ITEM1. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited, in thousands, except par value) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 2 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business A10 Networks, Inc. (together with our subsidiaries, the "Company", "we", "our" or "us") was incorporated in California in 2004 and reincorporated in Delaware in March 2014. We are headquartered in San Jose, California and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world including Asia and Europe. Our solutions enable enterprises, service providers, Web giants and government organizations to accelerate, secure and optimize the performance of their data center applications and networks. We currently offer three software based advanced application networking solutions. These are Application Delivery Controllers, or ADCs, to optimize data center performance; Carrier Grade Network Address Translation, or CGN, to provide address and protocol translation services for service provider networks; and a Distributed Denial of Service Threat Protection System, or TPS, for network-wide security protection. We deliver these solutions both on optimized hardware appliances and as virtual appliances across our Thunder Series and AX Series product families. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of A10 Networks, Inc., and our wholly owned subsidiaries. All inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. We had no comprehensive income (loss) other than our net income (loss), hence our comprehensive income (loss) is the same as the net income (loss) for all periods presented. Pursuant to the accounting guidance provided by Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") 220 Comprehensive Income, we did not present statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the periods presented . The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain notes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP can be condensed or omitted. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December31, 2015 or for any other interim period or for any other future year. The balance sheet as of December31, 2014 has been derived from audited financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December31, 2014 , which are included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 11, 2015. Use of Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Those estimates and assumptions affect revenue recognition and deferred revenue, allowance for doubtful accounts, sales return reserve, valuation of inventory, contingencies and litigation, and determination of fair value of stock-based compensation. These estimates are based on information available as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements; therefore, actual results could differ from management's estimates. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies There have been no changes to the significant accounting policies described in the 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K that have had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. 5 Concentration of Credit Risk and Significant Customers Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents and accounts receivable. Our cash and cash equivalents are invested in high-credit quality financial instruments with banks and financial institutions. Management believes that the financial institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents are financially sound and, accordingly, are subject to minimal credit risk. Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits provided on such deposits. Our accounts receivable are unsecured and represent amounts due to us based on contractual obligations of our customers. We mitigate credit risk in respect to accounts receivable by performing periodic credit evaluations of our customers to assess the probability of accounts receivable collection based on a number of factors, including past transaction experience with the customer, evaluation of their credit history, limiting the credit extended and review of the invoicing terms of the contract. We generally do not require our customers to provide collateral to support accounts receivable. Significant customers, including distribution channel partners and direct customers, are those which represent more than 10% of our total revenue for each period presented or our gross accounts receivable balance as of each respective balance sheet date. Revenue from our significant customers as a percentage of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 are as follows: * represents less than 10% of total revenue As of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 , no customer accounted for 10% or more of our total gross accounts receivable. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which provides new guidance on the recognition of revenue and states that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The updated standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The original effective date of this accounting standard was annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Deferral of the Effective Date , which deferred the effective date of the new revenue standard for periods beginning after December 15, 2016 to December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted but not earlier than the original effective date. This updated standard is effective for us on January 1, 2018. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial position or results of operations and method of adoption. In April 2015, the FASB issued 2015-03 Interest-Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30) Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs and during August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-15, Presentation and Subsequent Measurement of Debt Issuance Costs Associated with Line-of-Credit Arrangements , which clarifies the treatment of debt issuance costs from line-of-credit arrangements after adoption of ASU No. 2015-03. This accounting guidance requires debt issuance costs be presented on the balance sheet as a direct reduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability. ASU No. 2015-15 clarifies that the SEC staff would not object to an entity deferring and presenting debt issuance costs as an asset and subsequently amortizing the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings on the line-of-credit arrangement. ASU No. 2015-03 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. We believe the adoption of ASU No. 2015-15 will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 6 In July 2015, the FASB issuedASUNo. 2015-11 , Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory . Under this accounting guidance, inventory will be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value and other options that currently exist for market value will be eliminated. ASU No. 2015-11 defines net realizable value as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. No other changes were made to the current guidance on inventory measurement. This accounting guidance is effective for us in the first quarter of 2017. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this accounting standard update on our consolidated financial statements. There have been no other recent accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2014 filed with SEC on March 11, 2015, that are of significance or potential significance to us. 2. Fair Value Measurements Our financial instruments consist of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Cash equivalents, which include money market funds, are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair value as of the balance sheet dates, due to the short period of time to maturity. Accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities are stated at their carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short time to the expected receipt or payment. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at fair value. Our money market funds are classified within Level I of the fair value hierarchy, as these instruments are valued using quoted market prices. Specifically, we value our investments in money market securities based on quoted market prices in active markets. As of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 , we had no assets or liabilities classified within Level II or Level III and there were no transfers of instruments between Level I, Level II and Level III regarding fair value measurement. The following table sets forth the fair value of our financial assets measured on a recurring basis, by level, within the fair value hierarchy (in thousands): We did not have realized gains or losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 related to our financial assets. 3. Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations Components Inventory Components of inventory as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 are shown below (in thousands): 7 Property and Equipment, Net Components of property and equipment, net as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 are shown below (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization on our property and equipment for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 was $2.1 million and $2.6 million . Depreciation and amortization on our property and equipment for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 was $6.7 million and $7.2 million . Deferred Revenue Deferred revenue as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 consists of the following (in thousands): Accrued Liabilities Accrued liabilities as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 consists of the following (in thousands): 4. Credit Facility In September 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Royal Bank of Canada, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as lenders. The credit agreement provides a three -year, $35.0 million , revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum $10.0 million letter of credit facility. As of September30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, we have no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility. Our obligations under the credit agreement are secured by a security interest on substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. The credit agreement contains customary financial and non-financial covenants, and are described in Note 4, Credit Facility of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 8 the year ended December 31, 2014 filed with the SEC on March 11, 2015. We were in compliance with all financial and nonfinancial covenants under the revolving credit facility as of September30, 2015 . At our option, the revolving credit facility bears interest at a rate per annum based on either (i) an alternate base rate plus a margin ranging from 1.75% to 2.50% depending on our total leverage ratio, or (ii) the London interbank offered rate, or LIBOR, based on one, two, three or six month interest periods plus a margin ranging from 2.75% to 3.50% depending on our total leverage ratio. The alternate base rate is equal to the greatest of (i) the Royal Bank of Canada's prime rate, (ii) the federal funds rate plus a margin equal to 0.50% and (iii) the Eurodollar rate for a one month interest period plus a margin equal to 1.00% . In addition, we incurred $1.0 million of debt issuance costs that were directly attributable to the issuance of this revolving credit facility which will be amortized to interest expense over the three -year term of this credit facility. As of September30, 2015 , the unamortized debt issuance costs of $0.3 million were included within other long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are also required to pay quarterly facility fees of 0.45% per annum on the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility. 5. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be party or subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to intellectual property matters. Some of these proceedings involve claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. Accordingly, except as disclosed, we have not established reserves or ranges of possible loss related to these proceedings, as at this time in the proceedings, if any, the matters do not relate to a probable loss and/or amounts cannot be reasonably estimated. In November 2013, Parallel Networks, LLC ("Parallel Networks"), which we believe is a non-practicing patent holding company, filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, alleging that our AX and Thunder series products infringe two of their U.S. patents. In June 2015, we entered into a settlement agreement whereby we obtained a fully-paid up license and the case was dismissed. On January 29, 2015, the Company, the members of our Board of Directors, our Chief Financial Officer, and the underwriters of our March 21, 2014 Initial Public Offering ("IPO") were named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, captioned City of Warren Police and Fire Retirement System v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-276207. Several substantially identical lawsuits were subsequently filed in the same court, bringing the same claims against the same defendants, captioned Arkansas Teacher Retirement System v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-278575 (filed March 25, 2015) and Kaveny v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-279006 (filed April 6, 2015). On May 29, 2015, the aforementioned putative class actions were consolidated under the caption In re A10 Networks, Inc. Shareholder Litigation, 1-15-CV-276207. On June 30, 2015, plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Class Action Complaint. The Consolidated Complaint seeks to allege violations of the federal Securities Act of 1933 on behalf of a putative class consisting of purchasers of our common stock pursuant or traceable to the registration statement and prospectus for the initial public offering, and seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. On July 31, 2015, the defendants filed demurrers, which the plaintiffs opposed, and which are currently set for a hearing before the Superior Court on November 6, 2015. We intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits. On June 24, 2015, our directors and certain of our officers were named as defendants in a putative derivative lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, captioned Hornung v. Chen, et al., 1-15-CV-282286. We were also named as a nominal defendant. The complaint seeks to allege breaches of fiduciary duties and other related claims, arising out of allegations that our officers and directors caused us to infringe patents and intellectual property, improperly approved the settlement of prior litigation, failed to adopt and implement effective internal controls, and caused us to issue false and misleading statements in connection with our IPO. Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other equitable relief.We intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits. Lease Obligations and Other Commitments Commencing in 2012, we entered into an equipment financing arrangement with a financial institution whereby the financial institution purchases and leases to us, equipment (primarily computer and network-related) for use in our business. Amounts financed under the leases are accounted for as capital leases. We financed $0.8 million under the arrangement in 2012, which was fully repaid by December 2014. In March 2015, we entered into an agreement to lease an additional $0.3 9 million of equipment under this financing arrangement. The various leased equipment was delivered to us by the end of the third quarter of 2015. As of September30, 2015 , we had $0.3 million in outstanding capital lease obligations. We had no outstanding borrowings under this financing arrangement as of December 31, 2014. We lease various operating spaces in the United States, Asia, and Europe under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements that expire on various dates through February 2020. These arrangements require us to pay certain operating expenses, such as taxes, repairs, and insurance and contain renewal and escalation clauses. We recognize rent expense under these arrangements on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. We have entered into agreements with some of our customers and channel partners that contain indemnification provisions in the event of claims alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party. Other guarantees or indemnification arrangements include guarantees of product and service performance and standby letters of credit for lease facilities and corporate credit cards. We have not recorded a liability related to these indemnification and guarantee provisions and our guarantees and indemnification arrangements have not had any significant impact on our consolidated financial statements to date. 6. Equity Award Plans Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Equity Incentive Plan Our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan") was adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by our stockholders in March 2014. The 2014 Plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance units and performance shares to our employees, directors and consultants. As of December 31, 2014, we had 1,343,743 shares available for future grant. Annually, the shares authorized for the Plan will increase by the least of (i) 8,000,000 shares, (ii) 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock on the last day of our immediately preceding fiscal year, or (iii)such other amount as determined by our Board of Directors. On January1, 2015, the number of shares in the 2014 Plan was increased by 3,078,645 shares, which represents 5% of the prior year end's common stock outstanding. In addition, effective as of June10,2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and our stockholders approved, an amendment and restatement of our 2014Plan, which increased the number of shares available for issuance under the 2014 Plan by the number of shares available from the 2008 Plan that were canceled or otherwise forfeited or repurchased by us after March20,2014. A maximum of 8,310,566 shares may become available from the 2008 Plan for issuance under the 2014 Plan. As of September 30, 2015, 1,374,975 shares of our common stock were eligible to be added to the 2014 Plan share reserve in accordance with the amendment and restatement of the 2014Plan. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , we granted 408,500 stock options and 1,295,806 restricted stock units ("RSUs") under the 2014 Plan to our employees, directors and consultants. As of September30, 2015 , we have 3,532,415 shares available for future grant, excluding shares eligible to be added from the 2008 Plan. 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan The 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2014 Purchase Plan") was adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by our stockholders in March 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we had 1,031,316 shares available for future purchase. Under the provisions of the 2014 Purchase Plan, on the first day of each fiscal year, starting with January1, 2015, the number of shares in the reserve will increase by the lesser of (i) 3,500,000 shares, (ii) 1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, or (iii)such other amount as determined by our Board of Directors or other committee administering the 2014 Purchase Plan. In January 2015, we increased common shares reserved for future purchase by 615,729 shares in accordance with the provision of the 2014 Purchase Plan. The participants of the plan purchased 542,102 shares during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, and as of September30, 2015 , we have 1,104,943 shares available for future purchase. 10 Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation is based on the estimated fair value of awards, net of estimated forfeitures, and recognized over the requisite service period. The following is a summary of stock-based compensation for stock-based awards granted under the 2014 Plan, the 2008 Plan, and employee stock purchases under the 2014 Purchase Plan recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 (in thousands): At September30, 2015 , we had $26.6 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to stock options, unvested restricted stock units and 2014 Purchase Plan purchases. This unamortized stock-based compensation expense will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. Determination of Fair Value We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the grant date fair value of stock options and stock purchases and generally recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The determination of the fair value on the date of grant is affected by the estimated underlying common stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk-free interest rates, and expected dividends. The fair value of the stock options and employee stock purchases were determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and assumptions discussed below. Each of these inputs is subjective and generally requires significant judgment to determine. Expected Term . We estimate the expected life of options based on an analysis of our historical experience of employee exercise and post-vesting termination behavior considered in relation to the contractual life of the option. The expected term for the 2014 Purchase Plan is based on the term of the purchase period. Risk-Free Interest Rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for zero coupon U.S. Treasury notes with maturities approximately equal to the expected terms of stock options and shares to be issued under the 2014 Purchase Plan. Expected Volatility . Due to the limited trading history of our own common stock, we determined the share price volatility factor based on a combination of the historical volatility of our own common stock and the historical volatility of our peer group. Dividend Rate . The expected dividend was assumed to be zero as we have never paid dividends and have no current plans to do so. 11 We estimate the fair value of RSUs using the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date. Stock Option Activity The following table summarizes our stock option activity and related information as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 (in thousands, except for years and per share amounts): __________________________________________ (1) Common shares granted under the 2008 Plan and canceled after March 20, 2014 are reallocated to the 2014Plan's share reserve as they become available for issuance under the 2014Plan. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015, 469,440 shares of the canceled stock options were eligible to be reallocated to the 2014 Plan share reserve. As of September30, 2015 , the aggregate intrinsic value represents the excess of the closing price of our common stock of $5.99 over the exercise price of the outstanding in-the-money options. The following table provides information pertaining to our stock options for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 (in thousands, except weighted-average fair values): The estimated grant-date fair value of our stock options issued to employees was calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on the following assumptions: We did not grant any stock options during each of the three months ended September 30, 2015, and 2014. 12 Restricted Stock Units Activity We have granted time-based RSUs to our employees, directors and consultants and market performance-based restricted stock units ("MSUs") to certain company executives. Time-based Restricted Stock Units A summary of RSUs activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , is as follows (in thousands, except years and per share amounts): The aggregate intrinsic value is the amount that would have been received by the unit holders had all RSUs been vested and released on September30, 2015 . This amount will fluctuate based on the fair market value of our stock. Market Performance-based Restricted Stock Units We granted MSUs covering 540,000 shares and 40,000 shares of our common stock to certain company executives during 2014 and the nine months ended September 30, 2015, all of which were outstanding as of September30, 2015 . These MSUs will vest if the closing price of our common stock remains above certain predetermined target prices for 20 consecutive trading days within a 4 -year period following the award's grant date, subject to continued service by the award holder. The total aggregate intrinsic value for the MSUs granted was $3.5 million , which represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (calculated by multiplying our closing stock price on the last trading day of the period by the number of unvested MSUs) that would have been received by the award holders had all MSUs vested and been released on September30, 2015 . This amount will fluctuate based on the fair market value of our stock. No MSUs were vested or released during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Employee Stock Purchase Plan The fair value of the option component of the 2014 Purchase Plan shares was determined at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: 13 7. Net Income Per Share Available (Loss Attributable) To Common Stockholders The following table sets forth the computation of our basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders (in thousands, except per share data): The following weighted average outstanding shares of common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders for the periods presented because including them would have been antidilutive (in thousands): 8. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , which was primarily comprised of state and foreign taxes. We recorded income tax expense of $0.2 million and $0.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, which was primarily comprised of state and foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We believe it is more likely than not that our federal and state net deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. A valuation allowance is recorded for loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will not be realized.Accordingly, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our net deferred tax assets as of September30, 2015 . Due to past losses in the U.S., we have a full valuation allowance on the U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. We will continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net federal, state and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support recoverability of our deferred tax assets. 14 We had $2.4 million and $2.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of September30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. We do not anticipate a material change to our unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months. Unrecognized tax benefits may change during the next twelve months for items that arise in the ordinary course of business. 9. Segment Information Our chief operating decision maker is our Chief Executive Officer who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis, accompanied by disaggregated information about revenue by geographic region for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Accordingly, we have a single reportable segment and operating segment structure. The following table represents revenue by geographic areas based on customers' location, as determined by their ship to addresses (in thousands): No other country outside of the United States and Japan comprised 10% or greater of our revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . Geographical information relating to our long-lived assets which include property and equipment, net and intangible assets, net as of September30, 2015 and December 31, 2014 was as follows (in thousands): 10. Related-Party Transactions An affiliate of one of our significant stockholders is also acting as a reseller of our products. On May 27, 2015, the significant stockholder reduced its ownership of our common stock, and ceased to be a related party as its ownership percentage dropped to below 5% . During the nine months ended September 30, 2015, we recognized $2.2 million of revenue from this reseller while it was a related party. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, we recognized $0.8 million and $2.0 million of total revenue from this reseller. We had gross accounts receivable of $0.4 million from this reseller as of December 31, 2014. 15 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "would," "project," "plan" "expect," and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; our ability to attract and retain end-customers; loss or delay of expected purchases by our largest end-customers; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; our ability to expand our leadership position in next-generation application delivery and server load balancing solutions; continued growth in markets relating to network security; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to expand internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to achieve or maintain profitability while continuing to invest in our sales, marketing and research and development teams; variations in product mix or geographic locations of our sales; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; increased cost requirements of being a public company and future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets; the cost and potential outcomes of existing and future litigation; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; and future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking 16 statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of application networking technologies. Our solutions enable service providers, enterprises, Web giants and government organizations to accelerate, secure and optimize the performance of their data center applications and networks. Our products are built on our Advanced Core Operating System ("ACOS") platform of advanced network technologies, which is designed to enable our products to deliver substantially greater performance and security relative to prior generation application networking products. Our software based ACOS architecture also provides the flexibility that enables us to expand our business to offer additional products to solve a growing array of networking and security challenges arising from increased Internet cloud and mobile computing. We currently offer three software based advanced application networking solutions. These are Application Delivery Controllers ("ADCs") to optimize data center performance, Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN") to provide address and protocol translation services for service provider networks, and a Distributed Denial of Service Threat Protection System ("TPS") for network-wide security protection. We deliver these solutions both on optimized hardware appliances and as virtual appliances across our Thunder Series and AX Series product families. We derive revenue from sales of products and related support services. Product revenue is generated primarily by sales of hardware appliances with perpetual licenses to our embedded software solutions. We generate services revenue primarily from sales of maintenance and support contracts. Our end customers predominantly purchase maintenance and support in conjunction with purchases of our products. In addition, we also derive revenues from the sale of professional services. We sell our products globally to service providers and enterprises that depend on data center applications and networks to generate revenue and manage operations efficiently. Our end customers operate in a variety of industries, including telecommunications, technology, industrial, retail, financial, education and government. Since inception, our customer base has grown rapidly. As of September30, 2015 , we had sold products to approximately 4,500 customers across 73 countries. We sell substantially all of our solutions through our high-touch sales organization as well as distribution channel partners, including distributors, value added resellers and system integrators, and fulfill nearly all orders globally through such partners. We believe this sales approach allows us to obtain the benefits of channel distribution, such as expanding our market coverage, while still maintaining face-to-face relationships with our end-customers. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to original design manufacturers. We perform quality assurance and testing at our San Jose, Taiwan and Japan distribution centers, as well as at our manufacturers' locations. We warehouse and deliver our products out of our San Jose warehouse for the Americas. We outsource warehousing and delivery to third-party logistics providers for delivery in other regions. During the first nine months of 2015, 53% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 17% from Japan, and 30% from other geographical regions. During the first nine months of 2014, 48% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 27% from Japan and 25% from other geographical regions. Our enterprise customers accounted for 58% and 51% of our total revenue during the first nine months of 2015 and 2014. Our service provider customers accounted for 42% and 49% of our total revenue during the first nine months of 2015 and 2014. As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of large end-customers, including service provers, in any period. During the first nine months of 2015 and 2014, purchases from our ten largest end-customers accounted for approximately 30% and 41% of our total revenue. Sales to these large end-customers have typically been characterized by large but irregular purchases with long sales cycles. The timing of these purchases and the delivery of the purchased products is difficult to predict. As a consequence, any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases by, or deliveries to, our largest end customers could materially impact our revenue and operating results in any quarterly period. This may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and make them difficult to predict. We had $100.5 million of cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2015. Cash generated by operating activities was $7.6 million in the first nine months of 2015 compared to $13.5 million of cash used in operating activities in the same period of 2014. 17 We intend to continue to invest for long-term growth. We have invested in, and expect to continue to invest in, our product development efforts to deliver new products and additional features in our current products to address customer needs. In addition, we expect to continue to expand our global sales and marketing organizations, expand our distribution channel partner programs, and increase awareness of our solutions on a global basis. Additionally, we will be investing in general and administrative resources to meet the requirements to operate as a public company. Our investments in growth in these areas may affect short-term profitability. Results of Operations The following table provides a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 as derived from our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I Financial Information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (in thousands, except for percentages). 18 19 Revenue Our product revenue primarily consists of revenue from sales of our hardware appliances upon which our software is installed. Such software includes our ACOS software platform plus one of our ADC, CGN or TPS solutions. Purchase of a hardware appliance includes a perpetual license to the included software. We recognize product revenue at the time of shipment, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. As a percentage of revenue, our product revenue may vary from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing of orders and delivery of products, cyclicality and seasonality, changes in currency exchange rates and the impact of significant transactions with unique terms and conditions. We generate services revenue from sales of post contract support, or PCS, which is bundled with sales of products and professional services. We offer tiered PCS services under renewable, fee-based PCS contracts, primarily including technical support, hardware repair and replacement parts, and software upgrades on a when-and-if-released basis. We recognize services revenue ratably over the term of the PCS contract, which is typically one year, but can be up to five years. We expect our services revenue to increase in absolute dollars as we expand our installed base. A summary of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 is as follows (in thousands, except for percentages): Total revenue increased by $7.4 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014, which was comprised of a $3.4 million increase in product revenue and a $4.0 million increase in services revenue. Revenue from service 20 providers and enterprise customers increased 19% and 16%, respectively, in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Product revenue increased $3.4 million , or 11% , in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter in 2014 which is primarily attributable to increases from the United States, EMEA and Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, largely due to higher product revenue from service provider customers. These revenue increases were partially offset by lower product revenue from Japan. Japan's product revenue decreased in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 largely due to the impact of unfavorable currency exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar and lower product revenues. Services revenue increased $4.0 million , or 33% in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 primarily attributable to the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base as well as increases in our professional services revenue. Over 95% of our end-customers purchase one of our maintenance service products when purchasing our hardware products. During the third quarter of 2015, services revenue recognized from contracts existing prior to 2015 grew by 35% as compared to services revenue related to contracts existing prior to 2014. During the third quarter of 2015, $25.1 million , or 49% , of total revenue was generated from the United States, which represents a 23% growth compared to the third quarter of 2014. This increase was primarily attributable to increased product revenue from service provider customers as well as higher PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. We continue to see growth in our EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, excluding Japan. In the third quarter of 2015, total revenue from EMEA and Asia Pacific region, excluding Japan, increased 48% and 27% , respectively, compared to the third quarter of 2014, primarily due to our efforts to continue expanding our presence in these regions. During the third quarter of 2015, 17% , or $8.8 million of total revenue was generated from Japan, an 11% decrease compared to the third quarter of 2014, primarily due to lower product revenues. In addition, Japan's third quarter 2015 total revenue was also was more adversely impacted by the unfavorable currency exchange rate between the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar compared to the same period in 2014. Total revenue increased by $8.0 million in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period of 2014, which comprised of an $11.3 million increase in services revenue, partially offset by a $3.3 million decrease in product revenue. Revenue from enterprise customers increased 13% in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Revenue from service provider customers decreased 2% in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Product revenue decreased $3.3 million , or 3% , in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 which is primarily attributable to lower product revenue from Japan, partially offset by product revenue increases from the United States, EMEA and Asia Pacific, excluding Japan. In the first quarter of 2014, our product revenue from Japan was positively impacted by a higher backlog entering the quarter that resulted from strong demand for our products in Japan in the fourth quarter of 2013. In addition, Japan's total revenue was more adversely impacted by the unfavorable currency exchange rate between the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Services revenue increased $11.3 million , or 35% , in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, primarily attributable to the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base, as well as increases in our professional services revenue. Over 95% of our end-customers purchase one of our maintenance service products when purchasing our hardware products. During the first nine months of 2015, services revenue recognized from contracts existing prior to 2015 grew by 36% as compared to services revenue related to contracts existing prior to 2014. During the first nine months of 2015, 53% , or $75.4 million of total revenue was generated from the United States, which represents a 16% growth compared to the same period in 2014. This increase was primarily attributable to increased product revenue from service provider customers as well as higher PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. We continue to see growth in our EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, excluding Japan, with total revenue increasing 57% and 21% , respectively, in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period of 2014, primarily due to our efforts to continue expanding our presence in these regions. During the first nine months of 2015, 17% , or $24.2 million of total revenue was generated from Japan, a 32% decrease compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to lower product revenue as a result of the positive impact of higher backlog entering into 2014. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in services revenue. In addition, Japan's total revenue was more adversely impacted by the unfavorable currency exchange rate between the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar during the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. 21 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenue A summary of our cost of revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 is as follows (in thousands, except for percentages): Gross Margin Gross margin varies from period to period due to a variety of factors. These may include the mix of revenue from each of our regions, the mix of our products sold within a period, discounts provided to customers, inventory write-downs and foreign currency exchange rates. Our sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, however, in Japan they are denominated in the Japanese yen. Changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen will therefore affect our revenue and gross margin. Any of the factors noted above can generate either a positive or negative impact on gross margin as compared to another period. A summary of gross profit and gross margin for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 is as follows (in thousands, except for gross margins and percentages): 22 Products gross margin in the third quarter of 2015 increased by 3.5% compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to improved product mix and a decrease in inventory reserves, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable exchange rates of Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar. In the third quarter of 2014, our products gross margins was negatively impacted due to an increase in our inventory reserves as a result of our end-customers adopting our new Thunder Series. Products gross margin decreased 0.6% in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to the impact of unfavorable exchange rates of Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar partially offset by a favorable shift in our geographical sales mix. In addition, our products gross margins in the third quarter of 2015 were also negatively impacted by investments we made related to two Original Equipment Manufacturers ("OEM") opportunities. We experienced higher sales volumes from geographic regions with generally higher gross margins during the third quarter and the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same periods in 2014, which had a positive impact on our gross margins for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015. Our gross margin for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2015 was also impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange rates as the Japanese yen exchange rates continue to devalue against the U.S. dollar. We anticipate that our gross margin will continue to be impacted by these factors in subsequent periods. Services gross margin decreased 1.7% and 0.3% in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same periods in 2014, as a result of increases in cost of services partially offset by the growth in services revenue. The increase in cost of services was primarily a result of headcount increase as we continue to expand our services and support teams in anticipation of future growth in our installed base. Our services revenue recognized from our installed base with existing contracts prior to 2015 grew by 36% in the first nine months of 2015 compared to services revenue generated from contracts existing prior to 2014 during the first nine months of 2014. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and litigation. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs which consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. Personnel costs also include stock-based compensation and travel expenses. A summary of our operating expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 is as follows (in thousands, except for percentages): 23 Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses are our largest functional category of total operating expenses. These expenses primarily consist of personnel costs related to our employees engaged in sales and marketing activities. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of marketing programs, trade shows, consulting services, promotional materials, demonstration equipment, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.1 million , or 5% , in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014 primarily attributable to a $2.2 million increase in personnel related costs which includes a $1.0 million increase in sales commissions and a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation. The increase in personnel related costs was largely due to increased sales and marketing headcount and higher bonus attainment and sales commissions in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. This increase was partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in market development costs and a $0.4 million decrease in professional services and consultant fees. Sales and marketing expenses increased $5.1 million , or 7% , in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 primarily attributable to a $4.8 million increase in personnel related costs and a $0.7 million increase in company meeting expenses. The increase in personnel related costs, which includes a $2.3 million increase in sales commission and a $2.0 million increase in stock-based compensation was primarily attributable to increased sales and marketing headcount and higher bonus attainment and sales commissions in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. These increases were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in trade show and market development costs. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we increase the size of our sales and marketing organization and as we increase our sales presence in existing countries and expand into new countries. Research and Development Research and development efforts are focused on new product development and on developing additional functionality for our existing products. These expenses consist of personnel costs, and to a lesser extent, professional services, prototype materials, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. Research and development expenses increased $1.2 million , or 10% , in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014 primarily attributable to a $1.6 million increase in personnel related costs, which includes a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation. The increase in personnel related costs was primarily attributable to higher salaries and benefits. This increase was partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in depreciation expense as a result of certain assets being fully depreciated. Research and development expenses increased $6.1 million , or 17% , in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 primarily attributable to a $7.3 million increase in personnel related costs, which includes a $1.8 million increase in stock-based compensation. The increase in personnel related costs was primarily attributable to higher salaries and benefits. The increase in personnel related research and development expense was partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in professional services fees due to lower product certification related activities in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 and a $0.6 million decrease in depreciation expense as a result of certain assets being fully depreciated. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products. 24 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, professional services fees and office costs. General and administrative personnel costs include executive, finance, human resources, information technology, facility and legal (excluding litigation) related expenses. Professional fees consist primarily of fees for outside accounting, tax, legal, recruiting and other administrative services. General and administrative expenses increased $1.8 million , or 34% , for the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014 primarily attributable to a $0.7 million increase in personnel related costs and a $0.9 million increase in bad debt expense. General and administrative expenses increased $4.1 million , or 25% , for the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period of 2014 primarily attributable to a $2.4 million increase in personnel related costs, a $1.1 million increase in professional services cost and a $1.8 million increase in bad debt expense. These increases were partially offset by a $1.1 million decrease in sales and use tax expense largely as a result of the completion of several state sales tax registration processes and adjustments resulting from our reassessment of previously accrued sales and use tax liabilities. The increase in personnel related costs in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same periods in 2014 was a result of higher general and administrative headcount and increased salaries and benefits. Based on management's assessment and historical collection experience with our customer base, we recorded $0.6 million and $1.1 million of bad debt expense during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to a reduction of $0.3 million and $0.7 million in bad debt expense in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014. The increase in professional services fees in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 was primarily related to increased general legal and consultant fees in connection with scaling our organization to support increased business activity and costs associated with being a public company. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase slightly in the future. Litigation Expense Litigation expense is comprised of legal expenses incurred related to litigation and, if applicable, charges for litigation reserves. Litigation expenses consist of professional fees incurred in defending ourselves against litigation matters and are expensed as incurred when professional services are provided. The litigation reserve, if any, consists of accruals we make related to estimated losses in pending legal proceedings. Litigation reserves, if any, are adjusted as we change our estimates or make payments in damages or settlements. Litigation expense decreased $0.4 million for the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014 primarily attributable to a reduction in litigation related activities. Litigation expense increased $5.0 million in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period of 2014 primarily attributable to the $7.0 million litigation benefit recognized in the second quarter of 2014 following a settlement agreement in May 2014 with one of our legal services providers which resulted in the reduction of a previously accrued contractual liability, partially offset by a $2.0 million decrease in other litigation expense largely attributable to a reduction in litigation related activities in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $0.5 million in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to lower borrowing related activities in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. During the first nine months of 2014, we recorded a $0.3 million contingent payment due to a lender upon completion of our initial public offering and $0.2 million of interest expense related to our revolving credit facility. We completed our initial public offering and repaid the outstanding balance under our revolving credit facility in March 2014. 25 Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income and other income (expense), net, increased by $0.5 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to a $0.5 million decrease in foreign exchange losses. Interest income and other income (expense), net, increased by $0.5 million in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to a $0.4 million decrease in foreign exchange losses. The Japanese yen exchange rates declined significantly against the U.S dollar in 2014, which resulted in $0.5 million and $0.4 million in increased foreign exchange losses during the three and nine months of 2014. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded an income tax provision of $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, and $0.2 million and $0.7 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, which was primarily due to state and foreign taxes. We maintain a valuation allowance on federal and state deferred tax assets as we do not believe it is more likely than not that said deferred tax assets will be realized. We will continue to maintain a full valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of this allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September30, 2015 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $100.5 million , including $2.3 million held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries. We currently do not have any plans to repatriate our earnings from our foreign operations. As of September30, 2015 , we had working capital of $91.0 million , accumulated deficit of $214.5 million and total stockholders' equity of $80.9 million . We plan to continue to invest for long-term growth and anticipate our investment will continue to increase in absolute dollars. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and other available financial resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the introduction of new and enhanced product and service offerings and the continuing market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, as described in Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies , we are currently involved in ongoing litigation. Any adverse settlements or judgments in any litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash balances and cash flows in the period in which such events occur. Credit Agreement In September 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Royal Bank of Canada, acting as administrative agent and lender, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as lenders. The credit agreement provides a three-year $35.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum $10.0 million letter of credit facility. The revolving credit facility expires on September 30, 2016. Our obligations under the credit agreement are secured by a security interest on substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. The credit agreement contains customary non-financial covenants, and also requires us to comply with financial covenants. One financial covenant requires us to maintain a total leverage ratio, which is defined as total consolidated debt divided by adjusted EBITDA (defined as earnings before interest expense, tax expense, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation, adjusted for certain other non-cash or non-recurring income or expenses such as specified litigation settlement payments and litigation expenses) for the trailing four quarters. In addition, we must maintain a minimum amount of liquidity based on our unrestricted cash and availability under the revolving credit facility. The covenant requires us to maintain a minimum liquidity of $25.0 million provided that at least $10.0 million of such liquidity is comprised of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents. The credit agreement includes customary events of default which, if triggered, could result in the acceleration of our obligations under the revolving credit facility, the termination of any obligation by the lenders to extend further credit and the right of the lenders to exercise their remedies as a secured creditor and foreclose upon the collateral securing our obligation under the credit agreement; however, we also have the ability, in certain instances, to cure 26 non-compliance with the financial covenants through qualified equity contributions by certain holders of our equity. Currently, the agreement for our revolving credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. As of September30, 2015 , we had no outstanding balance on our credit facility and were in compliance with our covenants. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow related activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 (in thousands): Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash used in operating activities is driven primarily by sales of our products and, to a lesser extent, by up-front payments from end-customers under PCS contracts. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel-related expenditures, manufacturing costs, marketing and promotional expenses, costs related to our facilities and litigation expenses. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected principally by the extent to which we increase spending on personnel and sales and marketing activities, our working capital requirements, and litigation expenses. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , cash provided by operating activities was $7.6 million , consisting of a net loss of $32.7 million partially offset by non-cash charges of $21.6 million and an $18.7 million cash increase that resulted from changes in net operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges consisted of $13.2 million of stock-based compensation, $6.8 million of depreciation and amortization and $1.6 million in provision for doubtful accounts and sales returns allowance. The changes in our net operating assets and liabilities were primarily attributable to an $11.2 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $9.1 million increase in deferred revenue, and a $0.9 million decrease in inventory, partially offset by a $2.6 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to improved cash collection in 2015 and the timing of billing, as a higher portion of the December 31, 2014 outstanding accounts receivable were billed during the latter part of the quarter compared to the September30, 2015 outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in deferred revenue was due to timing of billings of support contracts, the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base and an increase in deferred professional services revenue. The decrease in inventory was primarily due to increased consumption of existing inventory. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was primarily attributable to a decrease in accrued compensation costs largely due to the payment of accrued commissions and bonuses and the timing of vendor invoice payments. During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, cash used in operating activities was $13.5 million, consisting of a net loss of $18.7 million and a $3.5 million increase in net operating assets and liabilities offset by non-cash charges of $8.7 million. Our non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation of $8.3 million and depreciation and amortization of $7.3 million, partially offset by a $7.0 million gain on settlement of a contractual liability. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to a $6.8 million decrease in accrued litigation expenses, a $6.3 million increase in inventory, a $4.8 million increase in accounts receivable and a $3.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by a $9.7 million increase in deferred revenue and an $8.2 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The decrease in accrued litigation costs was primarily due to the $5.0 million payment we made under the terms of a settlement of a contractual liability we reached with one of our legal services providers in May 2014 as well as lower litigation activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. The increase in inventory and prepaid and other current assets was attributable to our year over year business growth. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to increased billing and the timing of billing and cash collection, as a higher portion of the September 30, 2014 outstanding accounts receivable were billed during the latter part of the quarter compared to the December 31, 2013 outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was primarily attributable to increases in accrued compensation costs due to higher headcount and increases in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities 27 as a result of increased business activity levels and the timing of vendor invoice payments. The increase in deferred revenue was due to billings of support contracts with service terms that are typically one year. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, cash used in investing activities was $2.6 million and $5.4 million , primarily for purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , cash provided by financing activities was $3.5 million , consisting of proceeds from common stock issuance under our equity incentive plans, net of repurchases of common stock. During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, cash provided by financing activities was $105.2 million, primarily consisting of $121.0 million in net proceeds from the issuance of our common stock to outside investors in our IPO, and $4.4 million from the exercise of common stock options, net of repurchases of common stock, partially offset by a $20.0 million repayment of our revolving credit facility. Contractual Obligations In September 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Royal Bank of Canada, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as lenders. The credit agreement provides a three-year $35.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum $10.0 million letter of credit facility. We have no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility as of September30, 2015 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September30, 2015 , we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March11, 2015.ITEM1. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited, in thousands, except par value) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 2 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 A10 Networks, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business A10 Networks, Inc. (together with our subsidiaries, the "Company", "we", "our" or "us") was incorporated in California in 2004 and reincorporated in Delaware in March 2014. We are headquartered in San Jose, California and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world including Asia and Europe. Our solutions enable enterprises, service providers, Web giants and government organizations to accelerate, secure and optimize the performance of their data center applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. We offer four software based advanced application networking and network security solutions to address end-customer needs, including Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC") to optimize web and back-office application performance, Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN") to provide network address, protocol translation services for service provider networks, Threat Protection System ("TPS") for network-wide multi-vector DDoS security protection and Convergent Firewall ("CFW") for protecting data centers and mobile infrastructure, improving web security, and encrypting site-to-site communications. Our solutions are cloud-ready and available, in a variety of form factors such as optimized hardware appliances, in the cloud as software, and as virtual appliances. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of A10 Networks, Inc., and our wholly owned subsidiaries. All inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain notes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP can be condensed or omitted. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December31, 2016 or for any other interim period or for any other future year. The balance sheet as of December31, 2015 has been derived from audited financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December31, 2015 , which are included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 1, 2016. Use of Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Those estimates and assumptions affect revenue recognition and deferred revenue, allowance for doubtful accounts, sales return reserve, valuation of inventory, fair value of marketable securities, contingencies and litigation, acquisition purchase price allocations, and determination of fair value of stock-based compensation. These estimates are based on information available as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements; therefore, actual results could differ from management's estimates. 6 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Marketable securities We classify our investments in debt and equity securities as available-for-sale and record these investments at fair value. Investments with an original maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered cash equivalents, while all other investments are classified as current assets based on their availability for use in current operations. Unrealized gains or losses are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes, in stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are determined based on the specific identification method, and are reflected in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Realized gains or losses and charges for other-than-temporary declines in value, if any, on marketable securities are reported in interest income and other income (expense), net as incurred. We regularly review our investment portfolio to identify and evaluate investments that have indicators of possible impairment. Investments are considered impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. If the cost of an individual investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we will record an impairment charge and establish a new cost basis in the investment. Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition date fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business acquisition. Goodwill is not amortized for accounting purposes. We review goodwill for possible impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying amount may not be recoverable. For annual goodwill impairment test in all periods to date, we operate under one reporting unit and the fair value of our reporting unit has been determined by our enterprise value. When assessing goodwill for impairment, we first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. If, as a result of its qualitative assessment, it is more-likely-than-not (i.e.greater than 50% chance) that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required. Examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that a reporting unit's fair value is less than the carrying amount include macro-economic conditions such as (i) a significant adverse change in customer demand or a severe deterioration in the entity's operating environment and market conditions; (ii) entity-specific events such as increasing costs, declining financial performance, or loss of key personnel; or (iii) other events such as an expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or there will be a sustained decrease in the stock price on either an absolute basis or relative to peers. If it is determined, as a result of the qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we perform a two-step impairment test on goodwill. The first step requires the identification of the reporting units and comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with our carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than our carrying value, an indication of goodwill impairment exists for the reporting unit, and the second step of the impairment test is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. Under the second step, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. Intangible Assets Intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology, patent and acquired customer relationships resulting from acquisitions. Intangible assets are recorded at fair value and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which range from five to ten years. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We periodically evaluate whether changes have occurred that would render our long-lived assets not recoverable. If such circumstances arise, we use an estimate of the undiscounted value of expected future operating cash flows to determine whether the long-lived assets are impaired. If the aggregate undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, the resulting impairment charge to be recorded is calculated based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over the fair value of such assets, with the fair value generally determined based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. 7 There have been no other changes to the significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2016, that have had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. Concentration of Credit Risk and Significant Customers Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are invested in high-credit quality financial instruments maintained with banks and financial institutions. Management believes that the financial institutions that hold our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are financially sound and, accordingly, are subject to minimal credit risk. In some instances, deposits held with banks and financial institutions may be in excess of insured limits provided on such deposits. Our accounts receivable are unsecured and represent amounts due to us based on contractual obligations of our customers. We mitigate credit risk in respect to accounts receivable by performing periodic credit evaluations of our customers to assess the probability of accounts receivable collection based on a number of factors, including past transaction experience with the customer, evaluation of their credit history, limiting the credit extended and review of the invoicing terms of the contract. We generally do not require our customers to provide collateral to support accounts receivable. Significant customers, including distribution channel partners and direct customers, are those which represent more than 10% of our total revenue for each period presented or our gross accounts receivable balance as of each respective balance sheet date. Revenue from our significant customers as a percentage of our total revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: * represents less than 10% of total revenue As of June30, 2016 , one distribution channel partner (Customer A) accounted for 13% of our total gross accounts receivable. As of December31, 2015 , no customer accounted for 10% or more of our total gross accounts receivable. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (" FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This new accounting standard primarily requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets but record expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to current accounting. For lessors, the guidance modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our financial statements and the timing of adoption. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax effects of awards in the income statement when the awards vest or are settled, thus eliminating additional paid in capital pools. The guidance also allows for the employer to repurchase more of an employee's shares for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods of public entities beginning after December 15, 2016 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our financial statements and the timing of adoption. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which provides new guidance on the recognition of revenue and states that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised 8 goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The updated standard will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The original effective date of this accounting standard was annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Deferral of the Effective Date , which deferred the effective date of the new accounting standard. This updated standard is effective for us on January 1, 2018. In March and April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) and ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing. These accounting updates provide supplemental adoption guidance and clarification to ASC No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers . ASU No. 2016-08 and ASU No. 2016-10 must be adopted concurrently with the adoption of ASU 2014-09. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09, ASU No. 2016-08 and ASU No. 2016-10 on our financial statements and method of adoption. There have been no other recent accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements during the six months ended June 30, 2016 , as compared to the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 1, 2016, that are of significance or potential significance to us. 2. Marketable Securities and Fair Value Measurements Marketable Securities As of June30, 2016 , the estimated fair value of our marketable securities, classified as available for sale, are as follows (in thousands): For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , realized gains were immaterial. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 , we did not reclassify any amount to earnings from accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains or losses. We did not have any marketable securities as of December 31, 2015. The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our marketable securities as of June30, 2016 (in thousands): All available-for-sale securities have been classified as current, based on management's ability to use the funds in current operations. 9 Marketable securities in an unrealized loss position as of June30, 2016 consisted of the following (in thousands): As of June30, 2016 , no marketable securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than twelve months. We do not intend to sell any of these investments, and it is not more likely than not, that we would be required to sell these investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis, which may be at maturity. As a result, there is no other-than-temporary impairment for these marketable securities as of June30, 2016 . Fair Value Measurements Our financial instruments consist of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Our cash equivalents, which include money market funds, are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Marketable Securities are comprised of Certificates of Deposit, Corporate Securities, Commercial Paper and Asset-backed securities and we measure the fair value at the measurement date using the three-tier fair value hierarchy as described below. Accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities are stated at their carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short time to the expected receipt or payment. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair values. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or an exit price that would be paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Valuation techniques used to measure fair value must maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements as follows: Level I -Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date; Our Level I assets consist of highly liquid money market funds that are included in cash and cash equivalents. Level II -Inputs are observable, unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the related assets or liabilities; Our Level II assets consist of Certificates of Deposit, Corporate Securities, Commercial Paper and Asset-backed securities. Level III-Unobservable inputs that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities that are supported by little or no market data. We did not have any Level III assets or liabilities as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . 10 The following table sets forth the fair value of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on a recurring basis, by level, within the fair value hierarchy (in thousands): 3. Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations Components Inventory Components of inventory as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 are shown below (in thousands): Property and Equipment, net Components of property and equipment, net as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 are shown below (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization on our property and equipment for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $1.8 million and $2.2 million . Depreciation and amortization on our property and equipment for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $3.7 million and $4.7 million . 11 Goodwill and Intangible Assets Activity related to goodwill for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in thousands): Purchased intangible assets, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Total future amortization expense for purchased intangible assets that have finite lives, based on our existing intangible assets and their current estimated useful lives as of June 30, 2016, is as follows (in thousands): Accrued Liabilities Accrued liabilities as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 consists of the following (in thousands): 12 Deferred Revenue Deferred revenue as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 consists of the following (in thousands): 4. Credit Facility In September 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Royal Bank of Canada, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as lenders. The credit agreement provides a three -year, $35.0 million , revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum $10.0 million letter of credit facility. We are required to pay quarterly facility fees of 0.45% per annum on the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility. We had no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . The revolving credit facility expires on September 30, 2016. At our option, the revolving credit facility bears interest at a rate per annum based on either (i) an alternate base rate plus a margin ranging from 1.75% to 2.50% depending on our total leverage ratio, or (ii) the London interbank offered rate, or LIBOR, based on one, two, three or six month interest periods plus a margin ranging from 2.75% to 3.50% depending on our total leverage ratio. The alternate base rate is equal to the greatest of (i) the Royal Bank of Canada's prime rate, (ii) the federal funds rate plus a margin equal to 0.50% and (iii) the Eurodollar rate for a one month interest period plus a margin equal to 1.00% . Our obligations under the credit agreement are secured by a security interest on substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. The credit agreement contains customary financial and non-financial covenants, which are described in Note 4, Credit Facility of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2016. We were in compliance with all financial and nonfinancial covenants under the revolving credit facility as of June30, 2016 . 5. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be party or subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to intellectual property matters. Some of these proceedings involve claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. Accordingly, except as disclosed, we have not established reserves or ranges of possible loss related to these proceedings, as at this time in the proceedings, if any, the matters do not relate to a probable loss and/or amounts cannot be reasonably estimated. On January 29, 2015, the Company, the members of our Board of Directors, our Chief Financial Officer, and the underwriters of our March 21, 2014 initial public offering ("IPO") were named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit alleging violations of the federal Securities Act of 1933 filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, captioned City of Warren Police and Fire Retirement System v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-276207. Several substantially identical lawsuits were subsequently filed in the same court, bringing the same claims against the same defendants, captioned Arkansas Teacher Retirement System v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-278575 (filed March 25, 2015) and Kaveny v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-279006 (filed April 6, 2015). On May 29, 2015, the aforementioned putative class actions were consolidated under the caption In re A10 Networks, Inc. Shareholder Litigation, 1-15-CV-276207. On April 6, 2016, all parties entered into a memorandum of understanding reflecting an agreement in principle to settle all claims against all defendants asserted in the action and providing that we will make a payment of $0.8 million , net of 13 the expected proceeds of insurance policies.The parties subsequently executed a stipulation of settlement, dated June 30, 2016, and filed a motion with the Court seeking preliminary approval of the settlement, which is scheduled to be heard on September 9, 2016. The settlement releases all claims asserted against all defendants and includes the dismissal of all claims against all defendants without any liability or wrongdoing attributed to them. The settlement remains subject to stockholder notice, court approval and other customary conditions. On June 24, 2015, our directors and certain of our officers were named as defendants in a putative derivative lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, captioned Hornung v. Chen, et al. , 1-15-CV-282286 (the "Derivative Action"). We were also named as a nominal defendant.The complaint seeks to allege breaches of fiduciary duties and other related claims, arising out of allegations that our officers and directors caused us to infringe patents and intellectual property, improperly approved the settlement of prior litigation, failed to adopt and implement effective internal controls, and caused us to issue false and misleading statements in connection with our IPO. Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other equitable relief.On May 24, 2016, all parties entered into a memorandum of understanding reflecting an agreement in principle to settle all claims against all defendants asserted in the action, which provides that we implement certain corporate governance measures following final settlement approval. The settlement releases all claims asserted against all defendants and includes the dismissal of all claims against all defendants without any liability or wrongdoing attributed to them. The settlement remains subject to execution of a formal settlement agreement, court approval and other customary conditions. Lease Obligations and Other Commitments We lease various operating spaces in the United States, Asia, and Europe under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements that expire on various dates through February 2020. These arrangements require us to pay certain operating expenses, such as taxes, repairs, and insurance and contain renewal and escalation clauses. We recognize rent expense under these arrangements on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. We have entered into agreements with some of our customers and channel partners that contain indemnification provisions in the event of claims alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party. Other guarantees or indemnification arrangements include guarantees of product and service performance and standby letters of credit for lease facilities and corporate credit cards. We have not recorded a liability related to these indemnification and guarantee provisions and our guarantees and indemnification arrangements have not had any significant impact on our consolidated financial statements to date. 6. Appcito Acquisition On June 23, 2016, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Appcito, Inc. ("Appcito"), a privately held company engaged in providing a unified set of services for applications deployed on cloud infrastructure with facilities located in Santa Clara, California and Bangalore, India. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Appcito. This acquisition enhances our position as a comprehensive secure application services leader, and it represents a strategic step in our vision to help our customers become more secure and agile as they bridge traditional and cloud application environments. The total purchase consideration was $6.5 million . The fair value of the total purchase consideration was $6.3 million , which consisted of $5.0 million in cash consideration, less a holdback of $0.7 million to cover any indemnification claims within the next twelve months, and 227,404 unregistered shares of our common stock with an aggregated fair value of $1.3 million . We allocated the total purchase consideration to the net assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets, based on their respective fair values at the acquisition date. The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired (in thousands): 14 Developed technology is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of five years . Goodwill of $1.2 million was recognized as part of this acquisition is attributable primarily to the expected synergies and other benefits from this acquisition including adding to our existing momentum around providing secure application service solutions that meet several key demands like application analytics, visibility, and centralized control. The acquisition is expected to introduce secure application service offerings that span traditional data centers, private clouds, public clouds, and hybrid clouds. We incurred approximately $0.2 million in legal, accounting and other professional fees related to this acquisition, all of which were expensed during the three months ended June 30, 2016. We do not consider the acquisition of Appcito to be material to our results of operations or financial position, and therefore, we are not presenting pro-forma financial information of combined operations. This acquisition was taxable for income tax purposes, and the acquired assets have been recorded at fair value for both book and income tax purposes. Therefore, no deferred taxes have been recorded. The goodwill of $1.2 million and the $0.2 million of acquisition costs are capitalized and amortized over 15 years for income tax purposes. 7. Equity Award Plans Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Equity Incentive Plan Our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan") was adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by our stockholders in March 2014. The 2014 Plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance units and performance shares to our employees, directors and consultants. In addition, effective as of June10,2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and our stockholders approved, an amendment and restatement of our 2014Plan, which increased the number of shares available for issuance under the 2014 Plan by the number of shares available from the 2008 Plan that were canceled or otherwise forfeited or repurchased by us after March20,2014. A maximum of 8,310,566 shares may become available from the 2008 Plan for issuance under the 2014 Plan. As of December31, 2015 , we had 3,364,304 shares available for future grant. Annually, the shares authorized for the Plan will increase by the least of (i) 8,000,000 shares, (ii) 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock on the last day of our immediately preceding fiscal year, or (iii)such other amount as determined by our Board of Directors. On January1, 2016, the number of shares in the 2014 Plan was increased by 4,851,535 shares, which consisted of 3,211,211 shares, representing 5% of the prior year end's common stock outstanding and 1,640,324 shares for awards under our 2008 Plan that have been canceled, forfeited or repurchased by us between March 21, 2014 and December 31, 2015. During the six months ended June 30, 2016 , we granted 672,000 stock options and 3,604,561 stock awards under the 2014 Plan to our employees, directors and consultants. As of June30, 2016 , we had 4,553,483 shares available for future grant, excluding shares eligible to be added from the 2008 Plan as a result of awards that have been canceled, forfeited or repurchased by us after December 31, 2015. As of June30, 2016 , 189,016 shares of our common stock were eligible to be added to the 2014 Plan share reserve which represents awards under our 2008 Plan that have been canceled, forfeited or repurchased by us during the six months ended June 30, 2016 . 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan The 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2014 Purchase Plan") was adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by our stockholders in March 2014. As of December31, 2015 , we had 542,030 shares available for future purchase. Under the provisions of the 2014 Purchase Plan, on the first day of each fiscal year, starting with January1, 2015, the number of shares in the reserve will increase by the lesser of (i) 3,500,000 shares, (ii) 1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, or (iii)such other amount as determined by our Board of Directors or other committee administering the 2014 Purchase Plan. On January 1, 2016, the common shares reserved for future purchase was increased by 642,242 shares in accordance with the provisions of the 2014 Purchase Plan. In June 2016, our Board of Directors adopted, and our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2014 Purchase Plan which removed the automatic annual share increase and increased the number of shares available for issuance under the 2014 Purchase Plan by 4,000,000 shares. 15 The participants of the Purchase Plan purchased 552,554 shares during the first six months of 2016, and as of June30, 2016 , we had 631,718 shares available for future purchase, excluding the 4,000,000 shares added to the 2014 Purchase Plan in June 2016. Stock-based Compensation Stock-based compensation is based on the estimated fair value of awards, net of estimated forfeitures, and recognized over the requisite service period. The following is a summary of stock-based compensation for stock-based awards granted under the 2014 Plan, the 2008 Plan, and employee stock purchases under the 2014 Purchase Plan recognized during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): __________________________________________ (1) Our 2014 Purchase Plan generally provides twenty-four month offering periods which consist of four six-month purchase periods. We record periodic stock-based compensation expense based on estimated contributions determined at the beginning of each offering period and record purchase adjustments for the difference between the estimated and actual contributions at the end of each purchase period. For the purchase period ended on May 20, 2016, the actual contributions were significantly lower than the estimated contributions due to lower stock price which caused more employees to reach the maximum purchase contribution limit and therefore resulted in negative stock-based compensation expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. As of June30, 2016 , we had $33.1 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to stock options, unvested stock awards and 2014 Purchase Plan purchases. This unamortized stock-based compensation expense will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. Determination of Fair Value We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the grant date fair value of stock options and stock purchases and generally recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The determination of the fair value on the date of grant is affected by the estimated underlying common stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk-free interest rates, and expected dividends. The fair value of the stock options and employee stock purchases were determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and assumptions discussed below. Each of these inputs is subjective and generally requires significant judgment to determine. Expected Term . We estimate the expected life of options based on an analysis of our historical experience of employee exercise and post-vesting termination behavior considered in relation to the contractual life of the option. The expected term for the 2014 Purchase Plan is based on the term of the purchase period. 16 Risk-Free Interest Rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for zero coupon U.S. Treasury notes with maturities approximately equal to the expected terms of stock options and shares to be issued under the 2014 Purchase Plan. Expected Volatility . Due to the limited trading history of our own common stock, we determined the share price volatility factor based on a combination of the historical volatility of our own common stock and the historical volatility of our peer group. Dividend Rate . The expected dividend was assumed to be zero as we have never paid dividends and have no current plans to do so. The grant date fair value of RSUs that have time or performance based vesting conditions contingent upon meeting financial and operational targets are equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date. We estimate the grant date fair value of RSUs that have market based vesting conditions using the Monte Carlo simulation method. Stock Option Activity The following table summarizes our stock option activity and related information as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2016 (in thousands, except for years and per share amounts): __________________________________________ (1) Common shares granted under the 2008 Plan and canceled after March 20, 2014, are reallocated to the 2014Plan's share reserve as they become available for issuance under the 2014Plan. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, 189,016 shares related to canceled stock options were eligible to be reallocated to the 2014 Plan share reserve. As of June30, 2016 , the aggregate intrinsic value represents the excess of the closing price of our common stock of $6.47 over the exercise price of the outstanding in-the-money options. The following table provides information pertaining to our stock options for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands, except weighted-average fair values): 17 The estimated grant-date fair value of our stock options issued to employees was calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on the following assumptions: Stock Award Activity We have granted time-based stock awards ("RSUs") to our employees, directors and consultants and performance-based stock awards ("PSUs") and market performance-based stock awards ("MSUs") to certain company executives. A summary of stock award activities, including RSUs, PSUs and MSUs during the six months ended June 30, 2016 , is as follows (in thousands, except years and per share amounts): During the six months ended June 30, 2016 , we granted 547,000 PSUs with performance-based conditions contingent upon meeting certain financial and operational targets. These PSUs are also subject to service condition vesting requirements with 25% of the eligible PSUs scheduled to vest on each of the first, second, third and fourth year anniversary of the PSU grant date, subject to continued service by the award holder. We granted MSUs covering 540,000 shares and 40,000 shares of our common stock to certain company executives during 2014 and 2015, all of which were outstanding as of June30, 2016 . These MSUs will vest if the closing price of our common stock remains above certain predetermined target prices for 20 consecutive trading days within a 4 -year period following the award's grant date, subject to continued service by the award holder. The aggregate intrinsic value is the amount that would have been received by the unit holders had all RSUs been vested and released on June30, 2016 . This amount will fluctuate based on the fair market value of our stock. As of June 30, 2016, the aggregated intrinsic value for RSUs, MSUs and PSUs was $41.1 million with a weighted-average remaining service period of 2.8 years. 18 Employee Stock Purchase Plan The fair value of the option component of the 2014 Purchase Plan awards was estimated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions: 8. Net Loss Per Share The following table sets forth the computation of our basic and diluted net loss per share (in thousands, except per share data): The following weighted-average outstanding shares of common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share for the periods presented because including them would have been antidilutive (in thousands): 9. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , which primarily consisted of foreign taxes. We recorded income tax expense of $0.3 million for each of the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , which primarily consisted of foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. 19 We believe it is more likely than not that our federal and state net deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. A valuation allowance is recorded for loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will not be realized. Accordingly, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our U.S. and certain foreign net deferred tax assets as of June 30, 2016. We will continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net federal, state and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support recoverability of our deferred tax assets. We had $2.9 million and $2.6 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . We do not anticipate a material change to our unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months. Unrecognized tax benefits may change during the next twelve months for items that arise in the ordinary course of business. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized as part of our income tax provision in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. All tax years remain open and are subject to future examinations by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are not under examination in any jurisdiction. 10. Segment Information Our chief operating decision maker is our Chief Executive Officer who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis, accompanied by disaggregated information about revenue by geographic region for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Accordingly, we have a single reportable segment and operating segment structure. The following table represents revenue by geographic areas based on customers' location, as determined by their ship to addresses (in thousands): No other geographic regions comprised 10% or greater of our revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 . Geographical information relating to our long-lived assets which include property and equipment, net and intangible assets, net as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 was as follows (in thousands): 11. Related-Party Transactions An affiliate of one of our significant stockholders is also acting as a reseller of our products. On May 27, 2015, the significant stockholder reduced its ownership of our common stock, and ceased to be a related party. During the three and six 20 months ended June 30, 2015 , we recognized $1.6 million and $3.0 million of revenue from this reseller while it was a related party. 21 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "would," "project," "plan" "expect," and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; our ability to attract and retain end-customers; loss or delay of expected purchases by our largest end-customers; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; our ability to expand our leadership position in next-generation application delivery and server load balancing solutions; continued growth in markets relating to network security; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to expand internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to achieve or maintain profitability while continuing to invest in our sales, marketing and research and development teams; variations in product mix or geographic locations of our sales; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; increased cost requirements of being a public company and future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets; the cost and potential outcomes of existing and future litigation; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; and future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking 22 statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of application networking and network security technologies. Our solutions enable enterprises, service providers, Web giants and government organizations to accelerate, secure and optimize the performance of their data center applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. Our products are built on our Advanced Core Operating System ("ACOS") platform of advanced network technologies, which is designed to enable our products to deliver substantially greater performance and security relative to prior generation application networking products. Our software based ACOS architecture also provides the flexibility that enables us to expand our business to offer additional products to solve a growing array of networking and security challenges arising from increased Internet cloud and mobile computing. We currently offer four software based advanced application networking and network security solutions to address end-customer needs, including Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC") to optimize web and back-office application performance, Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN") to provide network address and protocol translation services for service provider networks, Threat Protection System ("TPS") for network-wide multi-vector DDoS security protection, and Convergent Firewall ("CFW") for protecting data centers and mobile infrastructure, improving web security, and encrypting site-to-site communications. Our solutions are cloud-ready and available in a variety of form factors as optimized hardware appliances, in the cloud as software, and as virtual appliances. We derive revenue from sales of products and related support services. Products revenue is generated primarily by sales of hardware appliances with perpetual licenses to our embedded software solutions. We also derive revenue from licenses to, or subscription services for, software-only versions of our solutions. We generate services revenue primarily from sales of maintenance and support contracts. Our end-customers predominantly purchase maintenance and support in conjunction with purchases of our products. In addition, we also derive revenues from the sale of professional services. We sell our products globally to service providers and enterprises that depend on data center applications and networks to generate revenue and manage operations efficiently. Our end-customers operate in a variety of industries, including telecommunications, technology, industrial, retail, financial, education and government. Since inception, our customer base has grown rapidly. As of June30, 2016 , we had sold products to approximately 5,000 customers across 79 countries. We sell substantially all of our solutions through our high-touch sales organization as well as distribution channel partners, including distributors, value added resellers and system integrators, and fulfill nearly all orders globally through such partners. We believe this sales approach allows us to obtain the benefits of channel distribution, such as expanding our market coverage, while still maintaining face-to-face relationships with our end-customers. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to original design manufacturers. We perform quality assurance and testing at our San Jose, Taiwan and Japan distribution centers, as well as at our manufacturers' locations. During the first half of 2016, 55% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 20% from Japan, and 25% from other geographical regions. During the first half of 2015, 55% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 17% from Japan, and 28% from other geographical regions. Our enterprise customers accounted for 58% and 57% of our total revenue during the first half of 2016 and 2015. Our service provider customers accounted for 42% and 43% of our total revenue during the first half of 2016 and 2015. As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of large end-customers, including service providers, in any period. Purchases from our ten largest end-customers accounted for approximately 35% of our total revenue in each of the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. Sales to these large end-customers have typically been characterized by large but irregular purchases with long sales cycles. The timing of these purchases and the delivery of the purchased products are difficult to predict. As a consequence, any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases, by or deliveries to, our largest end customers could materially impact our revenue and operating results in any quarterly period. This may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and make them difficult to predict. As of June30, 2016 , we had $28.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $85.1 million of marketable securities. Cash provided by operating activities was $19.3 million in the first half of 2016 compared to $3.5 million of cash provided by operating activities in the same period of 2015. 23 We intend to continue to invest for long-term growth. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in our product development efforts to deliver new products and additional features in our current products to address customer needs. In addition, we expect to continue to expand our global sales and marketing organizations, expand our distribution channel partner programs and increase awareness of our solutions on a global basis. Additionally we will be investing in general and administrative resources to meet the requirements to operate as a public company. Our investments in growth in these areas may affect our short-term profitability. Results of Operations The following table provides a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 as derived from our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I. Financial Information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (in thousands, except for percentages). 24 25 Revenue Our products revenue primarily consists of revenue from sales of our hardware appliances upon which our software is installed. Such software includes our ACOS software platform plus one of our ADC, CGN, TPS or CFW solutions. Purchase of a hardware appliance includes a perpetual license to the included software. We recognize products revenue at the time of shipment, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. As a percentage of revenue, our products revenue may vary from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing of orders and delivery of products, cyclicality and seasonality, changes in currency exchange rates and the impact of significant transactions with unique terms and conditions. We generate services revenue from sales of post contract support, or PCS, which is bundled with sales of products and professional services. We offer tiered PCS services under renewable, fee-based PCS contracts, primarily including technical support, hardware repair and replacement parts, and software upgrades on a when-and-if-released basis. We recognize services revenue ratably over the term of the PCS contract, which is typically one year, but can be up to five years. A summary of our total revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in thousands, except for percentages): Total revenue increased by $9.6 million , or 20% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. This increase was comprised of a $5.5 million increase in products revenue and a $4.1 million increase in services revenue. Revenue from enterprise and service provider customers increased 16% and 26%, respectively, in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. 26 Total revenue increased by $19.4 million , or 21% , in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015. This increase was comprised of an $11.3 million increase in products revenue and an $8.1 million increase in services revenue. Revenue from enterprise and service provider customers increased 22% and 20%, respectively, in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015. Products revenue increased by $5.5 million , or 16% , and $11.3 million , or 18% , in the second quarter and the first half of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015. These increases were primarily attributable to revenue increases from the United States, Japan and Asia Pacific, excluding Japan partially offset by lower products revenue from EMEA. Services revenue increased by $4.1 million , or 29% , and $8.1 million , or 29% ,in the second quarter and the first half of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015. These increases were primarily attributable to the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base as well as increases in our professional services revenue. Over 95% of our end-customers purchase one of our maintenance service products when purchasing our hardware products. During the first half of 2016, services revenue recognized from our installed base with contracts existing prior to 2016 grew by 29% as compared to the first half of 2015 services revenue from our installed base with contracts existing prior to 2015. During the second quarter of 2016, $31.3 million , or 55% , of total revenue was generated from the United States, which represents a 14% increase compared to the second quarter of 2015. During the first half of 2016, $60.9 million , or 55% , of total revenue was generated from the United States, which represents a 21% growth compared to the first half of 2015. These increases were primarily attributable to an overall increase in products revenue as well as higher PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the second quarter of 2016, $11.0 million , or 19% , of total revenue was generated from Japan, which represents a 66% increase compared to the second quarter of 2015, primarily due to higher products revenue from enterprise customers and to a less extent an increase in PCS sales in connection with the increased customer base. During the first half of 2016, $21.8 million , or 19% , of total revenue was generated from Japan, which represents a 41% increase compared to the first half of 2015. This increase was primarily due to an overall increase in products revenue as well as higher PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. In addition, total revenue from Japan during the second quarter and the first half of 2016 was increased by $0.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively, due to favorable currency exchange rates between the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar compared to the same periods in 2015. Total revenues from Asia Pacific regions, excluding Japan, increased by $2.2 million , or 40% and $4.3 million , or 43% in the second quarter and the first half of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015. These increases were primarily due to significant increase in products revenue resulting from our efforts to continue expanding our presence in these regions as well as higher PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. Total revenue from EMEA decreased by $1.0 million , or 14% , and $2.1 million or 16% , in the second quarter and the first half of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015. These decreases were primarily attributable to decreases in products revenue resulting from reduced sales and weakness in the EMEA market overall partially offset by an increase in services revenue. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenue Cost of products revenue is primarily comprised of cost of third-party manufacturing services and cost of component inventory for the hardware component of our products. Cost of products revenue also includes warehouse personnel costs, shipping costs, inventory write-downs, certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs, and expenses associated with logistics and quality control. Cost of services revenue is primarily comprised of personnel costs for our technical support, training and professional service teams. Cost of services revenue also includes the costs of inventory used to provide hardware replacements to end- customers under PCS contracts and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. 27 A summary of our cost of revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in thousands, except for percentages): Gross Margin Gross margin may vary and be unpredictable from period to period due to a variety of factors. These may include the mix of revenue from each of our regions, the mix of our products sold within a period, discounts provided to customers, inventory write-downs and international currency exchange rates. Our sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, however, in Japan they are denominated in Japanese yen. Changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen will therefore affect our revenue and gross margin. Any of the factors noted above can generate either a positive or negative impact on gross margin as compared to another period. A summary of gross profit and gross margin for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in thousands, except for gross margins and percentages): 28 Products gross margin decreased by 1.6% and 1.2% in the second quarter and first half of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to changes in product and geographic mix and an increase in inventory reserves. Services gross margins increased by 2.0% and 1.8% in the second quarter and the first half of 2016 compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily as a result of growth in services revenue partially offset by the impact of increases in cost of services. During the first half of 2016, services revenue recognized from our installed base with contracts existing prior to 2016 grew by 29% compared to the first half of 2015 for services revenue recognized from our installed base with contracts existing prior to 2015. The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in personnel related costs and professional services costs as a result of our investment to expand our service and support group in anticipation of future growth in our installed base. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and litigation expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs which consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. Personnel costs also include stock-based compensation and travel expenses. We expect personnel costs to increase in absolute dollars as we hire new employees to continue to grow our business. A summary of our operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in thousands, except for percentages): Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses are our largest functional category of total operating expenses. These expenses primarily consist of personnel costs related to our employees engaged in sales and marketing activities. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of marketing programs, trade shows, consulting services, promotional materials, demonstration equipment, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.8 million , or 7% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015, primarily attributable to a $2.0 million increase in personnel related costs and a $0.6 million increase in company meeting expenses. These increases were partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in professional services costs due to lower contractors and recruiting costs and a $0.3 million decrease in depreciation expense as a result of fully depreciated assets. The increase in personnel related costs was primarily attributable to increased salaries, benefits and sales commissions in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation due to a favorable expense adjustment related to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2014 Purchase Plan"). 29 Sales and marketing expenses increased by $4.1 million , or 8% , in the first half of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015, primarily attributable to a $4.8 million increase in personnel related costs and a $0.8 million increase in company meeting expenses. These increases were partially offset by a $0.8 million decrease in professional services costs due to lower contractors and recruiting costs and a $0.7 million decrease in depreciation expense as a result of fully depreciated assets. The increase in personnel related costs was primarily attributable to increased salaries, benefits and sales commissions in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we increase the size of our sales and marketing organization and as we increase our sales presence in existing countries and expand into new countries. Research and Development Research and development efforts are focused on new product development and on developing additional functionality for our existing products. These expenses consist of personnel costs, and to a lesser extent, prototype materials, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. Research and development expense increased by $0.8 million , or 6% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. This increase was primarily attributable to a $0.7 million increase in personnel related costs. The increase in personnel related costs in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 was primarily attributable to an increase in research and development headcount, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation due to a favorable expense adjustment related to our 2014 Purchase Plan. Research and development expense increased by $1.3 million , or 5% , in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015. This increase was primarily attributable to a $1.4 million increase in personnel related costs. The increase in personnel related costs in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015 was primarily attributable to an increase in research and development headcount, partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation due to a favorable expense adjustment related to our 2014 Purchase Plan. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, professional fees and office costs. General and administrative personnel costs include executive, finance, human resources, information technology, facility and legal (excluding litigation) related expenses. Professional fees consist primarily of fees for outside accounting, tax, legal, recruiting and other administrative services. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.5 million , or 27% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. This increase was primarily attributable to a $0.9 million increase in personnel related costs, a $0.7 million increase in bad debt expense and a $0.5 million increase in sales and use tax expense, partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in professional services fees. The increase in personnel related costs in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 was primarily a result of increased salaries and benefits. The decrease in professional services fees was primarily due to a decrease in contractor and consultant headcount in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 and a decrease in legal fees. In the second quarter of 2015, we completed several state sales tax registration processes and adjustments resulting from our reassessment of previously accrued sales and use tax liabilities which resulted in significantly lower sales and used tax for the period. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.7 million , or 5% , in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015. This increase was primarily attributable to a $1.7 million increase in personnel related costs and a $0.6 million increase in sales and use tax expense due to the above mentioned factors, partially offset by a $1.5 million decrease in professional services fees. 30 The increase in personnel related costs in the first half of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 was primarily a result of higher headcount and increased salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in the future. Litigation and Settlement Expense Litigation and settlement expense is comprised of legal expenses incurred related to litigation and, if applicable, charges for litigation reserves. Litigation expenses consist of professional fees incurred in defending ourselves against litigation matters and are expensed as incurred when professional services are provided. The litigation reserve, if any, consists of accruals we make related to estimated losses in pending legal proceedings. Litigation reserves, if any, are adjusted as we change our estimates or make payments in damages or settlements. Litigation and settlement expense decreased by $0.8 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015, primarily attributable to less litigation related activity following the settlement of the class action lawsuit in the first quarter of 2016, and the settlement of the derivative lawsuit in the second quarter of 2016. Litigation expense increased by $0.5 million in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015, primarily attributable to litigation activity leading up and relating to the settlement of the class action and derivative lawsuits in the first half of 2016. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income and other income (expense), net, increased by $1.2 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015, primarily consisting of a $1.1 million increase in foreign exchange gains and a $0.1 million increase in interest income. Interest income and other income (expense), net, increased by $1.4 million in the first half of 2016 compared to the first half of 2015, primarily consisting of a $1.2 million increase in foreign exchange gains and a $0.3 million increase in interest income. The increase in foreign exchange gains was primarily due to the impact of favorable currency exchange rates of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar during the second quarter and the first half of 2016. The higher interest income was primarily attributable to increases in our cash, cash equivalents and our investment in marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $0.1 million and $0.2 million , respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , which primarily consisted of foreign taxes. We recorded income tax expense of $0.3 million for each of the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , which primarily consisted of foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We currently maintain a valuation allowance on federal and state deferred tax assets, and we will continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of this allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June30, 2016 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $28.6 million , including $3.2 million held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, and $85.1 million of marketable securities. We currently do not have any plans to repatriate our earnings from our foreign operations. As of June30, 2016 , we had working capital of $84.8 million , accumulated deficit of $236.3 million and total stockholders' equity of $79.0 million . As of June30, 2016 , our contractual obligations consist of capital leases, operating leases, purchase commitments, and other contractual obligations. There have been no material changes to these obligations outside the ordinary course of business during the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to the contractual obligations disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as described in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2016. 31 We plan to continue to invest for long-term growth and anticipate our investment will continue to increase in absolute dollars. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and other available financial resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the introduction of new and enhanced product and service offerings and the continuing market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, as described in Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies in the condensed consolidated financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we are currently, or may be from time to time be, involved in ongoing litigation. Any adverse settlements or judgments in any litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash balances and cash flows in the period in which such events occur. Credit Agreement In September 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Royal Bank of Canada, acting as administrative agent and lender, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as lenders. The credit agreement provides a three-year $35.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum $10.0 million letter of credit facility. The revolving credit facility expires on September 30, 2016. As of June30, 2016 , we had no outstanding balance on our credit facility and were in compliance with our covenants. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow related activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash provided by operating activities is driven primarily by sales of our products, management of working capital investments and, to a lesser extent, by up-front payments from end-customers under PCS contracts. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel-related expenditures, manufacturing costs, marketing and promotional expenses, costs related to our facilities and litigation expenses. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected principally by the extent to which we increase spending on personnel and sales and marketing activities, our working capital requirements, and litigation expenses. During the six months ended June 30, 2016 , cash provided by operating activities was $19.3 million , consisting of a net loss of $14.5 million , non-cash charges of $13.2 million and a $20.5 million cash increase resulting from changes in net operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges consisted primarily of $8.5 million in stock-based compensation expense, $3.7 million in depreciation and amortization expenses and $1.1 million in other non-cash items. The changes in our net operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to a $17.5 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $3.0 million increase in deferred revenue and a $2.8 million decrease in inventory, partially offset by a $2.3 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and a $0.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. The decrease in accounts receivable in the first half of 2016 was primarily due to improved cash collections. The increase in deferred revenue was due to increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was largely due to the timing of vendor invoice payments. During the six months ended June 30, 2015, cash provided by operating activities was $3.5 million , consisting of a net loss of $23.7 million ; non-cash charges of $13.6 million and a $13.6 million cash increase resulting from changes in net 32 operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges consisted primarily $8.6 million of stock-based compensation expense and $4.7 million in depreciation and amortization. The changes in our net operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to an $8.6 million increase in deferred revenue, a $7.7 million decrease in accounts receivable and a $1.9 million decrease in inventory, partially offset by a $4.7 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The increase in deferred revenue was due to timing of billings of support contracts and the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to improved cash collection in 2015 and the timing of billing as a higher portion of the December 31, 2014 outstanding accounts receivable were billed during the latter part of the quarter compared to the June 30, 2015 outstanding accounts receivable. The decrease in inventory was primarily due to increased consumption of existing inventory. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was primarily attributable to a decrease in accrued compensation costs largely due to the payment of accrued commissions and bonuses and the timing of vendor invoice payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2016 , cash used in investing activities was $92.0 million , primarily consisting of $85.1 million of net purchases in marketable securities, $4.4 million payment for the acquisition of Appcito Inc. and $2.6 million for purchases of property and equipment. During the six months ended June 30, 2015, cash used in investing activities was $1.8 million , primarily for purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, cash provided by financing activities was $3.3 million and $2.6 million , respectively, primarily consisting of proceeds from common stock issuance under our equity incentive plans, net of repurchases of common stock. Contractual Obligations In September 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Royal Bank of Canada, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as lenders. The credit agreement provides a three-year $35.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum $10.0 million letter of credit facility. We have no outstanding borrowings under this credit facility as of June30, 2016 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June30, 2016 , we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the underlying net tangible and intangible assets. We review goodwill for possible impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying amount may not be recoverable. Triggering events that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in customer demand or a severe deterioration in our operating environment and market conditions. These changes could affect the value of goodwill or a significant decrease in expected cash flows. We perform the impairment testing by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit 33 is less than our carrying amount. If we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than our carrying amount, we perform a two-step impairment test. The first step requires the identification of the reporting units and comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with our carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than our carrying value, an indication of goodwill impairment exists for the reporting unit and the second step of the impairment test is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. Under the second step, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology, patent and acquired customer relationships resulting from acquisitions. Intangible assets are recorded at fair value and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which ranges from five to ten years. We review long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment periodically or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Triggering events that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, significant underperformance relative to estimated results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. We determine the recoverability of intangible assets based on estimated undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds the assets fair market value. There were no other significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2016.ITEM 1. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited, in thousands, except par value) See accompanying notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts) See accompanying notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 A10 Networks, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business A10 Networks, Inc. (together with our subsidiaries, the "Company", "we", "our" or "us") was incorporated in California in 2004 and reincorporated in Delaware in March 2014. We are headquartered in San Jose, California and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world including Asia and Europe. Our solutions enable enterprises, service providers, Web giants and government organizations to accelerate, secure and optimize the performance of their data center applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. We offer four software based advanced application networking and network security solutions to address end-customer needs, including Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC") to optimize web and back-office application performance, Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN") to provide network address, protocol translation services for service provider networks, Threat Protection System ("TPS") for network-wide multi-vector DDoS security protection and Convergent Firewall ("CFW") for protecting data centers and mobile infrastructure, improving web security, and encrypting site-to-site communications. Our solutions are cloud-ready and available, in a variety of form factors such as optimized hardware appliances, in the cloud as software, and as virtual appliances. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of A10 Networks, Inc., and our wholly owned subsidiaries. All inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain notes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP can be condensed or omitted. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December31, 2016 or for any other interim period or for any other future year. The balance sheet as of December31, 2015 has been derived from audited financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December31, 2015 , which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Use of Estimates The preparation of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Those estimates and assumptions affect revenue recognition and deferred revenue, allowance for doubtful accounts, sales return reserve, valuation of inventory, fair value of marketable securities, contingencies and litigation, acquisition purchase price allocations, accrued liabilities, and determination of fair value of stock-based compensation. These estimates are based on information available as of the date of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements; therefore, actual results could differ from management's estimates. Significant Accounting Policies The following are changes to our significant accounting policies as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Marketable securities We classify our investments in debt and equity securities as available-for-sale and record these investments at fair value. Investments with an original maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered cash equivalents, while all other investments are classified as current assets (included in marketable securities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets) based on their availability for use in current operations. Unrealized gains or losses are reported in accumulated 6 other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, in stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are determined based on the specific identification method, and are reflected in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Realized gains or losses and charges for other-than-temporary declines in value, if any, on marketable securities are reported in interest income and other income (expense), net as incurred. We regularly review our investment portfolio to identify and evaluate investments that have indicators of possible impairment. Investments are considered impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. If the cost of an individual investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and our intent and ability to hold the investment. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we will record an impairment charge and establish a new cost basis in the investment. Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition date fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business acquisition. Goodwill is not amortized for accounting purposes. We review goodwill for possible impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying amount may not be recoverable. For annual goodwill impairment test in all periods to date, we operate under one reporting unit and the fair value of our reporting unit has been determined by our enterprise value. When assessing goodwill for impairment, we first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. If, as a result of its qualitative assessment, it is more-likely-than-not (i.e.greater than 50% chance) that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required. Examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that a reporting unit's fair value is less than the carrying amount include macro-economic conditions such as (i) a significant adverse change in customer demand or a severe deterioration in the entity's operating environment and market conditions; (ii) entity-specific events such as increasing costs, declining financial performance, or loss of key personnel; or (iii) other events such as an expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or there will be a sustained decrease in the stock price on either an absolute basis or relative to peers. If it is determined, as a result of the qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we perform a two-step impairment test on goodwill. The first step requires the identification of the reporting units and comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with our carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than our carrying value, an indication of goodwill impairment exists for the reporting unit, and the second step of the impairment test is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. Under the second step, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. Intangible Assets Intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology, patents and acquired customer relationships resulting from acquisitions. Intangible assets are recorded at fair value and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which range from five to ten years. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We periodically evaluate whether changes have occurred that would render our long-lived assets not recoverable. If such circumstances arise, we use an estimate of the undiscounted value of expected future operating cash flows to determine whether the long-lived assets are impaired. If the aggregate undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, the resulting impairment charge to be recorded is calculated based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over the fair value of such assets, with the fair value generally determined based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. Concentration of Credit Risk and Significant Customers Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are invested in high-credit quality financial instruments maintained with banks and financial institutions. Management believes that the financial institutions that hold our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are financially sound and, accordingly, are subject to 7 minimal credit risk. In some instances, deposits held with banks and financial institutions may be in excess of insured limits provided on such deposits. Our accounts receivable are unsecured and represent amounts due to us based on contractual obligations of our customers. We mitigate credit risk in respect to accounts receivable by performing periodic credit evaluations of our customers to assess the probability of accounts receivable collection based on a number of factors, including past transaction experience with the customer, evaluation of their credit history, limiting the credit extended and review of the invoicing terms of the contract. Significant customers, including distribution channel partners and direct customers, are those which represent more than 10% of our total revenue for each period presented or our gross accounts receivable balance as of each respective balance sheet date. Revenue from our significant customers as a percentage of our total revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: * represents less than 10% of total revenue As of September30, 2016 , one distribution channel partner (Customer A) accounted for 22% of our total gross accounts receivable. As of December31, 2015 , no customer accounted for 10% or more of our total gross accounts receivable. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (" FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This new accounting standard primarily requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets but record expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to current accounting. For lessors, the guidance modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax effects of awards in the income statement when the awards vest or are settled, thus eliminating additional paid in capital pools. The guidance also allows for the employer to repurchase more of an employee's shares for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods of public entities beginning after December 15, 2016 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our financial statements. In March and April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) and ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing. These accounting updates provide supplemental adoption guidance and clarification to ASC No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers . ASU No. 2016-08 and ASU No. 2016-10 must be adopted concurrently with the adoption of ASU 2014-09. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU No. 2014-09, ASU No. 2016-08 and ASU No. 2016-10 on our financial statements. There have been no other recent accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 , that are of significance or potential significance to us. 8 2. Marketable Securities and Fair Value Measurements Marketable Securities As of September30, 2016 , the estimated fair value of our marketable securities, classified as available for sale, are as follows (in thousands): For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , realized gains were immaterial. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , we did not reclassify any amount to earnings from accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains or losses. We did not have any marketable securities as of December 31, 2015. The following table summarizes the cost and estimated fair value of marketable securities based on contractual maturities as of September30, 2016 (in thousands): All available-for-sale securities have been classified as current, based on management's ability to use the funds in current operations. Marketable securities in an unrealized loss position as of September30, 2016 consisted of the following (in thousands): As of September30, 2016 , no marketable securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than twelve months. We do not intend to sell any of these investments, and it is not more likely than not that we would be required to sell these investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis, which may be at maturity. As a result, there is no other-than-temporary impairment for these marketable securities as of September30, 2016 . Fair Value Measurements Our financial instruments consist of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities are stated at their carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short time to the expected receipt or payment. Our cash equivalents, which include money market funds, are measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Marketable securities are comprised of 9 certificates of deposit, corporate securities, commercial paper and asset-backed securities and we measure the fair value at the measurement date using the three-tier fair value hierarchy as described below. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair values. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or an exit price that would be paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Valuation techniques used to measure fair value must maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The authoritative guidance for measuring fair value establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements as follows: Level 1 - Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Our Level 1 assets consist of highly liquid money market funds that are included in cash and cash equivalents. Level 2 - Inputs are observable, quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the related assets or liabilities; Our Level 2 assets consist of certificates of deposit, corporate securities, commercial paper and asset-backed securities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities that are supported by little or no market data. We did not have any Level 3 assets or liabilities as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . There were no transfers between Level1 and Level2 fair value measurement categories during thethree and nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The following is a summary of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands): 10 3. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statement Details Inventory Property and Equipment, net Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $1.9 million and $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $5.6 million and $6.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Activity related to goodwill for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 is as follows (in thousands): Purchased intangible assets, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets was $0.3 million and $33,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $0.4 million and $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over a remaining weighted average useful life of 4.9 years. 11 Total future amortization expense for purchased intangible assets as of September30, 2016 is as follows (in thousands): Accrued Liabilities Deferred Revenue 4. Credit Facilities In September 2013, we entered into a credit agreement (the "2013 Credit Facility") with Royal Bank of Canada, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as lenders. The 2013 Credit Facility provided a three -year, $35.0 million , revolving credit facility, which included a maximum $10.0 million letter of credit facility. We were required to pay quarterly facility fees of 0.45% per annum on the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility. We had no outstanding borrowings under the 2013 Credit Facility as of December31, 2015 or for any period during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The 2013 Credit Facility expired on September 30, 2016. In November 2016, we entered into a loan and security agreement (the "2016 Credit Facility") with Silicon Valley Bank ("SVB"), as lender. The 2016 Credit Facility provides a three -year, $25.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum of $25.0 million letter of credit facility. The loans bear interest, at our option, at (i) the prime rate reported in The Wall Street Journal, minus 0.50% or (ii) a LIBOR rate determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility, plus 2.50% . We are required to pay customary closing fees, commitment fees and letter of credit fees for a facility of this size and type. 12 Our obligations under the 2016 Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding our intellectual property. The 2016 Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants. Through the date of this filing, we had no outstanding balance under the 2016 Credit Facility and were in compliance with all facility covenants. 5. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be party or subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to intellectual property matters. Some of these proceedings involve claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. Accordingly, except as disclosed, we have not established reserves or ranges of possible loss related to these proceedings, as at this time in the proceedings, if any, the matters do not relate to a probable loss and/or amounts cannot be reasonably estimated. On January 29, 2015, the Company, the members of our Board of Directors, our Chief Financial Officer, and the underwriters of our March 21, 2014 initial public offering ("IPO") were named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit alleging violations of the federal Securities Act of 1933 filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, captioned City of Warren Police and Fire Retirement System v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-276207. Several substantially identical lawsuits were subsequently filed in the same court, bringing the same claims against the same defendants, captioned Arkansas Teacher Retirement System v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-278575 (filed March 25, 2015) and Kaveny v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-279006 (filed April 6, 2015). On May 29, 2015, the aforementioned putative class actions were consolidated under the caption In re A10 Networks, Inc. Shareholder Litigation, 1-15-CV-276207. On April 6, 2016, all parties entered into a memorandum of understanding reflecting an agreement in principle to settle all claims against all defendants asserted in the action and providing that we will make a payment of $0.8 million , net of the expected proceeds of insurance policies.The parties subsequently executed a stipulation of settlement, dated June 30, 2016, and filed a motion with the Court seeking preliminary approval of the settlement, which was granted on September 15, 2016. The payment was made in October 2016. The final fairness hearing is scheduled to be heard on January 13, 2017. The settlement releases all claims asserted against all defendants and includes the dismissal of all claims against all defendants without any liability or wrongdoing attributed to them. The settlement remains subject to stockholder notice, final court approval and other customary conditions. On June 24, 2015, our directors and certain of our officers were named as defendants in a putative derivative lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, captioned Hornung v. Chen, et al. , 1-15-CV-282286 (the "Derivative Action"). We were also named as a nominal defendant.The complaint seeks to allege breaches of fiduciary duties and other related claims, arising out of allegations that our officers and directors caused us to infringe patents and intellectual property, improperly approved the settlement of prior litigation, failed to adopt and implement effective internal controls, and caused us to issue false and misleading statements in connection with our IPO. Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other equitable relief.On May 24, 2016, all parties entered into a memorandum of understanding reflecting an agreement in principle to settle all claims against all defendants asserted in the action, which provides that we implement certain corporate governance measures following final settlement approval.The parties subsequently executed a stipulation of settlement, dated August 26, 2016, and filed a motion with the Court seeking preliminary approval of the settlement. On October 20, 2016, the Court issued an order continuing to November 18, 2016 on the motion for preliminary approval, to allow plaintiff to submit certain supplemental briefing.The settlement releases all claims asserted against all defendants and includes the dismissal of all claims against all defendants without any liability or wrongdoing attributed to them. The settlement remains subject to execution of a formal settlement agreement, court approval and other customary conditions. Lease Obligations and Other Commitments We lease various operating spaces in the United States, Asia, and Europe under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements that expire on various dates through April 2020 . These arrangements require us to pay certain operating expenses, such as taxes, repairs, and insurance and contain renewal and escalation clauses. We recognize rent expense under these arrangements on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. We have entered into agreements with some of our customers and channel partners that contain indemnification provisions in the event of claims alleging that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party. Other 13 guarantees or indemnification arrangements include guarantees of product and service performance and standby letters of credit for lease facilities and corporate credit cards. We have not recorded a liability related to the indemnification and guarantee provisions and our guarantees and indemnification arrangements have not had any significant impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to date. 6. Appcito Acquisition On June 23, 2016, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Appcito, Inc. ("Appcito"), a privately held company engaged in providing a unified set of services for applications deployed on cloud infrastructure with facilities located in Santa Clara, California and Bangalore, India. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Appcito. This acquisition enhances our position as a comprehensive secure application services leader, and it represents a strategic step in our vision to help our customers become more secure and agile as they bridge traditional and cloud application environments. The total purchase consideration was $6.5 million . The fair value of the total purchase consideration was $6.3 million , which consisted of $5.0 million in cash consideration, less a holdback of $0.7 million to cover any indemnification claims within twelve months of the acquisition date, and 227,404 unregistered shares of our common stock with an aggregated fair value of $1.3 million . We allocated the total purchase consideration to the net assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets, based on their respective fair values at the acquisition date. The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the assets acquired (in thousands): Developed technology is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of five years . Goodwill of $1.2 million was recognized as part of this acquisition is attributable primarily to the expected synergies and other benefits from this acquisition including adding to our existing momentum around providing secure application service solutions that meet several key demands like application analytics, visibility, and centralized control. The acquisition is expected to introduce secure application service offerings that span traditional data centers, private clouds, public clouds, and hybrid clouds. We incurred approximately $0.2 million in legal, accounting and other professional fees related to this acquisition, all of which were expensed during the three months ended June 30, 2016. We do not consider the acquisition of Appcito to be material to our results of operations or financial position, and therefore, we are not presenting pro-forma financial information of the combined operations. This acquisition was taxable for income tax purposes, and the acquired assets have been recorded at fair value for both book and income tax purposes. Therefore, no deferred taxes have been recorded. The goodwill of $1.2 million and the $0.2 million of acquisition costs are capitalized and amortized over 15 years for income tax purposes. 7. Equity Incentive Plans and Stock-Based Compensation Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Equity Incentive Plan Our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan") was adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by our stockholders in March 2014. The 2014 Plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance units and performance shares to our employees, directors and consultants. In addition, effective as of June10,2015, our Board of Directors adopted and our stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of our 2014Plan, which increased the number of shares available for issuance under the 2014 Plan by the number of shares available from the 2008 Stock Plan (the "2008 Plan") that were or may in the future be canceled or otherwise forfeited or repurchased by us after March20,2014. A maximum of 8,310,566 shares may become available from the 2008 Plan for issuance under the 2014 Plan. 14 As of December31, 2015 , we had 3,364,304 shares available for future grant. Annually, the shares authorized for the 2014 Plan will increase by the least of (i) 8,000,000 shares, (ii) 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock on the last day of our immediately preceding fiscal year, or (iii)such other amount as determined by our Board of Directors. On January1, 2016, the number of shares in the 2014 Plan was increased by 4,851,535 shares, which consisted of 3,211,211 shares, representing 5% of the prior year end's common stock outstanding and 1,640,324 shares for awards under our 2008 Plan that had been canceled, forfeited or repurchased by us between March 21, 2014 and December 31, 2015. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , we granted 672,000 stock options and 4,272,388 stock awards under the 2014 Plan to our employees, directors and consultants. As of September30, 2016 , we had 4,312,753 shares available for future grant, excluding shares eligible to be added from the 2008 Plan as a result of awards that have been canceled, forfeited or repurchased by us after December 31, 2015. As of September30, 2016 , 243,546 shares of our common stock had been added to the 2014 Plan share reserve which represents awards under our 2008 Plan that have been canceled, forfeited or repurchased by us during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan The 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2014 Purchase Plan") was adopted by our Board of Directors and approved by our stockholders in March 2014. As of December31, 2015 , we had 542,030 shares available for future purchase. Under the provisions of the 2014 Purchase Plan, on the first day of each fiscal year, starting with January1, 2015, the number of shares in the reserve will increase by the lesser of (i) 3,500,000 shares, (ii) 1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, or (iii)such other amount as determined by our Board of Directors or other committee administering the 2014 Purchase Plan. On January 1, 2016, the common shares reserved for future purchase was increased by 642,242 shares in accordance with the provisions of the 2014 Purchase Plan. In June 2016, our Board of Directors adopted, and our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2014 Purchase Plan which removed the automatic annual share increase and increased the number of shares available for issuance under the 2014 Purchase Plan by 4,000,000 shares. Stock-Based Compensation The following tables summarize the allocation of the stock-based compensation expense (in thousands): __________________________________________ 15 (1) Our 2014 Purchase Plan provides twenty-four month offering periods which consist of four six-month purchase periods. We record periodic stock-based compensation expense based on estimated contributions determined at the beginning of each offering period and record purchase adjustments for the difference between the estimated and actual contributions at the end of each purchase period. For the purchase period ended on May 20, 2016, the actual contributions were significantly lower than the estimated contributions due to lower stock price which caused more employees to reach the maximum purchase contribution limit. As of September30, 2016 , we had $30.9 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to unvested stock-based awards which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years. Determination of Fair Value We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the grant date fair value of stock options and stock purchases and generally recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The determination of the fair value on the date of grant is affected by the estimated underlying common stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, risk-free interest rates, and expected dividends. The fair value of the stock options and employee stock purchases were determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and assumptions discussed below. Each of these inputs is subjective and generally requires significant judgment to determine. Expected Term . We estimate the expected life of options based on an analysis of our historical experience of employee exercise and post-vesting termination behavior considered in relation to the contractual life of the option. The expected term for the 2014 Purchase Plan is based on the term of the purchase period. Risk-Free Interest Rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for zero coupon U.S. Treasury notes with maturities approximately equal to the expected terms of stock options and shares to be issued under the 2014 Purchase Plan. Expected Volatility . Due to the limited trading history of our own common stock, we determined the share price volatility factor based on a combination of the historical volatility of our own common stock and the historical volatility of our peer group. Dividend Rate . The expected dividend was assumed to be zero as we have never paid dividends and have no current plans to do so. The grant date fair value of RSUs that have time or performance based vesting conditions contingent upon meeting financial and operational targets are equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date. We estimate the grant date fair value of RSUs that have market based vesting conditions using the Monte Carlo simulation method. Stock Options The following tables summarize our stock option activities and related information (in thousands, except for years and per share amounts): 16 __________________________________________ (1) Common shares granted under the 2008 Plan and canceled after March 20, 2014 are reallocated to the 2014Plan's share reserve as they become available for issuance under the 2014Plan. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, 244 of the canceled stock options were reallocated to the 2014 Plan. As of September30, 2016 , the aggregate intrinsic value represents the excess of the closing price of our common stock of $10.69 over the exercise price of the outstanding in-the-money options. We did not grant stock options during the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 . The estimated grant-date fair value of our stock options issued to employees was calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on the following assumptions: Stock Awards We have granted time-based stock awards ("RSUs") to our employees, directors and consultants and performance-based stock awards ("PSUs") and market performance-based stock awards ("MSUs") to certain company executives. 17 The following table summarizes our stock award activities (in thousands): In February 2016, we granted 547,000 PSUs with certain financial and operational targets. These PSUs are also subject to service condition vesting requirements with 25% of the eligible PSUs scheduled to vest on each of the first, second, third and fourth year anniversary of the PSU grant date. We granted MSUs covering 540,000 shares and 40,000 shares of our common stock to certain executives during 2014 and 2015, all of which were outstanding as of September30, 2016 . These MSUs will vest if the closing price of our common stock remains above certain predetermined target prices for 20 consecutive trading days within a 4 -year period following the award's grant date, subject to continued service by the award holder. The aggregate intrinsic value is the amount that would have been received by the unit holders had all RSUs been vested and released on September30, 2016 . This amount will fluctuate based on the fair market value of our stock. As of September30, 2016 , the aggregated intrinsic value for RSUs, MSUs and PSUs was $64.6 million with a weighted-average remaining service period of 2.8 years. Employee Stock Purchase Plan Employees purchased 552,554 shares at an average price of $3.88 and 542,102 shares at an average price of $3.45 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. As of September30, 2016 , 4,317,184 shares were available for future issuance under the 2014 Purchase Plan. The intrinsic value of shares purchased during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $1.3 million and $1.4 million , respectively. The intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the market value on the date of purchase and the purchase price of the shares. We did not grant employee stock purchase rights during the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 . The fair value of the employee stock purchase rights granted was estimated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions: Stock Repurchase Program On October 27, 2016, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $20.0 million of our common stock over the next 12 months.Under the repurchase authorization, shares may be purchased from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means. The repurchase authorization may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. 18 8. Net Loss Per Share The following table sets forth the computation of our basic and diluted net loss per share (in thousands, except per share data): The following weighted-average outstanding shares of common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share because including them would have been antidilutive (in thousands): 9. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $0.6 million and $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, which primarily consisted of foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We believe it is more likely than not that our federal and state net deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. A valuation allowance is recorded for loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will not be realized. Accordingly, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our U.S. and certain foreign net deferred tax assets as of September30, 2016 . We will continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net federal, state and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support recoverability of our deferred tax assets. We had $3.0 million and $2.6 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . We do not anticipate a material change to our unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months. Unrecognized tax benefits may change during the next twelve months for items that arise in the ordinary course of business. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized as part of our income tax provision in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. All tax years remain open and are subject to future examinations by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are not under examination in any jurisdiction. 19 10. Segment Information Our chief operating decision maker is our Chief Executive Officer who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis, accompanied by disaggregated information about revenue by geographic region for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Accordingly, we have a single reportable segment and operating segment. The following table represents revenue by geographic areas based on customers' location, as determined by their ship to addresses (in thousands): No other geographic regions comprised 10% or greater of our revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 . Our property and equipment, net is primarily located in the United States. No other geographic regions comprise 10% or more of our property and equipment, net as of September30, 2016 . 11. Related-Party Transactions An affiliate of one of our significant stockholders is also acting as a reseller of our products. On May 27, 2015, the significant stockholder reduced its ownership of our common stock, and ceased to be a related party. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , we recognized $2.2 million of revenue from this reseller while it was a related party. 20 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "would," "project," "plan" "expect," and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; our ability to attract and retain end-customers; loss or delay of expected purchases by our largest end-customers; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; our ability to expand our leadership position in next-generation application delivery and server load balancing solutions; continued growth in markets relating to network security; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to expand internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to achieve or maintain profitability while continuing to invest in our sales, marketing and research and development teams; variations in product mix or geographic locations of our sales; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; increased cost requirements of being a public company and future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets; the cost and potential outcomes of existing and future litigation; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; and future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking 21 statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of application networking and network security technologies. Our solutions enable enterprises, service providers, Web giants and government organizations to accelerate, secure and optimize the performance of their data center applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. Our products are built on our Advanced Core Operating System ("ACOS") platform of advanced network technologies, which is designed to enable our products to deliver substantially greater performance and security relative to prior generation application networking products. Our software based ACOS architecture also provides the flexibility that enables us to expand our business to offer additional products to solve a growing array of networking and security challenges arising from increased Internet cloud and mobile computing. We currently offer four software based advanced application networking and network security solutions to address end-customer needs, including Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC") to optimize web and back-office application performance, Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN") to provide network address and protocol translation services for service provider networks, Threat Protection System ("TPS") for network-wide multi-vector DDoS security protection, and Convergent Firewall ("CFW") for protecting data centers and mobile infrastructure, improving web security, and encrypting site-to-site communications. Our solutions are cloud-ready and available in a variety of form factors as optimized hardware appliances, in the cloud as software, and as virtual appliances. We derive revenue from sales of products and related support services. Products revenue is generated primarily by sales of hardware appliances with perpetual licenses to our embedded software solutions. We also derive revenue from licenses to, or subscription services for, software-only versions of our solutions. We generate services revenue primarily from sales of maintenance and support contracts. Our end-customers predominantly purchase maintenance and support in conjunction with purchases of our products. In addition, we also derive revenues from the sale of professional services. We sell our products globally to service providers and enterprises that depend on data center applications and networks to generate revenue and manage operations efficiently. Our end-customers operate in a variety of industries, including telecommunications, technology, industrial, retail, financial, education and government. Since inception, our customer base has grown rapidly. As of September30, 2016 , we had sold products to approximately 5,000 customers across 82 countries. We sell substantially all of our solutions through our high-touch sales organization as well as distribution channel partners, including distributors, value added resellers and system integrators, and fulfill nearly all orders globally through such partners. We believe this sales approach allows us to obtain the benefits of channel distribution, such as expanding our market coverage, while still maintaining face-to-face relationships with our end-customers. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to original design manufacturers. We perform quality assurance and testing at our San Jose, Taiwan and Japan distribution centers, as well as at our manufacturers' locations. During the first nine months of 2016, 51% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 23% from Japan, and 26% from other geographical regions. During the first nine months of 2015, 53% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 17% from Japan, and 30% from other geographical regions. Our enterprise customers accounted for 57% and 58% of our total revenue during the first nine months of 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our service provider customers accounted for 43% and 42% of our total revenue during the first nine months of 2016 and 2015, respectively. As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of large end-customers, including service providers, in any period. Purchases from our ten largest end-customers accounted for 38% and 30% of our total revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Sales to these large end-customers have typically been characterized by large but irregular purchases with long sales cycles. The timing of these purchases and the delivery of the purchased products are difficult to predict. As a consequence, any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases, by or deliveries to, our largest end customers could materially impact our revenue and operating results in any quarterly period. This may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and make them difficult to predict. As of September30, 2016 , we had $31.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and $85.4 million of marketable securities. Cash provided by operating activities was $21.8 million during the first nine months of 2016 as compared to $7.6 million during the same period of 2015. 22 We intend to continue to invest for long-term growth. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in our product development efforts to deliver new products and additional features in our current products to address customer needs. In addition, we expect to continue to expand our global sales and marketing organizations, expand our distribution channel partner programs and increase awareness of our solutions on a global basis. Additionally, we will be investing in general and administrative resources to meet the requirements to operate as a public company. Our investments in growth in these areas may affect our short-term profitability. Results of Operations The following table provides a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 (dollars in thousands): 23 Revenue Our products revenue primarily consists of revenue from sales of our hardware appliances upon which our software is installed. Such software includes our ACOS software platform plus one of our ADC, CGN, TPS, and CFW solutions. Purchase of a hardware appliance includes a perpetual license to the included software. We recognize products revenue at the time of shipment, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. As a percentage of revenue, our products revenue may vary from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing of orders and delivery of products, cyclicality and seasonality, changes in currency exchange rates and the impact of significant transactions with unique terms and conditions. We generate services revenue from sales of post contract support, or PCS, which is bundled with sales of products and professional services. We offer tiered PCS services under renewable, fee-based PCS contracts, primarily including technical support, hardware repair and replacement parts, and software upgrades on a when-and-if-released basis. We recognize services revenue ratably over the term of the PCS contract, which is typically one year, but can be up to five years. 24 A summary of our total revenue is as follows (dollars in thousands): Total revenue increased by $4.3 million , or 8% , during the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. This increase was comprised of a $0.3 million increase in products revenue and a $4.0 million increase in services revenue. Total revenue increased primarily due to higher revenue from enterprise and service provider customers by 3% and 17% , respectively, during the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015 . Total revenue increased by $23.7 million , or 17% , during the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. This increase was comprised of an $11.6 million increase in products revenue and a $12.1 million increase in services revenue. Revenue from enterprise and service provider customers increased 15% and 19% , respectively, during the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. Products revenue increased by $0.3 million , or 1% , during the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015 as the products revenue increase from Japan was partially offset by the products revenue decrease from the United States, Asia Pacific excluding Japan and EMEA. Products revenue increased by $11.6 million , or 12% , during the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to the products revenue increase from Japan, the United States and Asia Pacific excluding Japan, partially offset by the products revenue decrease from EMEA. 25 Services revenue increased by $4.0 million , or 25% , and $12.1 million , or 28% , during the third quarter and the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same periods of 2015. The services revenue increase during the third quarter and the first nine months of 2016 was primarily due to the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base as well as an increase in our professional services revenue. During the first nine months of 2016 , services revenue recognized from our installed customer base with contracts existing prior to 2016 grew by 31% as compared to the same period of 2015 . During the third quarter of 2016, $24.3 million , or 44% , of total revenue was generated from the United States, which represents a 3% decrease as compared to the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower products revenue, partially offset by higher services revenue. During the first nine months of 2016, $85.2 million , or 51% , of total revenue was generated from the United States, which represents a 13% increase as compared to the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily due to higher products revenue as well as higher PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the third quarter of 2016, $16.0 million , or 29% , of total revenue was generated from Japan, which represents an 83% increase as compared to the same period of 2015. During the first nine months of 2016, $37.8 million , or 23% , of total revenue was generated from Japan, which represents a 56% increase as compared to the same period of 2015. The increase during both periods was primarily due to higher products revenue from service provider customers. In addition, the favorable currency exchange impact of the Japanese Yen on the revenue was $2.2 million and $3.5 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2016 , respectively. During the third quarter of 2016, $7.4 million , or 13% of total revenue was generated from the Asia Pacific regions excluding Japan, which represents a 7% decrease as compared to the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower products revenue, partially offset by higher services revenue. During the first nine months of 2016, $21.9 million , or 13% , of total revenue was generated from the Asia Pacific regions excluding Japan, which represents a 21% increase as compared to the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily due to higher products revenue resulting from our continuous efforts in expanding our presence in these regions as well as higher PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the third quarter of 2016, $6.0 million , or 11% , of total revenue was generated from EMEA, which represents a 17% decrease as compared to the same period of 2015. During the first nine months of 2016, $17.0 million , or 10% , of total revenue was generated from EMEA, which represents a 17% decrease as compared to the same period of 2015. The decrease during both periods was primarily due to lower products revenue as a result of overall economic weakness in the EMEA markets, partially offset by an increase in services revenue. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenue Cost of products revenue is primarily comprised of cost of third-party manufacturing services and cost of component inventory for the hardware component of our products. It also includes warehouse personnel costs, shipping costs, inventory write-downs, certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs, and expenses associated with logistics and quality control. Cost of services revenue is primarily comprised of personnel costs for our technical support, training and professional service teams. Cost of services revenue also includes the costs of inventory used to provide hardware replacements to end- customers under PCS contracts and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. 26 A summary of our cost of revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (dollars in thousands): Gross Margin Gross margin may vary and be unpredictable from period to period due to a variety of factors. These may include the mix of revenue from each of our regions, the mix of our products sold within a period, discounts provided to customers, inventory write-downs and foreign currency exchange rates. Our sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, however, in Japan they are denominated in Japanese yen. Changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen will therefore affect our revenue and gross margin. Any of the factors noted above can generate either a favorable or unfavorable impact on gross margin. A summary of gross profit and gross margin is as follows (dollars in thousands): Products gross margin remained relatively unchanged during the third quarter and the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same periods of 2015. 27 Services gross margins increased by 5.5% and 3.1% during the third quarter and the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same periods of 2015 primarily due to higher services revenue while the personnel costs related to support, professional services and maintenance increased only modestly during both periods. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and litigation expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs which consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. Personnel costs also include stock-based compensation. We expect our personnel costs to increase as our business continues to grow and we hire new employees. A summary of our operating expenses is as follows (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses are our largest functional category of total operating expenses and primarily consist of personnel costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of marketing programs, trade shows, consulting services, promotional materials, demonstration equipment, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $1.4 million , or 6% , during the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. The decrease was primarily due to a $0.7 million decrease in personnel costs mainly as a result of lower sales commissions, a $0.5 million decrease in travel and entertainment expense and a $0.2 million decrease in depreciation expense. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $2.6 million , or 3% , during the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily due to a $4.1 million increase in personnel costs as a result of higher salaries and sales commissions, partially offset by a $0.8 million decrease in depreciation expense and a $0.6 million decrease in travel and entertainment expense. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in the future as we expand our sales presence in existing countries and into new countries. 28 Research and Development Research and development efforts are focused on new product development and on developing additional functionality for our existing products. These expenses primarily consist of personnel costs, and, to a lesser extent, prototype materials, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. Research and development expense increased by $2.4 million , or 18% , during the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. This increase was primarily due to a $1.7 million increase in personnel costs mainly due to the impact of higher headcount from the acquisition of Appcito, a $0.3 million increase in depreciation and a $0.3 million increase in professional services. Research and development expense increased by $3.7 million , or 9% , during the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. This increase was primarily due to a $3.1 million increase in personnel costs mainly due to the impact of higher headcount from the acquisition of Appcito and a $0.5 million increase in professional services. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel costs, professional services and office expenses. General and administrative personnel costs include executive, finance, human resources, information technology, facility and legal (excluding litigation) related expenses. Professional services primarily consist of fees for outside accounting, tax, legal, recruiting and other administrative services. General and administrative expenses decreased by $0.6 million , or 9% , during the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015. This decrease was primarily due to a $0.9 million decrease in professional services as a result of lower contractor and consultant headcount and lower legal fees and a $0.5 million decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in personnel costs. General and administrative expenses remained relatively unchanged during the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015 as a $2.3 million increase in personnel costs was partially offset by a $2.1 million decrease in professional services and a $0.2 million decrease in depreciation expense. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in the future. Litigation and Settlement Expense Litigation and settlement expense is comprised of legal expenses incurred related to litigation and, if applicable, charges for litigation reserves. Litigation expenses consist of professional fees incurred in defending ourselves against litigation matters and are expensed as incurred when professional services are provided. The litigation reserve, if any, consists of accruals we make related to estimated losses in pending legal proceedings. Litigation reserves, if any, are adjusted as we change our estimates or make payments in damages or settlements. Litigation and settlement expense decreased by $0.4 million during the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015 primarily due to less litigation related activities following the settlement of the class action and the Derivative Action lawsuits in the first half of 2016. Litigation expense increased by $0.1 million during the first nine months of 2016 compared to the same period of 2015 primarily due to litigation activity leading up to and relating to the settlement of the class action and the Derivative Action lawsuits during the first nine months of 2016. Interest Income and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income and other income (expense), net, increased by $0.3 million during the third quarter of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015 primarily due to an increase in interest income. Interest income and other income (expense), net, increased by $1.7 million during the first nine months of 2016 as compared to the same period of 2015 primarily due to a $0.8 million increase in foreign exchange gains and a $0.7 million increase in interest income. The increase in foreign 29 exchange gains was primarily due to the impact of favorable currency exchange rates of the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar during the third quarter and the first nine months of 2016. The higher interest income was primarily attributable to increases in our investment in marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $0.3 million and $0.2 million during the third quarter of 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $0.6 million and $0.5 million during the first nine months of 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax expense primarily consists of foreign taxes and is accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We currently maintain a valuation allowance on federal and state deferred tax assets, and we will continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of this allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September30, 2016 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $31.4 million , including $3.0 million held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, and $85.4 million of marketable securities. We currently do not have any plans to repatriate our earnings from our foreign operations. As of September30, 2016 , we had working capital of $92.5 million , accumulated deficit of $241.0 million and total stockholders' equity of $82.6 million . We plan to continue to invest for long-term growth and anticipate our investment will continue to increase. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and other available financial resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the introduction of new and enhanced product and service offerings and the continuing market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. On October 27, 2016, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $20.0 million of our common stock over the next 12 months.Under the repurchase authorization, shares may be purchased from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means. The repurchase authorization may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. In addition, as described in Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we are currently, or may be from time to time be, involved in ongoing litigation. Any adverse settlements or judgments in any litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash balances and cash flows in the period in which such events occur. Credit Agreements In September 2013, we entered into the 2013 Credit Facility with Royal Bank of Canada, acting as administrative agent and lender, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. as lenders. The 2013 Credit Facility provided a three-year $35.0 million revolving credit facility, which included a maximum $10.0 million letter of credit facility. The 2013 Credit Facility expired on September 30, 2016. In November 2016, we entered into the 2016 Credit Facility with SVB, as lender. The 2016 Credit Facility provides a three -year, $25.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum of $25.0 million letter of credit facility. Our obligations under the 2016 Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding our intellectual property. The 2016 Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, in each case subject to customary exceptions. In addition, the 2016 Credit Facility provides that we must maintain compliance with an adjusted quick ratio of not less than 1.50:1.00, as determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility. Upon an event of default, SVB may declare the 30 outstanding obligations payable by us to be immediately due and payable, terminate the commitments and exercise other rights and remedies provided for under the 2016 Credit Facility. The events of default under the 2016 Credit Facility include, among others, payment defaults, covenant defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, judgment defaults, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness and defaults relating to government approvals. Through the date of this filing, we had no outstanding balance under the 2016 Credit Facility and were in compliance with all facility covenants. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow related activities (in thousands): Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash provided by operating activities is driven primarily by sales of our products, management of working capital investments and, to a lesser extent, by up-front payments from end-customers under PCS contracts. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel-related expenditures, manufacturing costs, marketing and promotional expenses, costs related to our facilities and litigation expenses. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected principally by the extent to which we increase spending on personnel and sales and marketing activities, our working capital requirements, and litigation expenses. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , cash provided by operating activities was $21.8 million , consisting of a net loss of $19.2 million , non-cash charges of $20.8 million and a $20.2 million cash increase resulting from changes in net operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges consisted of $13.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $5.9 million of depreciation and amortization expenses and $1.8 million of other non-cash items (primarily a provision for doubtful accounts and sales returns allowance). The changes in our net operating assets and liabilities primarily reflect an inflow from the changes in deferred revenue of $10.4 million , accounts receivable of $7.3 million , inventory of $2.3 million and accrued liabilities of $0.9 million , and an outflow from the change in accounts payable of $0.9 million . The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to increased PCS sales in connection with higher installed customer base. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to improved cash collections. The decrease in inventory was primarily due to improved management of inventory balances and increased inventory reserves. The decrease in accounts payable was largely due to the timing of vendor invoice payments. During thenine months ended September 30, 2015, cash provided by operating activities was$7.6 million, consisting of a net loss of$32.7 million,non-cash charges of$21.6 millionand an$18.7 million cash increase resulting from changes in net operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges consisted of$13.2 millionof stock-based compensation,$6.8 millionof depreciation and amortization expenses and$1.6 millionof other non-cash items (primarily a provision for doubtful accounts and sales returns allowance). The changes in our net operating assets and liabilities primarily reflect an inflow from the changes in accounts receivable of $11.2 million, deferred revenue of $9.1 million, inventory of $0.9 million, and an outflow from the aggregate change in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of$2.6 million. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to improved cash collection in 2015 and the timing of billing, as a higher portion of the December 31, 2014 outstanding accounts receivable were billed during the latter part of the quarter compared to theSeptember30, 2015outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in deferred revenue was due to timing of billings of support contracts, the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base and an increase in deferred professional services revenue. The decrease in inventory was primarily due to increased consumption of existing inventory. The decreases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities were primarily attributable to a decrease in accrued compensation costs largely due to the payment of accrued commissions and bonuses and the timing of vendor invoice payments. 31 Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , cash used in investing activities was $95.6 million , primarily consisting of $85.5 million of net purchases of marketable securities, $4.4 million for payment for the acquisition of Appcito Inc., $4.3 million for purchases of property and equipment and $1.5 million for purchase of intangible assets. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015, cash used in investing activities was $2.6 million , primarily for purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, cash provided by financing activities was $7.0 million and $3.5 million , respectively, primarily consisting of proceeds from common stock issuance under our employee stock purchase plan and the exercise of stock options. Contractual Obligations As of September30, 2016 , our contractual obligations consist of capital leases, operating leases, purchase commitments, and other contractual obligations. There have been no material changes to these obligations outside the ordinary course of business during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the contractual obligations disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September30, 2016 , we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. The following are changes to our critical accounting policies as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the underlying net tangible and intangible assets. We review goodwill for possible impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying amount may not be recoverable. Triggering events that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in customer demand or a severe deterioration in our operating environment and market conditions. These changes could affect the value of goodwill or a significant decrease in expected cash flows. We perform the impairment testing by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than our carrying amount. If we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than our carrying amount, we perform a two-step impairment test. The first step requires the identification of the reporting units and comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with our carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than our carrying value, an indication of goodwill impairment exists for the reporting unit and the second step of the impairment test is performed to compute the amount of the impairment. Under the second step, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 32 Intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology, patent and acquired customer relationships resulting from acquisitions. Intangible assets are recorded at fair value and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which ranges from five to ten years. We review long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment periodically or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Triggering events that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, significant under performance relative to estimated results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. We determine the recoverability of intangible assets based on estimated undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds the assets fair market value.ITEM 1. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited, in thousands, except par value) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 2 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 A10 Networks, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business A10 Networks, Inc. (together with our subsidiaries, "we", "our" or "us") was incorporated in California in 2004 and reincorporated in Delaware in March 2014. We are headquartered in San Jose, California and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world including Asia and Europe. Our solutions enable our customers to secure and optimize the performance of their data center and cloud applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. Our product portfolio consists ofsixadvanced application delivery and security products; Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC"), Lightning Application Delivery Service ("Lightning ADS"), Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN"), Threat Protection System ("TPS"), SSL Insight ("SSLi") and Convergent Firewall ("CFW"). They are available in a variety of form factors, such as optimized hardware appliances, bare metal software, virtual appliances, and cloud-native software. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include those of A10 Networks, Inc. and its subsidiaries after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statement pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). As permitted under these rules and regulations, we have condensed or omitted certain financial information and footnote disclosures we normally include in our annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in management's opinion, reflect all adjustments consisting only of normal recurring adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. Our interim period operating results do not necessarily indicate the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year. These financial statements and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes thereto in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 on file with the SEC (our "Annual Report"). Use of Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Those estimates and assumptions affect revenue recognition and deferred revenue, allowance for doubtful accounts, sales return reserve, valuation of inventory, fair value of marketable securities, contingencies and litigation, acquisition related purchase price allocations, accrued liabilities, and the determination of fair value of stock-based compensation. These estimates are based on information available as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements; therefore, actual results could differ from management's estimates. Significant Accounting Policies There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report. Concentration of Credit Risk and Significant Customers Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable. Our cash and marketable securities are held and invested in high-credit quality financial instruments by recognized financial institutions and therefore subject to minimum credit risk. Our accounts receivable areunsecured and represent amounts due to us based on contractual obligations of our customers. We mitigate credit risk in respect to accounts receivable by performing periodic credit evaluations based on a 6 number of factors, including past transaction experience, evaluation of credit history and review of the invoicing terms of the contract. We generally do not require our customers to provide collateral to support accounts receivable. Significantcustomers, including distribution channel partners and direct customers, are those which represent more than 10% of our total revenue for each period presented or our gross accounts receivable balance as of each respective balance sheet date. Revenues from our significant customers as a percentage of our total revenue are as follows: * represents less than 10% of total revenue As of March31, 2017 , two customers accounted for 18% and 13% of our total gross accounts receivable. As of December31, 2016 , three customers accounted for 15% , 13% and 11% of our total gross accounts receivable. Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2016-09,Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax effects of awards in the income statement when the awards vest or are settled, thus eliminating additional paid-in-capital pools. The guidance also allows for the employer to repurchase more of an employee's shares for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods of public entities beginning after December 15, 2016 with early adoption permitted. We adopted the standard in the first quarter of 2017 and elected to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeiture. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective In May 2014, the FASBissued ASU No. 2014-09,Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will supersede most of the existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.This ASU requires an entity to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services and requires the capitalization of incremental customer acquisition costs and amortization of these costs over the contract period or estimated customer life which will result in the recognition of a contract asset on our balance sheets. This standard is effective forannualreporting periods beginning after December15,2017, including interim periods within that reporting period.The ASU allows for either full retrospective or modified retrospective adoption.We intend to adopt the standard in the first quarter of 2018 applying the modified retrospective method. While we are continuing to assess all potential impacts of the new standard, we currently do not believe this standard will have a material impact on revenue recognized in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We are in the process of evaluating both the impact of capitalizing and amortizing incremental customer acquisition costs and the disclosure requirements relating to this standard. In February 2016, theFASB issued ASU No. 2016-02,Leases(Topic 842).This new accounting standardprimarily requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets but record expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to current accounting. For lessors, the guidance modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases. The guidance is effectivefor annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04,Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , which removes the requirement to compare the implied fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount as part of step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. As a result, under this ASU, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value; however, the impairment loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. This guidance is 7 effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. We are currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. There have been no other recent accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements that are of significance or potential significance to us. 2. Marketable Securities and Fair Value Measurements Marketable Securities Marketable securities, classified as available-for-sale, consisted of the following (in thousands): During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , we did not reclassify any amount to earnings from accumulated other comprehensive loss related to unrealized gains or losses. The following table summarizes the cost and estimated fair value of marketable securities based on stated effective maturities as of March31, 2017 (in thousands): All available-for-sale securities have been classified as current based on management's ability to use the funds in current operations. Marketable securities in an unrealized loss position consisted of the following (in thousands): 8 As of March31, 2017 , no marketable securities were in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than twelve months. Based on evaluation of securities that have been in a continuous loss position, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment charges during the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 . Fair Value Measurements The following is a summary of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands): There were no transfers between Level1 and Level2 fair value measurement categories during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 . 3. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statement Details Inventory 9 Property and Equipment, net Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $1.8 million and $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 was $1.3 million . Purchased intangible assets, net, consisted of the following (in thousands): Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets was $0.4 million and $33,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over a remaining weighted average useful life of 4.4 years. Future amortization expense for purchased intangible assets as of March31, 2017 is as follows (in thousands): 10 Accrued Liabilities Deferred Revenue 4. Credit Facility In November 2016, we entered into a loan and security agreement (the "2016 Credit Facility") with Silicon Valley Bank ("SVB"), as the lender. The 2016 Credit Facility provides a three -year, $25.0 million revolving credit subfacility, which includes a maximum of $25.0 million letter of credit subfacility. When the balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities minus outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit equals or exceeds $50.0 million , loans may be advanced under the 2016 Credit Facility up to the full $25.0 million . When the balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities minus outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit falls below $50.0 million , loans may be advanced under the 2016 Credit Facility based on a borrowing base equal to a specified percentage of the value of our eligible accounts receivable. The loans bear interest, at our option, at (i) the prime rate reported in The Wall Street Journal, minus 0.50% or (ii) a LIBOR rate determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility, plus 2.50% . We are required to pay customary closing fees, commitment fees and letter of credit fees for a facility of this size and type. Our obligations under the 2016 Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding our intellectual property. The 2016 Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants. In addition, the 2016 Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with an adjusted quick ratio of not less than 1.50:1.00, as determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility. As of March31, 2017 , we had no outstanding balance under the 2016 Credit Facility and were in compliance with all facility covenants. 5. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be party or subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to intellectual property matters. Some of these proceedings have involved, and may involve, claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. Accordingly, except as disclosed, we have not established reserves or ranges of possible loss related to these proceedings, if any, as at this time in the proceedings the matters do not relate to a probable loss and/or amounts that can be reasonably estimated. 11 On January 29, 2015, the Company, the members of our Board of Directors, our former Chief Financial Officer, and the underwriters of our March 21, 2014 initial public offering ("IPO") were named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit alleging violations of the federal Securities Act of 1933 filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, captioned City of Warren Police and Fire Retirement System v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-276207. Several substantially identical lawsuits were subsequently filed in the same court, bringing the same claims against the same defendants, captioned Arkansas Teacher Retirement System v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-278575 (filed March 25, 2015) and Kaveny v. A10 Networks, Inc., et al., 1-15-CV-279006 (filed April 6, 2015). On May 29, 2015, the aforementioned putative class actions were consolidated under the caption In re A10 Networks, Inc. Shareholder Litigation, 1-15-CV-276207. On April 6, 2016, all parties entered into a memorandum of understanding reflecting an agreement in principle to settle all claims against all defendants asserted in the action and providing that we will make a payment of $0.8 million , net of the expected proceeds of insurance policies.The parties subsequently executed a stipulation of settlement, dated June 30, 2016, and filed a motion with the Court seeking preliminary approval of the settlement, which was granted on September 15, 2016. The payment was made in October 2016. Following a February 24, 2017 hearing, the Court on March 2, 2017 issued an order granting final approval of the parties' settlement, as well as lead counsel's motion for an award of attorneys' fees. The settlement released all claims asserted against all defendants and included the dismissal of all claims against all defendants without any liability or wrongdoing attributed to them. On June 24, 2015, our directors and certain of our officers were named as defendants in a putative derivative lawsuit filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, captioned Hornung v. Chen, et al. , 1-15-CV-282286 (the "Derivative Action"). We were also named as a nominal defendant.The complaint sought to allege breaches of fiduciary duties and other related claims, arising out of allegations that our officers and directors caused us to infringe patents and intellectual property, improperly approved the settlement of prior litigation, failed to adopt and implement effective internal controls, and caused us to issue false and misleading statements in connection with our IPO. Plaintiff sought unspecified compensatory damages and other equitable relief.On May 24, 2016, all parties entered into a memorandum of understanding reflecting an agreement in principle to settle all claims against all defendants asserted in the action, which provides that we implement certain corporate governance measures following final settlement approval.The parties subsequently executed a stipulation of settlement, dated August 26, 2016, and filed a motion with the Court seeking preliminary approval of the settlement. On November 22, 2016, the Court issued an order preliminarily approving the settlement. Following a February 24, 2017 hearing, the Court on March 1, 2017 issued an order granting final approval of the parties' settlement, as well as plaintiff's counsel's motion for an award of attorneys' fees. The settlement released all claims asserted against all defendants and included the dismissal of all claims against all defendants without any liability or wrongdoing attributed to them. Lease Commitments We lease various operating spaces in the United States, Asia, and Europe under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements that expire on various dates through April 2022 . These arrangements require us to pay certain operating expenses, such as taxes, repairs, and insurance and contain renewal and escalation clauses. We recognize rent expense under these arrangements on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Guarantees and Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products. Other guarantees or indemnification arrangements include guarantees of product and service performance, and standby letters of credit for lease facilities and corporate credit cards. We have not recorded a liability related to these indemnification and guarantee provisions and our guarantees and indemnification arrangements have not had any significant impact on our consolidated financial statements to date. 6. Equity Incentive Plans and Stock-Based Compensation Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Equity Incentive Plan The 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan") provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance-based RSUs ("PSUs"), stock appreciation rights, performance units and 12 performance shares to our employees, consultants and members of our board of directors. In June2015, our board of directors adopted and our stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of the 2014Plan, which increased the number of shares available for issuance under the 2014 Plan by the number of shares granted under the 2008 Stock Plan (the "2008 Plan") that were or may in the future be canceled or otherwise forfeited or repurchased after March20,2014. A maximum of 8,310,566 shares may become available from such awards granted under the 2008 Plan for issuance under the 2014 Plan. As of December31, 2016 , we had 4,241,980 shares available for future grant. Annually, the shares authorized for the 2014 Plan increase by the least of (i) 8,000,000 shares, (ii) 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock on the last day of our immediately preceding fiscal year, or (iii)such other amount as determined by our Board of Directors. On January1, 2017 , the number of shares in the 2014 Plan was increased by 3,394,376 shares, representing 5% of the prior year end's common stock outstanding. In addition, 266,799 shares granted under the 2008 Plan that had been canceled, forfeited or repurchased during the year ended December31, 2016 became available for issuance under the 2014 Plan. As of March31, 2017 , we had 7,129,441 shares available for future grant plus an additional approximately 49,000 shares granted under the 2008 Plan that have been canceled, forfeited or repurchased during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan The 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2014 Purchase Plan") provides for twenty-four month offering periods with four six-month purchase periods in each offering period. Employees purchase shares in each purchase period at 85% of the market value of our common stock at the beginning of the offering period or the end of the purchase period, whichever is lower. If the market value of our common stock at the end of the purchase period is less than the market value at the beginning of the offering period, participants will be withdrawn from the then current offering period following their purchase of shares, and automatically will be enrolled in the immediately following offering period. Participants may contribute up to 15% of their eligible compensation, subject to certain limits. As of March31, 2017 , we had 4,104,060 shares available for future issuanceunder the 2014 Purchase Plan. Stock-Based Compensation A summary of our stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in thousands): As of March31, 2017 , we had $40.2 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock-based awards which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years. The fair value of the options is estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: 13 __________________________________________ * We did not grant stock options during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . There were no employee stock purchase rights granted during the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 . Stock Options The following tables summarize our stock option activities and related information: __________________________________________ (1) Includes 49,000 shares of canceled stock options from the 2008 Plan that were added to the 2014 Plan. As of March31, 2017 , the aggregate intrinsic value represents the excess of the closing price of our common stock of $9.15 over the exercise price of the outstanding in-the-money options. The following table provides information pertaining to our stock options (in thousands, except weighted-average fair value): __________________________________________ * We did not grant stock options during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Stock Awards We have grantedRSUs to our employees, consultants and members of our board of directors, and PSUs and market performance-based restricted stock units ("MSUs") to certain executives. In 2014 and 2015, we granted 540,000 MSUsand 40,000 MSUs, respectively,to certain executives. These MSUs will vest if the closing price of our common stock remains above certain predetermined target prices for 20 consecutive trading days within a 4 -year period following the grant date, subject to continued service by the award holder. None of these MSUs were 14 vested as of March31, 2017 . In February 2016, we granted 547,000 PSUs with certain financial and operational targets. These PSUs are subject to service condition vesting requirements with 25% of the PSUs that become eligible to vest upon achievement of the performance targets scheduled to vest on each of the first, second, third and fourth year anniversary following February 2016. Actual performance resulted in participants achieving 80% of target, or approximately 0.4 million shares, of which approximately 0.1 million shares vested in February 2017. In October 2016, we granted 60,641 PSUs with certain financial and operational targets. These PSUs are subject to service condition vesting requirements withscheduled vesting dates March 2017 through June 2018 to the extent they become eligible to vest upon achievement of the performance targets. None of these PSUs were vested as of March31, 2017 . In March 2017, we granted 395,383 PSUs with certain financial targets. These PSUs will vest between ranges of 0% and 150% based on the actual performance, and are subject to service condition vesting requirements with 25% of the PSUs that become eligible to vest upon achievement of the performance targets scheduled to vest on each of the first, second, third and fourth year anniversary following February 2017. None of these PSUs were vested as of March31, 2017 . The following table summarizes our stock award activities and related information: The aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding awards is calculated based on the closing price of our common stock of $9.15 on March31, 2017 . The aggregate fair value of stock awards released as of the respective vesting dates was approximately $6.2 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Stock Repurchase Program On October 27, 2016, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $20.0 million of our common stock over 12 months.Under the repurchase authorization, shares may be purchased from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means. The repurchase authorization may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. As of March31, 2017 , we had $18.2 million remaining authorized to purchase shares. There were no stock repurchases during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . 7. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net loss per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period plus potential dilutive common shares, including stock options, RSUs and employee stock purchase rights, unless the potential common shares are anti-dilutive. Since we had net losses in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , none of the potential dilutive common shares were included in the computation of diluted shares for these periods, as inclusion of such shares would have been anti-dilutive. 15 The following table presents common shares related to potentially dilutive shares excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive (in thousands): 8. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $0.4 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, which primarily consisted of foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We believe it is more likely than not that our federal and state net deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax asset will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. A valuation allowance is recorded for loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will not be realized. Accordingly, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our U.S. and certain foreign net deferred tax assets as of March31, 2017 . We will continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net federal, state and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support recoverability of our deferred tax assets. We had $3.4 million and $3.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 , respectively. We do not anticipate a material change to our unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months. Unrecognized tax benefits may change during the next twelve months for items that arise in the ordinary course of business. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized as part of our income tax provision in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. We are subject to taxation in the United States, various states, and several foreign jurisdictions. Because we have net operating loss and credit carryforwards, there are open statutes of limitations in which federal, state and foreign taxing authorities may examine our tax returns for all years from 2004 through the current period. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for our 2015 and 2014 tax returns. 9. Geographic Information The following table is a summary of revenue by geographic regions based on ship to location (in thousands): 16 Our long-lived assets which include property and equipment, net and intangible assets, net is primarily located in the United States. No other geographic regions comprised 10% or more of our long-lived assets as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 . ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations ("MD&A") should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. In addition to historical information, the MD&A contains forward-looking statements. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "would," "project," "plan" "expect," and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims, if any; loss or delay of expected purchases by our largest end-customers; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; our ability to expand our leadership position in next-generation application delivery and server load balancing solutions; continued growth in markets relating to network security; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to expand internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to achieve or maintain profitability while continuing to invest in our sales, marketing and research and development teams; variations in product mix or geographic locations of our sales; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; increased cost requirements of being a public company and future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets; the cost and potential outcomes of existing and future litigation, if any; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies; and our ability to effectively integrate operations of entities we have acquired or may acquire. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. 17 You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of software and hardware solutions designed to address our customers' needs for secure application services. Our solutions enable our customers to secure and optimize the performance of their data center and cloud applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. We deliver a broad portfolio of hardware, software, and cloud offerings to our customers. These solutions are designed to give customers the visibility, performance, and security their applications need across both on-premise and cloud environments to produce greater agility for their businesses. Our customers include cloud providers, web-scale companies, service providers, government organizations and enterprises. Our product portfolio seeks to address many of the aforementioned challenges and solution requirements. The portfolio consists of six advanced application delivery and security products; Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC"), Lightning Application Delivery Service ("Lightning ADS"), Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN"), Threat Protection System ("TPS"), SSL Insight ("SSLi") and Convergent Firewall ("CFW"). They are available in a variety of form factors, such as optimized hardware appliances, bare metal software, virtual appliances, and cloud-native software. We derive revenue from sales of products and related support services. Products revenue is generated primarily by sales of hardware appliances with perpetual licenses to our embedded software solutions. We also derive revenue from licenses to, or subscription services for, software-only versions of our solutions. We generate services revenue primarily from sales of maintenance and support contracts. Our customers predominantly purchase maintenance and support in conjunction with purchases of our products. In addition, we also derive revenue from the sale of professional services. We sell our products globally to service providers and enterprises that depend on data center applications and networks to generate revenue and manage operations efficiently. Our end-customers operate in a variety of industries, including telecommunications, technology, industrial, retail, financial, gaming, education and government. Since inception, our customer base has grown rapidly. As of March31, 2017 , we had sold products to approximately 5,600 customers across 82 countries. We sell substantially all of our solutions through our high-touch sales organization as well as distribution channel partners, including distributors, value added resellers and system integrators, and fulfill nearly all orders globally through such partners. We believe this sales approach allows us to obtain the benefits of channel distribution, such as expanding our market coverage, while still maintaining face-to-face relationships with our end-customers. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to original design manufacturers. We perform quality assurance and testing at our San Jose, Taiwan and Japan distribution centers, as well as at our manufacturers' locations. During the first quarter of 2017 , 51% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 22% from Japan and 27% from other geographical regions. During the first quarter of 2016 , 55% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 20% from Japan and 25% from other geographical regions. Our enterprise customers accounted for 55% and 60% of our total revenue during the first quarter of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Our service provider customers accounted for 45% and 40% of our total revenue during the first quarter of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of large customers, including service providers, in any period.During the first quarter of 2017 and 2016 , purchases from our ten largest end-customers accounted for 49% and 38% , respectively,of our total revenue. Sales to these large end-customers have typically been characterized by large but irregular purchases with long sales cycles. The timing of these purchases and the delivery of the purchased products are difficult to predict. As a consequence, any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases, by or deliveries to, our largest customers could materially impact our revenue and operating results in any quarterly period. This may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and make them difficult to predict. 18 As of March31, 2017 , we had $30.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $85.6 million of marketable securities. Cash generated by operating activities was $0.5 million during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to $10.4 million during the same period of 2016 . We intend tocontinue to invest for long-term growth. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in our product development efforts to deliver new products and additional features in our current products to address customer needs. In addition, we expect to continue to expand our global sales and marketing organizations, expand our distribution channel partner programs and increase awareness of our solutions on a global basis. Additionally, we will be investing in general and administrative resources to meet the requirements to operate as a public company. Our investments in growth in these areas may affect our short-term profitability. Results of Operations A summary of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows (dollars in thousands): Revenue Our products revenue primarily consists of revenue from sales of our hardware appliances upon which our software is installed. Such software includes our ACOS software platform plus one of our ADC, CGN, TPS, SSLi or CFW solutions. Purchase of a hardware appliance includes a perpetual license to the included software. We recognize products revenue at the 19 time of shipment, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. As a percentage of revenue, our products revenue may vary from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing of orders and delivery of products, cyclicality and seasonality, changes in currency exchange rates and the impact of significant transactions with unique terms and conditions. We generate services revenue from sales of post-contract support ("PCS"), which is bundled with sales of products and professional services. We offer tiered PCS services under renewable, fee-based PCS contracts, primarily including technical support, hardware repair and replacement parts, and software upgrades on a when-and-if-released basis. We recognize services revenue ratably over the term of the PCS contract, which is typically one year, but can be up to five years. A summary of our total revenue is as follows (dollars in thousands): Total revenue increased $6.5 million , or 12% , during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . This increase was comprised of a $3.3 million increase in products revenue and a $3.2 million increase in services revenue. Revenue from enterprise and service provider customers increased 2% and 27% , respectively, during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . Products revenue increased $3.3 million , or 9% , during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . The increase was primarily attributable to increases from Japan and Asia Pacific excluding Japan, partially offset by decreases from the United States and EMEA. Services revenue increased $3.2 million , or 18% , during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . The increase was primarily attributable to the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the first quarter of 2017 , services revenue recognized from our installed customer base with contracts existing at the beginning of the year grew by 16% as compared to the same measure during the first quarter of 2016 . During the first quarter of 2017 , $30.7 million , or 51% of total revenue, was generated from the United States, which represents a 4% increase as compared to the same period of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to higher services revenue attributable to the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the first quarter of 2017 , $13.1 million , or 22% of total revenue, was generated from Japan, which represents a 20% increase as compared to the same period of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to higher products revenue and higher services revenue from PCS sales in connection with renewals. During the first quarter of 2017 , $10.2 million , or 17% of total revenue, was generated from Asia Pacific regions excluding Japan, which represents a 52% increase as compared to the same period of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to higher products revenue. 20 During the first quarter of 2017 , $5.2 million , or 8% of total revenue, was generated from EMEA, which represents a 3% increase as compared to the same period of 2016 . The increase was primarily due higher services revenue, partially offset by lower products revenue as a result of overall economic weakness and uncertainty in the EMEA markets . Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenue Cost of products revenue is primarily comprised of cost of third-party manufacturing services and cost of inventory for the hardware component of our products. Cost of products revenue also includes warehouse personnel costs, shipping costs, inventory write-downs, certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs, and expenses associated with logistics and quality control. Cost of services revenue is primarily comprised of personnel costs for our technical support, training and professional service teams. Cost of services revenue also includes the costs of inventory used to provide hardware replacements to end- customers under PCS contracts and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. A summary of our cost of revenue is as follows (dollars in thousands): Gross Margin Gross margin may vary and be unpredictable from period to period due to a variety of factors. These may include the mix of revenue from each of our regions, the mix of our products sold within a period, discounts provided to customers, inventory write-downs and foreign currency exchange rates. Our sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, however, in Japan they are denominated in Japanese yen. Changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen will therefore affect our revenue and gross margin. Any of the factors noted above can generate either a favorable or unfavorable impact on gross margin. A summary of gross profit and gross margin is as follows (dollars in thousands): Products gross margin decreased by 1% during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily due to unfavorable geographic and product revenue mix. We had more sales from geographic regions and products with lower gross margins in first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . Services gross margins increased 5% during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily due to higher services revenue while the personnel costs related to support, professional services and maintenance remained relatively constant. 21 Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and litigation and settlement expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs which consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. Personnel costs also include stock-based compensation. We expect our personnel costs to increase as our business continues to grow and we hire new employees. A summary of our operating expenses is as follows (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses are our largest functional category of operating expenses and primarily consist of personnel costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of marketing programs, trade shows, consulting services, promotional materials, demonstration equipment, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $0.5 million , or 2% , during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily attributable to a decrease in personnel costs. However, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in the future as we expand our sales presence in existing countries and into new countries. Research and Development Research and development efforts are focused on new product development and on developing additional functionality for our existing products. These expenses primarily consist of personnel costs, and, to a lesser extent, prototype materials, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. Research and development expense increased $2.3 million , or 15% , during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . This increase was primarily due to a $1.6 million increase in personnel costs due to higher headcount, which includes a $0.2 million increase in stock-based compensation, a $0.3 million increase in depreciation expense, a $0.1 million increase in contractors and consultants, a $0.1 million increase in recruiting and a $0.1 million increase in office expenses. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel costs, professional services and office expenses. General and administrative personnel costs include executive, finance, human resources, information technology, facility and legal (excluding litigation) related expenses. Professional services primarily consist of fees for outside accounting, tax, legal, recruiting and other administrative services. General and administrative expenses increased $0.5 million , or 8% , during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily due to an increase in personnel costs. 22 We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in the future. Litigation and Settlement Expense Litigation and settlement expense is comprised of legal expenses incurred related to litigation and, if applicable, charges for litigation reserves. Litigation expenses consist of professional fees incurred in defending ourselves against litigation matters and are expensed as incurred when professional services are provided. The litigation reserve, if any, consists of accruals we make related to estimated losses in pending legal proceedings. Litigation reserves, if any, are adjusted as we change our estimates or make payments in damages or settlements. We had no litigation and settlement expense during the first quarter of 2017 . Litigation and settlement expense of $1.8 million during the first quarter of 2016 was due to the Class Action and the Derivative Action lawsuits which were settled in the second quarter of 2016. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs. At March31, 2017 , we had no outstanding balances on our credit facility.We expect to continue to incur commitment fees associated with the undrawn balance of our credit facility.At such time we choose to draw down on the credit facility, we would reduce the commitment fees accrued and increase the interest on outstanding balances. Interest expense was immaterial and remained relatively unchanged during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Other income (expense) consists primarily of foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Interest and other income (expense), net, increased $0.6 million , or 292% , during the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily due to a $0.4 million increase in foreign exchange gains and a $0.1 million increase in interest income attributable to increases in our investment in marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded income tax provision of $0.4 million and $0.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The income tax expense primarily consists of foreign taxes and is accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We currently maintain a valuation allowance on federal and state deferred tax assets, and we will continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of this allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March31, 2017 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $30.6 million , including $3.9 million held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, and $85.6 million of marketable securities. We currently do not have any plans to repatriate our earnings from our foreign operations. As of March31, 2017 , we had working capital of $103.5 million , accumulated deficit of $246.9 million and total stockholders' equity of $88.6 million . We plan to continue to invest for long-term growth and anticipate our investment will continue to increase. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and other available financial resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the introduction of new and enhanced product and service offerings and the continuing market acceptance 23 of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. On October 27, 2016, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $20.0 million of our common stock over the next 12 months.Under the repurchase authorization, shares may be purchased from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means. The repurchase authorization may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. Since the authorization and through March31, 2017 , we repurchased 226,676 shares at a weighted average effective price of $7.92 per share and used approximately $1.8 million of cash. There were no stock repurchases during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . In addition, as described in Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies to the condensed consolidated financial statements, we may be from time to time involved in litigation. Any adverse settlements or judgments in any litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash balances and cash flows in the period in which such events occur. Credit Agreements In November 2016, we entered into the 2016 Credit Facility with SVB, as lender. The 2016 Credit Facility provides a three -year, $25.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum of $25.0 million letter of credit subfacility. When the balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities minus outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit equals or exceeds $50.0 million, loans may be advanced under the 2016 Credit Facility up to the full $25.0 million. When the balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities minus outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit falls below $50.0 million, loans may be advanced under the 2016 Credit Facility based on a borrowing base equal to a specified percentage of the value of our eligible accounts receivable. The loans bear interest, at our option, at (i) the prime rate reported in The Wall Street Journal, minus 0.50% or (ii) a LIBOR rate determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility, plus 2.50%. Our obligations under the 2016 Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding our intellectual property. The 2016 Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, in each case subject to customary exceptions, and customary events of default. In addition, the 2016 Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with an adjusted quick ratio of not less than 1.50:1.00, as determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility. As of March31, 2017 , we hadnooutstanding balance under the 2016 Credit Facility and were in compliance with all facility covenants. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow related activities (in thousands): Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash provided by operating activitiesis driven primarily by sales of our products and management of working capital investments. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel-related expenditures, manufacturing costs, marketing and promotional expenses and costs related to our facilities. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected principally by the extent to which we increase spending on our business and our working capital requirements. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , cash provided by operating activities was $0.5 million , consisting of a net loss of $3.9 million , non-cash charges of $6.2 million and cash decrease resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.8 million . Our non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $4.3 million 24 and depreciation and amortization expenses of $2.2 million . The net change in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflects an outflow from the changes in inventory of $2.2 million , prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.7 million , accounts payable of $1.6 million and accrued liabilities of $1.6 million , and an inflow from the changes in accounts receivable of $5.2 million and deferred revenue of $0.2 million . The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to improved cash collections. The increase in inventory was primarily due to the inventory build-up for anticipated future demand. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to prepaid insurance and software subscriptions. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of vendor invoice payments. The decrease in accrued liabilities was primarily due to the payments of accrued bonuses and commissions. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to increased PCS sales in connection with a higher installed customer base. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash provided by operating activities was$10.4 million, consisting of a net loss of$9.5 million,non-cash charges of $6.8 million and cash increase resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $13.2 million. Our non-cash charges consisted primarily ofstock-based compensation expense of $4.6 million and depreciation and amortization expenses of $1.9 million. The net change in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflects an inflow from the changes in accounts receivable of $15.6 million, deferred revenue of $2.0 million and inventory of $0.8 million, and an outflow from the changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $4.2 million and prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.2 million. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to improved cash collections. The increase in deferred revenue was due to increase in PCS sales in connection with our increasing installed customer base. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was primarily attributable to a decrease in accrued compensation costs largely due to the payments of accrued bonuses and commissions and the timing of vendor invoice payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , cash used in investing activities was $1.0 million , primarily consisting of purchases of property and equipment of $0.7 million and net purchases of marketable securities of $0.3 million . During the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in investing activities was$70.7 million, primarily consisting of net purchases in marketable securities of $69.3 million andpurchases of property and equipment of $1.4 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , cash provided by financing activities was $2.0 million and $0.3 million , respectively, primarily consisting of proceeds from common stock issuance under our equity incentive plan. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations consist of capital leases, operating leases, purchase commitments and other contractual obligations. There have been no material changes to these obligations outside the ordinary course of business during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the contractual obligations disclosed in MD&A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March31, 2017 , we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 25 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed inMD&A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 .ITEM 1. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited, in thousands, except par value) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 2 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited, in thousands, except per share amounts) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 A10 NETWORKS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 A10 Networks, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business A10 Networks, Inc. (together with our subsidiaries, "we", "our" or "us") was incorporated in California in 2004 and reincorporated in Delaware in March 2014. We are headquartered in San Jose, California and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world including Asia and Europe. Our solutions enable our customers to secure and optimize the performance of their data center and cloud applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. Our product portfolio consists ofsix advanced application delivery and security products: Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC"), Lightning Application Delivery Service ("Lightning ADS"), Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN"), Threat Protection System ("TPS"), SSL Insight ("SSLi") and Convergent Firewall ("CFW"). They are available in a variety of form factors, such as optimized hardware appliances, bare metal software, virtual appliances, and cloud-native software. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include those of A10 Networks, Inc. and its subsidiaries after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statement pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). As permitted under these rules and regulations, we have condensed or omitted certain financial information and footnote disclosures we normally include in our annual consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in management's opinion, reflect all adjustments consisting only of normal recurring adjustments that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. Our interim period operating results do not necessarily indicate the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year. These financial statements and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and accompanying notes thereto in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 on file with the SEC (our "Annual Report"). Use of Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Those estimates and assumptions affect revenue recognition and deferred revenue, allowance for doubtful accounts, sales return reserve, valuation of inventory, fair value of marketable securities, contingencies and litigation, acquisition related purchase price allocations, accrued liabilities, and the determination of fair value of stock-based compensation. These estimates are based on information available as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements; therefore, actual results could differ from management's estimates. Significant Accounting Policies There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report. Concentration of Credit Risk and Significant Customers Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are held and invested in high-credit quality financial instruments by recognized financial institutions and therefore subject to minimum credit risk. Our accounts receivable areunsecured and represent amounts due to us based on contractual obligations of our customers. We mitigate credit risk in respect to accounts receivable by performing periodic credit evaluations based on a 6 number of factors, including past transaction experience, evaluation of credit history and review of the invoicing terms of the contract. We generally do not require our customers to provide collateral to support accounts receivable. Significantcustomers, including distribution channel partners and direct customers, are those which represent more than 10% of our total revenue for each period presented or our gross accounts receivable balance as of each respective balance sheet date. Revenues from our significant customers as a percentage of our total revenue are as follows: * represents less than 10% of total revenue As of June30, 2017 , one customer accounted for 15% of our total gross accounts receivable. As of December31, 2016 , three customers accounted for 15% , 13% and 11% of our total gross accounts receivable. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB")issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09,Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will supersede most of the existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.This ASU requires an entity to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services and requires the capitalization of incremental customer acquisition costs and amortization of these costs over the contract period or estimated customer life which will result in the recognition of a contract asset on our balance sheets. This standard is effective forannual periods beginning after December15,2017 and interim periods within that reporting period.The ASU allows for either full retrospective or modified retrospective adoption.We intend to adopt the standard in the first quarter of 2018 applying the modified retrospective method. While we are continuing to assess all potential impacts of the new standard, we currently do not believe this standard will have a material impact on revenue recognized in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We are in the process of evaluating both the impact of capitalizing and amortizing incremental customer acquisition costs, such as sales commissions on our service contracts, and the disclosure requirements relating to this standard. In February 2016, theFASB issued ASU No. 2016-02,Leases(Topic 842).This new accounting standardprimarily requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets but record expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to current accounting. For lessors, the guidance modifies the classification criteria and the accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases. This standard is effectivefor annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04,Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , which removes the requirement to compare the implied fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount as part of step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. As a result, under this ASU, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value; however, the impairment loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. This standard is effective prospectively for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting, to provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period. The amendments will be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 There have been no other recent accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements that are of significance or potential significance to us. 2. Marketable Securities and Fair Value Measurements Marketable Securities Marketable securities, classified as available-for-sale, consisted of the following (in thousands): During the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , we did not reclassify any amount to earnings from accumulated other comprehensive loss related to unrealized gains or losses. The following table summarizes the cost and estimated fair value of marketable securities based on stated effective maturities as of June30, 2017 (in thousands): All available-for-sale securities have been classified as current based on management's ability to use the funds in current operations. Marketable securities in an unrealized loss position consisted of the following (in thousands): 8 Based on evaluation of securities that have been in a continuous loss position, we did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment charges during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 . Fair Value Measurements The following is a summary of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands): There were no transfers between Level1 and Level2 fair value measurement categories during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 . 3. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statement Details Inventory 9 Property and Equipment, Net Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $1.8 million each for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , and $3.6 million and $3.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 was $1.3 million . Purchased intangible assets, net, consisted of the following (in thousands): Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets was $0.4 million and $33,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $0.7 million and $0.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over a remaining weighted average useful life of 4.1 years. Future amortization expense for purchased intangible assets as of June30, 2017 is as follows (in thousands): Accrued Liabilities 10 Deferred Revenue 4. Credit Facility In November 2016, we entered into a loan and security agreement (the "2016 Credit Facility") with Silicon Valley Bank ("SVB"), as the lender. The 2016 Credit Facility provides a three -year, $25.0 million revolving credit subfacility, which includes a maximum of $25.0 million letter of credit subfacility. When the balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities minus outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit equals or exceeds $50.0 million , loans may be advanced under the 2016 Credit Facility up to the full $25.0 million . When the balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities minus outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit falls below $50.0 million , loans may be advanced under the 2016 Credit Facility based on a borrowing base equal to a specified percentage of the value of our eligible accounts receivable. The loans bear interest, at our option, at (i) the prime rate reported in The Wall Street Journal, minus 0.50% or (ii) a LIBOR rate determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility, plus 2.50% . We are required to pay customary closing fees, commitment fees and letter of credit fees for a facility of this size and type. Our obligations under the 2016 Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding our intellectual property. The 2016 Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants. In addition, the 2016 Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with an adjusted quick ratio of not less than 1.50:1.00, as determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility. As of June30, 2017 , we had no outstanding balance under the 2016 Credit Facility and were in compliance with all facility covenants. 5. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be party or subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of business, including proceedings and claims that relate to intellectual property matters. Some of these proceedings have involved, and may involve in the future, claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unascertainable damages. 11 Lease Commitments We lease various operating spaces in the United States, Asia and Europe under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements that expire on various dates through April 2022 . These arrangements require us to pay certain operating expenses, such as taxes, repairs and insurance, and contain renewal and escalation clauses. We recognize rent expense under these arrangements on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Guarantees and Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications to customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products. Other guarantees or indemnification arrangements include guarantees of product and service performance, and standby letters of credit for lease facilities and corporate credit cards. We have not recorded a liability related to these indemnification and guarantee provisions, and our guarantees and indemnification arrangements have not had any significant impact on our consolidated financial statements to date. 6. Equity Incentive Plans and Stock-Based Compensation Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Equity Incentive Plan The 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan") provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance-based RSUs ("PSUs"), stock appreciation rights, performance units and performance shares to our employees, consultants and members of our board of directors. In June2015, our board of directors adopted and our stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of the 2014Plan, which increased the number of shares available for issuance under the 2014 Plan by the number of shares granted under the 2008 Stock Plan (the "2008 Plan") that were or may in the future be canceled or otherwise forfeited or repurchased after March20,2014. A maximum of 8,310,566 shares may become available from such awards granted under the 2008 Plan for issuance under the 2014 Plan. As of December31, 2016 , we had 4,241,980 shares available for future grant. Annually, the shares authorized for the 2014 Plan increase by the least of (i) 8,000,000 shares, (ii) 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock on the last day of our immediately preceding fiscal year, or (iii)such other amount as determined by our Board of Directors. On January1, 2017 , the number of shares in the 2014 Plan increased by 3,394,376 shares, representing 5% of the prior year end's common stock outstanding. In addition, 266,799 shares granted under the 2008 Plan that had been canceled, forfeited or repurchased during the year ended December31, 2016 became available for issuance under the 2014 Plan. As of June30, 2017 , we had 5,927,133 shares available for future grant plus an additional 81,188 shares granted under the 2008 Plan that have been canceled, forfeited or repurchased during the six months ended June 30, 2017 . 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan The 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2014 Purchase Plan") provides for twenty-four month offering periods with four six-month purchase periods in each offering period. Employees purchase shares in each purchase period at 85% of the market value of our common stock at the beginning of the offering period or the end of the purchase period, whichever is lower. If the market value of our common stock at the end of the purchase period is less than the market value at the beginning of the offering period, participants will be withdrawn from the then current offering period following their purchase of shares, and automatically will be enrolled in the immediately following offering period. Participants may contribute up to 15% of their eligible compensation, subject to certain limits. Employees purchased 524,101 shares at an average price of $6.49 and 552,554 shares at an average price of $3.88 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The intrinsic value of shares purchased during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was $0.9 million and $1.3 million , respectively. The intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the market value on the date of purchase and the purchase price of the shares. As of June30, 2017 , we had 3,579,959 shares available for future issuanceunder the 2014 Purchase Plan. 12 Stock-Based Compensation A summary of our stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in thousands): As of June30, 2017 , we had $47.2 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock-based awards which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. The fair value of the options was estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: * We did not grant stock options during the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The fair value of the employee stock purchase rights was estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: Stock Options The following tables summarize our stock option activities and related information: 13 (1) Includes 81,188 shares of canceled stock options from the 2008 Plan that became available for issuance under the 2014 Plan. As of June30, 2017 , the aggregate intrinsic value represents the excess of the closing price of our common stock of $8.44 over the exercise price of the outstanding in-the-money options. The following table provides information pertaining to our stock options (in thousands, except weighted-average fair value): Stock Awards We have grantedRSUs to our employees, consultants and members of our board of directors, and PSUs and market performance-based restricted stock units ("MSUs") to certain executives. In 2014 and 2015, we granted 540,000 MSUsand 40,000 MSUs, respectively,to certain executives. These MSUs will vest if the closing price of our common stock remains above certain predetermined target prices for 20 consecutive trading days within a 4 -year period following the grant date, subject to continued service by the award holder. None of these MSUs were vested as of June30, 2017 . In February 2016, we granted 547,000 PSUs with certain financial and operational targets. Actual performance resulted in participants achieving 80% of target, or approximately 414,000 shares, which will vest in annual tranches through February 2020 subject to continued service vesting requirements. In October 2016, we granted 60,641 PSUs with certain financial and operational targets. To the extent they become eligible to vest upon achievement of the performance targets, these PSUs additionally are subject to service condition vesting requirements withscheduled vesting dates of March 2017 through June 2018. As of June30, 2017 , 12,128 shares had vested, 12,128 shares were forfeited, and the remaining shares were unvested and are eligible to vest based on achievement of performance targets. In March 2017, we granted 395,383 PSUs with certain financial targets. These PSUs will vest between ranges of 0% and 150% based on the actual performance, and are subject to service condition vesting requirements with 25% of the PSUs that become eligible to vest upon achievement of the performance targets scheduled to vest on each of the first, second, third and fourth year anniversaries following February 2017. None of these PSUs were vested as of June30, 2017 . 14 The following table summarizes our stock award activities and related information: The aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding awards is calculated based on the closing price of our common stock of $8.44 on June30, 2017 . The aggregate fair value of stock awards released as of the respective vesting dates was approximately $10.2 million and $1.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Stock Repurchase Program On October 27, 2016, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $20.0 million of our common stock over 12 months.Under the repurchase authorization, shares may be purchased from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means. The repurchase authorization may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. During the six months ended June 30, 2017 , we repurchased 99,735 shares at an average price of $8.18 as a part of a publicly announced program. The repurchased shares were retired upon delivery to us. As of June30, 2017 , we had $17.4 million remaining authorized to repurchase shares. 7. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net loss per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period plus potential dilutive common shares, including stock options, RSUs and employee stock purchase rights, unless the potential common shares are anti-dilutive. Since we had net losses in the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , none of the potential dilutive common shares were included in the computation of diluted shares for these periods, as inclusion of such shares would have been anti-dilutive. The following table presents common shares related to potentially dilutive shares excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive (in thousands): 8. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $0.1 million each for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 and $0.5 million and $0.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, which primarily consisted of foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the 15 financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We believe it is more likely than not that our federal and state net deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax asset will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. A valuation allowance is recorded for loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that such deferred tax assets will not be realized. Accordingly, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our U.S. and certain foreign net deferred tax assets as of June30, 2017 . We will continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net federal, state and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support recoverability of our deferred tax assets. We had $3.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 . We do not anticipate a material change to our unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months. Unrecognized tax benefits may change during the next twelve months for items that arise in the ordinary course of business. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized as part of our income tax provision in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. We are subject to taxation in the United States, various states, and several foreign jurisdictions. Because we have net operating loss and credit carryforwards, there are open statutes of limitations in which federal, state and foreign taxing authorities may examine our tax returns for all years from 2004 through the current period. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for our 2015 and 2014 tax returns. 9. Geographic Information The following table is a summary of revenue by geographic regions based on ship to location (in thousands): Our long-lived assets which include property and equipment, net and intangible assets, net is primarily located in the United States. No other geographic regions comprised 10% or more of our long-lived assets as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 . 16 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations ("MD&A") should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. In addition to historical information, the MD&A contains forward-looking statements. The words "believe," "may," "will," "potentially," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "would," "project," "plan" "expect," and similar expressions that convey uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our ability to maintain an adequate rate of revenue growth; our ability to successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities; our business plan and our ability to effectively manage our growth; costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims, if any; loss or delay of expected purchases by our largest end-customers; our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base; our ability to displace existing products in established markets; our ability to expand our leadership position in next-generation application delivery and server load balancing solutions; continued growth in markets relating to network security; our ability to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology; our ability to innovate new products and bring them to market in a timely manner; our ability to expand internationally; the effects of increased competition in our market and our ability to compete effectively; the effects of seasonal trends on our results of operations; our expectations concerning relationships with third parties; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to achieve or maintain profitability while continuing to invest in our sales, marketing and research and development teams; variations in product mix or geographic locations of our sales; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; increased cost requirements of being a public company and future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets; the cost and potential outcomes of litigation, if any; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand and intellectual property; future acquisitions of or investments in complementary companies, products, services or technologies; and our ability to effectively integrate operations of entities we have acquired or may acquire. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including those described in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and new risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking 17 statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of software and hardware solutions designed to address our customers' needs for secure application services. Our solutions enable our customers to secure and optimize the performance of their data center and cloud applications and secure their users, applications and infrastructure from internet, web and network threats at scale. We deliver a broad portfolio of hardware, software, and cloud offerings to our customers. These solutions are designed to give customers the visibility, performance, and security their applications need across both on-premise and cloud environments to produce greater agility for their businesses. Our customers include cloud providers, web-scale companies, service providers, government organizations and enterprises. Our product portfolio seeks to address many of the aforementioned challenges and solution requirements. The portfolio consists of six advanced application delivery and security products; Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC"), Lightning Application Delivery Service ("Lightning ADS"), Carrier Grade Network Address Translation ("CGN"), Threat Protection System ("TPS"), SSL Insight ("SSLi") and Convergent Firewall ("CFW"). They are available in a variety of form factors, such as optimized hardware appliances, bare metal software, virtual appliances, and cloud-native software. We derive revenue from sales of products and related support services. Products revenue is generated primarily by sales of hardware appliances with perpetual licenses to our embedded software solutions. We also derive revenue from licenses to, or subscription services for, software-only versions of our solutions. We generate services revenue primarily from sales of maintenance and support contracts. Our customers predominantly purchase maintenance and support in conjunction with purchases of our products. In addition, we also derive revenue from the sale of professional services. We sell our products globally to service providers and enterprises that depend on data center applications and networks to generate revenue and manage operations efficiently. Our end-customers operate in a variety of industries, including telecommunications, technology, industrial, retail, financial, gaming, education and government. Since inception, our customer base has grown rapidly. As of June30, 2017 , we had sold products to approximately 5,800 customers across 82 countries. We sell substantially all of our solutions through our high-touch sales organization as well as distribution channel partners, including distributors, value added resellers and system integrators, and fulfill nearly all orders globally through such partners. We believe this sales approach allows us to obtain the benefits of channel distribution, such as expanding our market coverage, while still maintaining face-to-face relationships with our end-customers. We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware products to original design manufacturers. We perform quality assurance and testing at our San Jose, Taiwan and Japan distribution centers, as well as at our manufacturers' locations. During the first half of 2017 , 52% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 19% from Japan and 29% from other geographical regions. During the first half of 2016 , 55% of our total revenue was generated from the United States, 20% from Japan and 25% from other geographical regions. Our enterprise customers accounted for 56% and 58% of our total revenue during the first half of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Our service provider customers accounted for 44% and 42% of our total revenue during the first half of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of large customers, including service providers, in any period.During the first half of 2017 and 2016 , purchases from our ten largest end-customers accounted for 40% and 35% of our total revenue, respectively. Sales to these large end-customers have typically been characterized by large but irregular purchases with long sales cycles. The timing of these purchases and the delivery of the purchased products are difficult to predict. As a consequence, any acceleration or delay in anticipated product purchases, by or deliveries to, our largest customers could materially impact our revenue and operating results in any quarterly period. This may cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and make them difficult to predict. As of June30, 2017 , we had $46.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and $85.8 million of marketable securities. Cash generated by operating activities was $13.8 million during the first half of 2017 as compared to $19.3 million during the same period of 2016 . We intend tocontinue to invest for long-term growth. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in our product development efforts to deliver new products and additional features in our current products to address customer needs. In addition, we may expand our global sales and marketing organizations, expand our distribution channel partner programs and increase awareness of our solutions on a global basis. Additionally, we will be investing in general and administrative resources to meet the requirements to operate as a public company. Our investments in growth in these areas may affect our short-term profitability. 18 Results of Operations A summary of our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 is as follows (dollars in thousands): 19 Revenue Our products revenue primarily consists of revenue from sales of our hardware appliances upon which our software is installed. Such software includes our ACOS software platform plus one of our ADC, CGN, TPS, SSLi or CFW solutions. Purchase of a hardware appliance includes a perpetual license to the included software. We recognize products revenue at the time of shipment, provided that all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. As a percentage of revenue, our products revenue may vary from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing of orders and delivery of products, cyclicality and seasonality, changes in currency exchange rates and the impact of significant transactions with unique terms and conditions. We generate services revenue from sales of post-contract support ("PCS"), which is bundled with sales of products and professional services. We offer tiered PCS services under renewable, fee-based PCS contracts, primarily including technical support, hardware repair and replacement parts, and software upgrades on a when-and-if-released basis. We recognize services revenue ratably over the term of the PCS contract, which is typically one year, but can be up to five years. 20 A summary of our total revenue is as follows (dollars in thousands): Total revenue decreased by $3.4 million , or 6% , during the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . This decrease was due to a $6.7 million decrease in products revenue, partially offset by $3.3 million increase in services revenue. Revenue from enterprise and service provider customers decreased 5% and 7% , respectively, in the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . Total revenue increased $3.0 million , or 3% , during the first half of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . This increase was due to a $6.4 million increase in services revenue, partially offset by a $3.4 million decrease in products revenue primarily attributable to a decline in ADC products revenue. Revenue from service provider and enterprise customers increased 8% and decreased 1% , respectively, during the first half of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 . Products revenue decreased $6.7 million , or 17% , and $3.4 million , or 4% , during the second quarter and the first half of 2017 , respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2016 . The decrease was primarily attributable to decreases from the United States and Japan as a number of deals in our pipeline did not close during the second quarter of 2017. 21 Services revenue increased $3.3 million , or 18% , and $6.4 million , or 18% , during the second quarter and the first half of 2017 , respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2016 . The increase was primarily attributable to the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the first half of 2017 , services revenue recognized from our installed customer base with contracts existing at the beginning of the year grew by 20% as compared to the same measure during the first half of 2016 . During the second quarter of 2017 , $28.6 million , or 53% of total revenue, was generated from the United States, which represents a 9% decrease as compared to the same period of 2016 . During the first half of 2017 , $59.3 million , or 52% of total revenue, was generated from the United States, which represents a 3% decrease as compared to the same period of 2016 . The decrease was primarily due to lower products revenue, partially offset by higher services revenue attributable to the increase in PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the second quarter of 2017 , $8.4 million , or 16% of total revenue, was generated from Japan, which represents a 23% decrease as compared to the same period of 2016 . During the first half of 2017 , $21.5 million , or 19% of total revenue, was generated from Japan, which represents a 2% decrease as compared to the same period of 2016 . The decrease was primarily due to lower products revenue, partially offset by higher services revenue from PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the second quarter of 2017 , $8.7 million , or 16% of total revenue, was generated from Asia Pacific regions excluding Japan, which represents a 12% increase as compared to the same period of 2016 . During the first half of 2017 , $18.9 million , or 17% of total revenue, was generated from Asia Pacific regions excluding Japan, which represents a 31% increase as compared to the same period of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to higher products revenue and to a lesser degree higher services revenue from PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. During the second quarter of 2017 , $6.8 million , or 13% of total revenue, was generated from EMEA, which represents a 16% increase as compared to the same period of 2016 . During the first half of 2017 , $12.0 million , or 10% of total revenue, was generated from EMEA, which represents a 10% increase as compared to the same period of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to higher products revenue and higher services revenue from PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Cost of revenue Cost of products revenue is primarily comprised of cost of third-party manufacturing services and cost of inventory for the hardware component of our products. Cost of products revenue also includes warehouse personnel costs, shipping costs, inventory write-downs, certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs, and expenses associated with logistics and quality control. Cost of services revenue is primarily comprised of personnel costs for our technical support, training and professional service teams. Cost of services revenue also includes the costs of inventory used to provide hardware replacements to end- customers under PCS contracts and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. A summary of our cost of revenue is as follows (dollars in thousands): 22 Gross Margin Gross margin may vary and be unpredictable from period to period due to a variety of factors. These may include the mix of revenue from each of our regions, the mix of our products sold within a period, discounts provided to customers, inventory write-downs and foreign currency exchange rates. Our sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, however, in Japan they are denominated in Japanese yen. Changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen will therefore affect our revenue and gross margin. Any of the factors noted above can generate either a favorable or unfavorable impact on gross margin. A summary of gross profit and gross margin is as follows (dollars in thousands): Productsgross margin remained relatively unchanged during the second quarter and the firsthalf of 2017 as compared to the same periods of 2016 . Services gross margins increased 2.6% and 3.7% during the second quarter and the first half of 2017 as compared to the same periods of 2016 , respectively, primarily due to higher services revenue while the personnel costs related to support, professional services and maintenance remained relatively constant. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and litigation and settlement expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs which consist of wages, benefits, bonuses, and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. Personnel costs also include stock-based compensation. We expect our personnel costs to increase as our business continues to grow and we hire new employees. 23 A summary of our operating expenses is as follows (dollars in thousands): Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses are our largest functional category of operating expenses and primarily consist of personnel costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of marketing programs, trade shows, consulting services, promotional materials, demonstration equipment, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.2 million , or 5% , during the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily attributable to a $1.0 million decrease in business and office expense and a $0.3 million decrease in personnel costs, partially offset by a $0.1 million increase in facilities expense. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.7 million , or 3% , during the first half of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily attributable to a $0.8 million decrease in personnel costs, a $0.6 million decrease in business and office expense and a $0.5 million decrease in travel and entertainment, partially offset by a $0.2 million increase in facilities expense. Sales and marketing expenses may increase in the future as we expand our sales presence in existing countries and into new countries. Research and Development Research and development efforts are focused on new product development and on developing additional functionality for our existing products. These expenses primarily consist of personnel costs, and, to a lesser extent, prototype materials, depreciation and certain allocated facilities and information technology infrastructure costs. We expense research and development costs as incurred. Research and development expense increased $2.0 million , or 14% , during the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily attributable to a $1.4 million increase in personnel costs due to higher headcount, which includes a $0.7 million increase in stock-based compensation, a $0.3 million increase in depreciation expense and a $0.3 million increase in contractors and consultants. Research and development expense increased $4.3 million , or 15% , during the first half of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily attributable to a $3.0 million increase in personnel costs due to higher headcount, which includes 24 a $1.0 million increase in stock-based compensation, a $0.7 million increase in depreciation expense and a $0.4 million increase in contractors and consultants. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel costs, professional services and office expenses. General and administrative personnel costs include executive, finance, human resources, information technology, facility and legal (excluding litigation) related expenses. Professional services primarily consist of fees for outside accounting, tax, legal, recruiting and other administrative services. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.2 million , or 3% , during the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily attributable to a $0.3 million decrease in business and office expense, partially offset by a $0.1 million increase in personnel costs. General and administrative expenses increased $0.3 million , or 2% , during the first half of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily due to a $0.6 million increase in personnel costs, a $0.2 million increase in contractors and consultants and a $0.2 million increase in recruiting costs, partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease in business and office expense. General and administrative expenses may increase in the future. Litigation and Settlement Expense Litigation and settlement expense is comprised of legal expenses incurred related to litigation and, if applicable, charges for litigation reserves. Litigation expenses consist of professional fees incurred in defending ourselves against litigation matters and are expensed as incurred when professional services are provided. The litigation reserve, if any, consists of accruals we make related to estimated losses in pending legal proceedings. Litigation reserves, if any, are adjusted as we change our estimates or make payments in damages or settlements. We had no litigation and settlement expense during the first half of 2017 . Litigation and settlement expense of $0.2 million and $2.0 million during the second quarter and the first half of 2016 , respectively, was due to the class action and the derivative action lawsuits which were settled in the second quarter of 2016. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs. At June30, 2017 , we had no outstanding balances on our credit facility.We expect to continue to incur commitment fees associated with the undrawn balance of our credit facility.At such time we choose to draw down on the credit facility, we would reduce the commitment fees accrued and increase the interest on outstanding balances. Interest expense was immaterial and remained relatively unchanged during the second quarter and the first half of 2017 as compared to the same periods of 2016 . Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income consists primarily of interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Other income (expense) consists primarily of foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $1.0 million , or 103% , during the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily attributable to decrease in foreign exchange gains. Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $0.4 million , or 34% , during the first half of 2017 as compared to the same period of 2016 primarily due to a $0.7 million decrease in foreign exchange gains, partially offset by a $0.2 million increase in interest income attributable to increases in our investment in marketable securities. 25 Provision for Income Taxes We recorded income tax provision of $0.1 million each for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 and $0.5 million and $0.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, which primarily consisted of foreign taxes. Incomes taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax bases using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We currently maintain a valuation allowance on federal and state deferred tax assets, and we will continue to maintain a valuation allowance against all of our U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of this allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June30, 2017 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $46.4 million , including $3.9 million held outside the United States in our foreign subsidiaries, and $85.8 million of marketable securities. We currently do not have any plans to repatriate our earnings from our foreign operations. As of June30, 2017 , we had working capital of $100.7 million , accumulated deficit of $255.1 million and total stockholders' equity of $89.6 million . We plan to continue to invest for long-term growth and our investment may increase. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and other available financial resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the introduction of new and enhanced product and service offerings and the continuing market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. On October 27, 2016, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $20.0 million of our common stock over 12 months.Under the repurchase authorization, shares may be purchased from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means. The repurchase authorization may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at our discretion. During the six months ended June 30, 2017 , we repurchased 99,735 shares at an average price of $8.18 per share and used approximately $0.8 million of cash. As of June30, 2017 , we had $17.4 million remaining authorized to repurchase shares. In addition, as described in Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies to the condensed consolidated financial statements, we may be from time to time involved in litigation. Any adverse settlements or judgments in any litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash balances and cash flows in the period in which such events occur. Credit Agreements In November 2016, we entered into the 2016 Credit Facility with SVB, as lender. The 2016 Credit Facility provides a three -year, $25.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a maximum of $25.0 million letter of credit subfacility. When the balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities minus outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit equals or exceeds $50.0 million, loans may be advanced under the 2016 Credit Facility up to the full $25.0 million. When the balance of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities minus outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit falls below $50.0 million, loans may be advanced under the 2016 Credit Facility based on a borrowing base equal to a specified percentage of the value of our eligible accounts receivable. The loans bear interest, at our option, at (i) the prime rate reported in The Wall Street Journal, minus 0.50% or (ii) a LIBOR rate determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility, plus 2.50%. Our obligations under the 2016 Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding our intellectual property. The 2016 Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, in each case subject to customary exceptions, and customary events of default. In addition, the 2016 Credit Facility requires us to maintain compliance with an adjusted quick ratio of not less than 1.50:1.00, as determined in accordance with the 2016 Credit Facility. As of June30, 2017 , 26 we hadnooutstanding balance under the 2016 Credit Facility and were in compliance with all facility covenants. Statements of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow related activities (in thousands): Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash provided by operating activitiesis driven primarily by sales of our products and management of working capital investments. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel-related expenditures, manufacturing costs, marketing and promotional expenses and costs related to our facilities. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected principally by the extent to which we increase spending on our business and our working capital requirements. During the six months ended June 30, 2017 , cash provided by operating activities was $13.8 million , consisting of a net loss of $12.2 million , non-cash charges of $14.0 million and cash increase resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $11.9 million . Our non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $9.3 million and depreciation and amortization expenses of $4.3 million . The net change in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflects an inflow from the changes in accounts receivable of $25.1 million , and an outflow from the changes in accrued liabilities of $5.5 million , prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.2 million , inventory of $2.2 million , accounts payable of $1.8 million and deferred revenue of $0.4 million . The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to improved cash collections. The decrease in accrued liabilities was primarily due to lower accrued bonuses and commissions. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to prepaid insurance and software subscription renewals. The increase in inventory was primarily due to the inventory build-up for anticipated future demand. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of vendor invoice payments. The decrease in deferred revenue was primarily due to lower contract renewals. During thesix months ended June 30, 2016, cash provided by operating activities was$19.3 million, consisting of a net loss of$14.5 million, non-cash charges of$13.2 millionand cash increase resulting from the net change in operating assets and liabilities of a$20.5 million. Our non-cash charges consisted primarily ofstock-based compensation expense of $8.5 million,depreciation and amortization expenses of $3.7 million andother non-cash items of $1.1 million. The net changes in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflects an inflow from the changes in accounts receivable of $17.5 million, deferred revenue of $3.0 million and inventory of $2.8 million, and an outflow from the changes in accounts payable of $2.3 million and prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.5 million. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to improved cash collections. The increase in deferred revenue was due to an increase in PCS sales in connection with our increased installed customer base. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities was primarily due to the timing of vendor invoice payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2017 , cash used in investing activities was $2.0 million , consisting of purchases of property and equipment of $1.5 million and net purchases of marketable securities of $0.5 million . During thesix months ended June 30, 2016, cash used in investing activities was$92.0 million, consisting ofnet purchases of marketable securities of $85.1 million, payment for the acquisition of Appcito Inc. of $4.4 million and purchases of property and equipment of $2.6 million. 27 Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2017 , cash provided by financing activities was $5.7 million , primarily consisting of proceeds from common stock issuances under our equity incentive plans of $7.2 million , partially offset by repurchase and retirement of common stock of $0.8 million and payment of contingent consideration of $0.7 million . During thesix months ended June 30, 2016, cash provided by financing activities was $3.3 million , primarily consisting of proceeds from common stock issuances under our equity incentive plans. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations consist of capital leases, operating leases, purchase commitments and other contractual obligations. There have been no material changes to these obligations outside the ordinary course of business during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the contractual obligations disclosed in MD&A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June30, 2017 , we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed inMD&A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 .