ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 3 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss (in thousands, except share and per share data) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 4 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity (in thousands, except per share data) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 5 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) (in thousands) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 6 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Nature of Business Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, the Company changed its legal name from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. PIH holds all of the capital stock of three subsidiaries: Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), Maison Managers Inc. ("MMI"), and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"). Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Prior to March 31, 2014, the PIH was a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, PIH completed an initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock. On June 13, 2014, PIH completed a follow-on offering of its common stock to the public. Through the combination of the Company's IPO and follow-on offering, PIH issued approximately five million shares of its common stock. As of March 31, 2016 KAI held approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock, which is equivalent to 17.6% of our outstanding shares. Maison began providing homeowners insurance, manufactured home insurance and dwelling fire insurance to individuals in Louisiana in December 2012. Maison writes both full peril property policies as well as wind/hail only exposures in Louisiana and distributes its policies through a network of independent insurance agents. On May 13, 2015 the Company was notified by the Texas Department of Insurance that a Certificate of Authority had been granted to Maison, allowing us to begin writing insurance in the State of Texas. Maison began assuming wind/hail only insurance for commercial properties in Texas beginning in June 2015. In September 2015, Maison began writing manufactured home policies in the State of Texas on a direct basis. In addition to the voluntary policies Maison writes, we have participated in the last three rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1st of each year. As the State of Louisiana has not historically been in the business of serving as an insurer, an insurance "take-out" program was implemented to reduce the number of properties insured by Citizens. Under this program, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by Citizens. MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary, known as a managing general agency and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting, and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts with independent agents for policy sales and services, and also contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of both the Louisiana Department of Insurance ("LDI") and Texas Department of Insurance ("TDI"). On January 2, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the membership interest of ClaimCor, a claims and underwriting technical solutions company. Maison processes claims made by our policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. MMI has ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agents we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. 2. Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation: These statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Principles of Consolidation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. 7 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements: The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Changes in estimates are recorded in the accounting period in which the change is determined. The critical accounting estimates and assumptions in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, the valuation of fixed income and equity securities, the valuation of net deferred income taxes, the valuation of various securities we have issued in conjunction with the termination of the management services agreement with 1347 Advisors, LLC, the valuation of deferred policy acquisition costs and goodwill, and stock-based compensation expense. Investments: Investments in fixed income securities and equity investments in common stock are classified as available-for-sale and reported at estimated fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, until sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized, at which point the cumulative unrealized gains or losses are transferred to the consolidated statement of operations. Limited liability investments include investments in limited liability companies in which the Company's interests are deemed minor and therefor, are accounted for under the cost method of accounting which approximates their fair value. Short-term investments, which consist of investments with original maturities between three months and one year, are reported at cost, which approximates fair value due to their short-term nature. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are determined on a first-in, first-out basis, and are included in net investment income. Interest income is included in net investment income and is recorded as it accrues. The Company accounts for its investments using trade date accounting. The Company conducts a quarterly review to identify and evaluate investments that show objective indications of possible impairment. Impairment is charged to the statement of operations if the fair value of the instrument falls below its amortized cost and the decline is considered other-than-temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company's ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents include cash and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. Premiums Receivable: Premiums receivable include premium balances due and uncollected and installment premiums not yet due from agents and insureds. Premiums receivable are reported net of an estimated allowance for credit losses. Reinsurance: Reinsurance premiums, losses, and loss adjustment expenses are accounted for on a basis consistent with those used in accounting for the original policies issued and the terms of the reinsurance contracts. Premiums and losses ceded to other companies have been reported as a reduction of premium revenue and incurred net losses and loss adjustment expenses. A reinsurance recoverable is recorded for that portion of paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses that are ceded to other companies. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs: The Company defers commissions, premium taxes and other underwriting and agency expenses that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable. 8 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which premiums are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred, as opposed to being deferred and amortized as the premium is earned. The method followed in determining the deferred policy acquisition costs limits the deferral to its realizable value by giving consideration to estimated future loss and loss adjustment expenses to be incurred as revenues are earned. Anticipated investment income is included in determining the realizable value of the deferred policy acquisition costs. Changes in estimates, if any, are recorded in the accounting period in which they are determined. Income Taxes: The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes, whereby deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for (i) the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and (ii) loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the date of enactment. Future tax benefits are recognized to the extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not and a valuation allowance is established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Current federal income taxes are charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is reported at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over estimated useful life which range from seven years for furniture, five years for vehicles, three years for computer equipment, and the shorter of estimated useful life or the term of the lease for leasehold improvements. Property and equipment is estimated to have no salvage value at its useful life-end. Rent expense for the Company's office leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Rent expense was $98 and $48 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Intangible Assets: Intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet represents a non-compete agreement associated with our acquisition of ClaimCor in January 2015. The Company amortizes identified intangible assets to expense over their estimated lives using the straight-line method. The Company evaluates intangible assets for impairment as events and circumstances change or at minimum, on an annual basis. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves: Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred but not yet reported loss events and the related estimated loss adjustment expenses. The Company performs a continuing review of its loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including its reserving techniques as well as the impact of reinsurance on our loss reserves. The loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are also reviewed at minimum, on an annual basis by qualified third party actuaries. Since the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on estimates, the ultimate liability may be more or less than such reserves. The effects of changes in such estimated reserves are included in the results of income in the period in which the estimates are changed. Such changes in estimates could occur in a future period and may be material to the Company's results of operations and financial position in such period. Concentration of Credit Risk: Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk include investments, cash, premiums receivable, and amounts due from reinsurers on losses incurred. The Company maintains its cash with three major U.S. domestic banking institutions. Such amounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") up to $250 per institution. At March 31, 2016 the Company held funds in excess of these FDIC insured amounts. The terms of these deposits are on demand to mitigate some of the associated risk. The Company has not incurred losses related to these deposits. 9 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company has not experienced significant losses related to premiums receivable from its policyholders and management believes that amounts provided as an allowance for credit losses is adequate. The Company has not experienced any losses on amounts due from reinsurers. In order to limit the credit risk associated with amounts potentially due from reinsurers, the Company uses several different reinsurers, all of which have an A.M. Best Rating of A- (Excellent) or better. Absent such rating, the Company has required its reinsurers to place collateral on deposit with an independent institution under a trust agreement for the Company's benefit. The Company also has risk associated with the lack of geographic diversification due to the fact that Maison exclusively underwrites policies in Louisiana and Texas. The Company insures personal property located in 63 of the 64 parishes in the State of Louisiana. As of March31, 2016, these policies are concentrated within these parishes as follows: Jefferson Parish 16.8%, Saint Tammany Parish 15.7%, East Baton Rouge Parish 7.5%, Orleans Parish 6.4%, Terrebonne Parish 5.9%, Livingston Parish 5.33%. No other parish individually has over 5.0% of the policies in force as of March 31, 2016. The remaining 56 parishes combine to equal 37.1% of the total policies in force as of March 31, 2016. On a direct basis, Maison writes in 66 of the 254 counties that comprise the State of Texas, however no single county represents over 5.0% of our policies in force as of March 31, 2016. Revenue Recognition: Premium revenue is recognized on a pro rata basis over the term of the respective policy contract. Unearned premium reserves represent the portion of premium written that is applicable to the unexpired term of policies in force. Service charges on installment premiums are recognized as income upon receipt of related installment payments and are reflected in other income. Revenue from policy fees is deferred and recognized over the terms of the respective policy period, with revenue reflected in other income. Any customer payment received is applied first to any service charge or policy fee due, with the remaining amount applied toward any premium due. Ceded premiums are charged to income over the applicable term of the various reinsurance contracts with third party reinsurers. Ceded unearned premiums represent the unexpired portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers and are reported as an asset on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Premiums collected in advance occur when the policyholder premium is paid in advance of the effective commencement period of the policy and are recorded as a liability on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Stock-Based Compensation: The Company has accounted for stock-based compensation under the provisions of ASC Topic 718 Stock Compensation which requires the use of the fair-value based method to determine compensation for all arrangements under which employees and others receive shares of stock or equity instruments (stock options and common stock purchase warrants). The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model using assumptions for expected volatility, expected dividends, expected term, and the risk-free interest rate. The fair value of each stock option award is recorded as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the period in which the stock options vest, with a corresponding increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company has also issued restricted stock units ("RSUs") to certain of its employees which have been accounted for as equity based awards since, upon vesting, they are required to be settled in the Company's common shares. The Company used a Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate the fair value of these awards upon grant date as the vesting of these RSUs occurs based solely upon market-based conditions. The fair value of each RSU is recorded as compensation expense over the derived service period, as determined by the valuation model. Should the market-based condition be achieved prior to the expiration of the derived service period, any unrecognized cost will be recorded as compensation expense in the period in which the RSUs actually vest. Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The carrying values of certain financial instruments, including cash, short-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value due to their short-term nature. The Company measures the fair value of financial instruments in accordance with GAAP which defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset (or liability) in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. GAAP also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. 10 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Earnings (loss) Per Common Share: Basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the respective period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive outstanding stock options, warrants or other convertible financial instruments. Potential common shares outstanding are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings (loss) per share if their effect is anti-dilutive. Operating Segments: The Company operates in a single segment property and casualty insurance. 3. Recently Issued Accounting Standards ASU 2015-09: Financial Services Insurance: In May 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2015-09: Financial Services Insurance (Topic 944): Disclosures about Short-Duration Contracts. This update provides for an increase in the transparency of accounting estimates made by companies in the measurement of short-duration contracts and unpaid claim and claim adjustment expense liabilities by requiring additional disclosures, as well as improvements to existing disclosures. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, applied retrospectively, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. Most significantly, ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of an investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income (loss). ASU 2016-01 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017 and will be applied using a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Adoption of ASU 2016-01 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position, cash flows, or total comprehensive income, but could impact the Company's results of operations and earnings (loss) per share as changes in fair value will be presented in net income (loss) rather than other comprehensive income (loss). ASU 2016-02: Leases: In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02: Leases. ASU 2016-02 was issued to improve the financial reporting of leasing transactions. Under current guidance for lessees, leases are only included on the balance sheet if certain criteria, classifying the agreement as a capital lease, are met. This update will require the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability, discounted to the present value, for all leases that extend beyond 12 months. For operating leases, the asset and liability will be expensed over the lease term on a straight-line basis, with all cash flows included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. For finance leases, interest on the lease liability will be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income and the repayment of the principal portion of the lease liability will be classified as a financing activity while the interest component will be included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, leases will be recognized and measured at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. 11 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) ASU 2016-09: Stock Compensation: In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09: Compensation Stock Compensation: Improvement to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 was issued to simplify the accounting for share-based payment awards. The guidance requires that all tax effects related to share-based payment be made through the statement of operations at the time of settlement as opposed to the current guidance that requires excess tax benefits to be recognized in additional paid-in-capital. ASU 2016-09 also removes the requirement to delay recognition of a tax benefit until it reduces current taxes payable. The change is required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative effect adjustment to opening accumulated deficit. Additionally, all tax related cash flows resulting from share-based payments are to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows, a departure from the current requirement which presents tax benefits as an inflow from financing activities and an outflow from operating activities. ASU 2016-09 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company does not believe the adoption of ASU 2016-09 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 4. Investments A summary of the amortized cost, estimated fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses on the Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 is as follows. The table below summarizes the Company's fixed income securities at March 31, 2016 by contractual maturity periods. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. 12 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The following table highlights the aggregate unrealized loss position, by security type, of fixed income and equity securities in unrealized loss positions as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. The tables segregate the holdings based on the period of time the investments have been continuously held in unrealized loss positions. There were 32 and 107 fixed income investments that were in unrealized loss positions as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The Company held no equity securities in unrealized loss positions at either date. Under the terms of the certificate of authority granted to Maison by the Texas Department of Insurance, Maison is required to pledge securities totaling approximately $2,000 with the State of Texas. Maison deposited the required securities with the State of Texas on May 13, 2015. These securities consist of various fixed income securities listed in the preceding tables which have an amortized cost basis of $2,003 and estimated fair value of $2,030 as of March 31, 2016. The Company's other investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $298 through March 31, 2016. The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. Other-than-Temporary Impairment: The establishment of an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment requires a number of judgments and estimates. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of the individual investments to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. The analysis includes some or all of the following procedures as deemed appropriate by the Company: considering the extent, and length of time during which the market value has been below cost; identifying any circumstances which management believes may impact the recoverability of the unrealized loss positions; obtaining a valuation analysis from a third-party investment manager regarding the intrinsic value of these investments based upon their knowledge and experience combined with market-based valuation techniques; reviewing the historical trading volatility and trading range of the investment and certain other similar investments; assessing if declines in market value are other-than-temporary for debt instruments based upon the investment grade credit ratings from third-party credit rating agencies; assessing the timeliness and completeness of principal and interest payment due from the investee; and assessing the Company's ability and intent to hold these investments until the impairment may be recovered 13 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The risks and uncertainties inherent in the assessment methodology used to determine declines in market value that are other-than-temporary include, but may not be limited to, the following: the opinions of professional investment managers could be incorrect; the past trading patterns of investments may not reflect their future valuation trends; the credit ratings assigned by credit rating agencies may be incorrect due to unforeseen events or unknown facts related to the investee company's financial situation; and the historical debt service record of an investment may not be indicative of future performance and may not reflect a company's unknown underlying financial problems. The Company has reviewed currently available information regarding investments with estimated fair values that are less than their carrying amounts and believes that these unrealized losses are primarily due to temporary market and sector-related factors rather than to issuer-specific factors. The Company does not intend to sell these investments in the short term, and it is not likely that it will be required to sell these investments before the recovery of their amortized cost. Accordingly, all of the Company's investments were in good standing and there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments on the Company's investments for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. The Company does not have any exposure to subprime mortgage-backed investments. Net investment income for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 is as follows: 5. Reinsurance The Company reinsures, or cedes, a portion of its written premiums on an excess of loss basis to non-affiliated insurers in order to limit its loss exposure. Although reinsurance is intended to reduce the Company's exposure risk, the ceding of insurance does not legally discharge the Company from its primary liability for the full amount of coverage under its policies. If the reinsurer fails to meet its obligations under the applicable reinsurance agreement, the Company would still be required to pay the insured for the loss. Under the Company's per-risk treaty, reinsurance recoveries are received for up to $1,750 in excess of a retention of $250 for each risk. The Company ceded $109 and $46 in written premiums under its per-risk treaties for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Under the Company's excess of loss treaty, for each catastrophic event occurring within a 144-hour period, the Company receives reinsurance recoveries of up to $121,000 in excess of a retention of $4,000 per event. The Company has also procured another layer of reinsurance protection that may be used for any event above $121,000, up to a maximum recovery of $15,000. This $15,000 second layer of coverage applies in total to all events occurring during the treaty year of June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016. The aggregate loss the Company would retain for two catastrophes occurring during the treaty year is $5,000. The Company ceded $3,462 and $2,692 in written premiums under its excess of loss treaties for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In June 2015, we began writing business through a quota-share agreement with Brotherhood Mutual Insurance Company ("Brotherhood"). Through this agreement, we act as a reinsurer, and have assumed wind/hail only exposures on certain churches and related structures Brotherhood insures throughout the State of Texas. Our quota-share percentage varies from 35%-100% of wind/hail premium written by Brotherhood, dependent upon the geographic location (coastal areas versus non-coastal areas) within the State of Texas. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, we have written $398 in assumed premiums and have 615 in-force policies under this agreement as of March 31, 2016. 14 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The impact of reinsurance treaties on the Company's financial statements is as follows: 6. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other policy processing fees incurred which are related to successful efforts to acquire new or renewal insurance contracts. Acquisition costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which the related revenues are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred. DPAC as well as the related amortization expense associated with DPAC for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, is as follows: 7. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves The Company continually revises its estimates of the ultimate financial impact of claims made. A significant degree of judgment is required to determine amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements for the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The process for establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in predicting future results of both known and unknown loss events. The process of establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relies on the judgment and opinions of a large number of individuals, including the opinions of the Company's independent actuaries. 15 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company's evaluation of the adequacy of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves includes a re-estimation of the liability for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relating to each preceding financial year compared to the liability that was previously established. The results of this comparison and the changes in the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, net of amounts recoverable from reinsurers, for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 8. Income Taxes Income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2016 varies from the amount that would result by applying the applicable statutory federal income tax rate of 34% to income before income taxes as summarized in the following table: The Company carries a net deferred income tax asset of $442 and $506 at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, all of which the Company believes is more likely than not to be fully realized based upon management's assessment of future taxable income. Significant components of the Company's net deferred tax assets are as follows: As of March 31, 2016, the Company had no unrecognized tax benefits. The Company analyzed its tax positions in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes, and has determined that there are currently no uncertain tax positions. The Company generally recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). 9. Net Earnings (Loss) Per Share Net earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding during the periods presented. In calculating diluted earnings per share, those potential common shares that are found to be anti-dilutive are excluded from the calculation. The table below provides a summary of the numerators and denominators used in determining basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. 16 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The following potentially dilutive securities outstanding at March 31, 2016 and 2015 have been excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as their effect would be anti-dilutive. 10. Options, Warrants, and Restricted Stock Units The Company has established an equity incentive plan for employees and directors of the Company (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to create incentives designed to motivate recipients to contribute toward the Company's growth and success, and also to attract and retain persons of outstanding competence, and provide such persons with an opportunity to acquire an equity interest in the Company. In April 2015, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Plan to allow for the issuance of additional award types under the Plan. In addition to non-qualified stock options issuable under the Plan, the amendment provides for the issuance of restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance shares, performance cash awards, and other stock-based awards. The Plan provides for the issuance of 354,912 shares of common stock. As of March 31, 2016, both stock options and RSUs have been issued to the Company's employees under the Plan and there remains 156,956 shares available for future issuance under the Plan. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's stock options for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The following table summarizes the Company's stock options outstanding as of March 31, 2016. Stock Options Outstanding as of March 31, 2016 On May 29, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors granted RSUs to certain of its executive officers under the Plan. Each RSU granted entitles the grantee to one share of the Company's common stock upon the vesting date of the RSU. The RSUs vest as follows: (i) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share and; (ii) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share. Prior to the vesting of the RSUs, the grantee will not be entitled to any dividends declared on the Company's common stock. The RSUs do not expire, however, should the grantee discontinue employment with the Company for any reason other than death or disability, all unvested RSUs will be deemed forfeited on the date employment is discontinued. The following table summarizes RSU activity for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Due to the fact that the RSUs granted vest based upon market conditions, the Company used a Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate fair value as of the date of grant. Based on the Monte Carlo model, the estimated fair value on grant date was determined to be $28, which the Company will recognize as compensation expense over a derived service period of approximately two years. 17 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Total stock based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was $10 and $6, respectively. As of March 31, 2016, total unrecognized stock compensation expense of $58 remained, which will be recognized through March 31, 2018. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's common stock warrants for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The following table summarizes the Company's warrants outstanding as of March 31, 2016. 11. Shareholders' Equity Treasury Shares On December 1, 2014, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to 500,000 shares of the Company's common stock. During the quarter ended March 31, 2016, the Company repurchased 26,149 shares, resulting in the aggregate repurchase of 250,000 shares of our common stock through March 31, 2016 at an aggregate purchase price of $1,917, or $7.67 per share, including all fees and commissions. On January 29, 2016, the Company retired these shares, resulting in a reclassification of the purchase price to additional paid in capital. In November 2015, our Board of Directors approved the continuation of the repurchase program such that we anticipate repurchases to continue to be made periodically at our discretion through the period ending December 31, 2016. Our decisions around the timing, volume, and nature of the share repurchases will be dependent upon market conditions, applicable securities laws, as well as other factors. 12. Related Party Transactions Related party transactions are carried out in the normal course of operations and are measured in part by the amount of consideration paid or received as established and agreed by the parties. Management believes that consideration paid for such services in each case approximates fair value. Except where disclosed elsewhere in these consolidated financial statements, the following is a summary of related party transactions. Performance Share Grant Agreement On March 26, 2014, the Company entered into a Performance Share Grant Agreement ("PSGA") with Kingsway America, Inc. ("KAI", a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI), whereby KAI will be entitled to receive up to an aggregate of 375,000 shares of PIH common stock upon achievement of certain milestones regarding the Company's stock price. Pursuant to the terms of the PSGA, if at any time the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds: (i) $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock; (ii) $15.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 125,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clause (i) herein); and (iii) $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 250,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) herein). The shares of common stock granted to KAI will have a valuation equal to the last sales price of PIH common stock on the day prior to such grant. As of March 31, 2016, the Company had not issued any shares under the PSGA. 18 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Termination of Management Services Agreement As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015. 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares") A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of fifteen dollars per share. The Warrant expires seven years from date of issuance. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds ten dollars per share for any twenty trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of twenty five dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On February 22, 2016 the Company's board of directors authorized a dividend payment on the Preferred Shares for shareholders of record as of February 23, 2016. Accordingly, on February 24, 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing the first annual dividend payment the Company has made on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to twenty five dollars per share outstanding plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Accounting Treatment of the Buyout Transaction As a result of the termination of the MSA agreement, the Company recognized total expenses in the amount of $5,421 for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 as follows: The Company applied the guidance outlined in ASC 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity in recording the issuance of the Series B Preferred Shares. Due to the fact that the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption date of February 24, 2020, the guidance required that we classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2015, as opposed to recording the value of the shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the $4,200 redemption amount including all dividends expected to be paid on the Preferred Shares while outstanding, discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, total amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to interest expense through February 24, 2020 using the effective interest method. 19 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company applied the guidance outlined in ASC 505-50 Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees in recording the issuance of the Warrants and Performance Shares by recognizing an increase to equity for the estimated fair value for both instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2015. We estimated the fair value of the Warrants on grant date based upon the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of the Warrants were as follows: We utilized a Monte Carlo simulation model to determine the estimated fair value of the Performance Shares due to the fact that shares are only issuable based upon the achievement of certain market conditions. This pricing model uses multiple simulations to evaluate the probability of achieving the market conditions, as well as a number of other inputs (some of which are Level 3 inputs as defined by the FASB) with respect to the expected volatility and dividend yield (among other inputs) of the Company's common shares. Based upon these models, the estimated fair value of both the Warrants and Performance Shares was determined to be $1,010 on the date of grant. 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The table below details the change in the balance of each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015. 14. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is best evidenced by quoted bid or ask price, as appropriate, in an active market. Where bid or ask prices are not available, such as in an illiquid or inactive market, the closing price of the most recent transaction of that instrument subject to appropriate adjustments as required is used. Where quoted market prices are not available, the quoted prices of similar financial instruments or valuation models with observable market based inputs are used to estimate the fair value. These valuation models may use multiple observable market inputs, including observable interest rates, foreign exchange rates, index levels, credit spreads, equity prices, counterparty credit quality, corresponding market volatility levels and option volatilities. Minimal management judgment is required for fair values calculated using quoted market prices or observable market inputs for models. Greater subjectivity is required when making valuation adjustments for financial instruments in inactive markets or when using models where observable parameters do not exist. Also, the calculation of estimated fair value is based on market conditions at a specific point in time and may not be reflective of future fair values. For the Company's financial instruments carried at cost or amortized cost, the book value is not adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in fair value due to market fluctuations, including those due to interest rate changes, as it is the Company's intention to hold them until there is a recovery of fair value, which may be to maturity. The Company classifies its investments in fixed income and equity securities as available-for-sale and reports these investments at fair value. Fair values of fixed income securities for which no active market exists are derived from quoted market prices of similar instruments or other third-party evidence. 20 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The FASB has issued guidance that defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for and asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal, or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants. This guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires and entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The guidance categorizes assets and liabilities at fair value into one of three different levels depending on the observation of the inputs employed in the measurements, as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets providing the most reliable measurement of fair value since it is directly observable. Level 2 inputs to the valuation methodology which include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets. These inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly for substantially the full-term of the financial instrument. Level 3 inputs to the valuation methodology which are unobservable and significant to the measurement of fair value. Financial instruments measured at fair value as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 in accordance with this guidance are as follows. 15. Statutory Requirements The Company's insurance subsidiary, Maison prepares statutory basis financial statements in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the LDI. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include state laws, rules and regulations as well as accounting practices and rules as outlined in a variety of publications of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices that are not prescribed, but instead have been specifically requested by an insurer and allowed by the state in which the insurer is domiciled (in Maison's case, Louisiana). Permitted practices may differ from state to state, company to company within a state, and may change in the future. In converting from statutory accounting basis to U.S. GAAP, typical adjustments include the deferral of acquisition costs (which are all charged to operations as incurred on a statutory basis), the inclusion of statutorily non-admitted assets on the balance sheet, the inclusion of net unrealized holding gains or losses related to investments included on the balance sheet, as well as the inclusion of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the statement of operations. Statutory Surplus and Capital Requirements In order to retain its certificate of authority in the State of Louisiana, Maison is required to maintain a minimum capital surplus of $5,000. As of March 31, 2016 Maison's capital surplus was $16,241. The LDI employs risk-based capital ("RBC") reports to monitor Maison's financial condition. Risk-based capital is determined in accordance with a formula adopted by the NAIC which takes into consideration the covariance between asset risk, credit risk, underwriting risk, and other business risks. The RBC report determines whether Maison falls into the "no action" level or one of the four action levels set forth in the Louisiana Insurance Code. In order to retain its certificate of authority in the State of Texas, Maison is required to maintain an RBC ratio of 300% or more. As of March 31, 2016, Maison's RBC ratio was above 300%. 21 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) States routinely require deposits of assets for the protection of policyholders either in those states or for all policyholders. As of March 31, 2016, Maison held investment securities with a fair value of approximately $100 as a deposit with the LDI and investment securities with a fair value of approximately $2,030 as a deposit with the TDI. Surplus Notes PIH, as the parent company of Maison, is subject to the insurance holding company laws of the State of Louisiana, which, among other things, regulate the terms of surplus notes issued by insurers to their parent company. Maison's capital is comprised of three surplus notes issued to PIH for the total amount of $2,050, all of which were approved by the LDI prior to their issuance. The first note, issued in October 2013 in the principal amount of $650 will mature in October 2017. The second note, in the principal amount of $850 was issued in December 2015 and will mature in December 2017. The third note was issued in March 2016 in the principal amount of $550 and will mature in March 2018. All three notes accrue interest at 10% per annum. Interest payments on the notes are due annually, and are also subject to prior approval by the LDI. Dividend Restrictions As a Louisiana domiciled insurer, the payment of dividends from our insurance subsidiary is restricted by the Louisiana Insurance Code. Dividends can only be paid if an insurer's paid-in capital and surplus exceed the minimum required by the Louisiana Insurance Code by one hundred percent or more, or as otherwise provided. Any dividend or distribution that when aggregated with any other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months exceeds the lesser of (a) ten percent of the insurer's surplus as regards policyholders as of the thirty-first day of December next preceding; or (b) the net income of the insurer, not including realized capital gains, for the twelve month period ending the thirty-first day of December next preceding; is considered to be extra-ordinary and shall not be paid until thirty days after the LDI has received notice of the declaration thereof and has not within that period disapproved the payment, or until the LDI has approved the payment within the thirty-day period. In determining whether a dividend or distribution is extra-ordinary, an insurer may carry forward net income from the previous two calendar years that has not already been paid out in dividends. As of March 31, 2016, Maison had not paid any dividends to its sole shareholder, PIH. 16. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings: From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the Company's current reserves. In addition, the Company's estimate of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities, or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot be reasonably estimated, and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Company's results of operations in future periods. Operating Lease Commitments: As of March 31, 2016, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. 22 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on form 10-Q and in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2015 on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 17, 2016. Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our," refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Cautionary Note about Forward-Looking Statements This section of this quarterly report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions. We use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plan," "project," "continuing," "ongoing," "expect," "believe," "intend," "may," "will," "should," "could," and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements related to future events or future performance, but reflect management's current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events to differ materially from those anticipated, including the matters discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors on the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason. Overview Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, the Company changed its legal name from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. Prior to March 31, 2014, we operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America, Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services, Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, the Company completed an initial public offering of its common stock and then on June 13, 2014, the Company completed a follow-on offering. Through the combination of the Company's IPO and follow-on offering, we issued approximately five million shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2016 KAI and companies affiliated with KAI held approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock, equivalent to 17.6% of our outstanding shares. PIH has three wholly-owned subsidiaries; Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), a Louisiana-domiciled property and casualty insurance company, Maison Managers, Inc. ("MMI"), a managing general agent, incorporated in the State of Delaware on October2, 2012, and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"), a Florida based claims adjusting company. Maison writes personal property and casualty insurance in Louisiana and both personal and commercial property and casualty insurance in Texas. Maison provides dwelling policies for wind and hail only, and dwelling, homeowner and mobile home/manufactured home policies for multi-peril property risks. Maison began writing commercial business in Texas in June 2015, through a quota-share agreement with Brotherhood Mutual Insurance Company ("Brotherhood"). Through this agreement, we have assumed wind/hail only exposures on certain churches and related structures Brotherhood insures throughout the State of Texas. Maison distributes its insurance policies through a network of more than 170 producing independent agents in Louisiana and approximately 40 producing independent agents in Texas. These agents typically represent several insurance companies in order to provide various insurance product lines to their clients. The Company refers to these policies as voluntary policies. In addition to the voluntary policies Maison writes, we have participated in the last three rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1st of each year. As the State of Louisiana has not historically been in the business of serving as an insurer, an insurance "take-out" program was implemented to reduce the number of properties insured by Citizens. Under this take-out program, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by Citizens. 23 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Our in-force policy counts as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: We do not consider the commercial wind/hail only book of business we have written in Texas in our policies-in-force count as of March 31, 2016 since we have assumed this business through our quota share agreement with Brotherhood. As of March 31, 2016, we have assumed wind/hail coverage on 615 active policies in Texas through this agreement. MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts with independent agents for policy sales and services, and contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of both the Louisiana and Texas Departments of Insurance ("LDI" and "TDI", respectively). We process claims made by our policyholders both internally, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ClaimCor, as well as through various third-party claims adjusting companies. MMI has ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agents we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. On January 2, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the membership interest of ClaimCor, a claims and underwriting technical solutions company. Maison processing claims made by our policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. MMI has ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agents we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. The Company operates in in a single segment property and casualty insurance. Non U.S.-GAAP Financial Measures The Company assesses its results of operations using certain non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are defined below. The Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating performance in the same manner as management does. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, any financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company's non-U.S. GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how we define our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. Underwriting Ratios The Company, like many insurance companies, analyzes performance based on underwriting ratios such as loss ratio, expense ratio and combined ratio. The loss ratio is derived by dividing the amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is derived by dividing the sum of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and general and administrative expenses by net premiums earned. All items included in the loss and expense ratios are presented in the Company's U.S. GAAP financial statements. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. A combined ratio below 100% demonstrates underwriting profit whereas a combined ratio over 100% demonstrates an underwriting loss. 24 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Critical Accounting Policies See Note 2 "Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 included in Item 1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the Company's critical accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 included in Item 1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the recent accounting pronouncements and their effect, if any, on the Company. Analysis of Financial Condition As of March 31, 2016 compared to December 31, 2015 Investments The Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at estimated fair value. The Company held an investments portfolio comprised primarily of fixed income securities issued by the U.S. Government, government agencies and high quality corporate issuers. The portfolio is managed by a third-party investment management firm in accordance with the investment policies and guidelines approved by Maison's Board of Directors. These guidelines stress the preservation of capital, market liquidity and the diversification of risk. Investments held by the Company's insurance subsidiary must also comply with applicable domiciliary state regulations that prescribe the type, quality and concentration of investments. The table below summarizes, by type, the Company's investments as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. The Company's limited liability investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $298 through March 31, 2016. The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. Liquidity and Cash Flow Risk The table below summarizes the fair value of the Company's fixed income securities by contractual maturity as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. 25 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company holds cash and high-grade short-term assets which, along with fixed income securities, management believes are sufficient in amount for the payment of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and other operating subsidiary obligations on a timely basis. The Company may not be able to liquidate its investments in the event that additional cash is required to meet obligations to its policyholders, however, the Company believes that the high-quality, liquid investments in its portfolio provide it with sufficient liquidity. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in interest or currency exchange rates and equity prices. Given the Company's operations only invest in U.S. dollar denominated instruments and maintain a relatively insignificant investment in equity instruments, its primary market risk exposures in the investments portfolio are to changes in interest rates. Because the investments portfolio is comprised of primarily fixed maturity instruments that are usually held to maturity, periodic changes in interest rate levels generally impact the Company's financial results to the extent that the investments are recorded at market value and reinvestment yields are different than the original yields on maturing instruments. During periods of rising interest rates, the market values of the existing fixed income securities will generally decrease. The reverse is true during periods of declining interest rates. Credit Risk Credit risk is defined as the risk of financial loss due to failure of the other party to a financial instrument to discharge an obligation. Credit risk arises from the Company's positions in short-term investments, corporate debt instruments and government bonds. At March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company's debt securities had the following quality ratings as assigned by Standard and Poor's ("S&P") or Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"). Other-Than-Temporary Impairment The length of time an individual investment may be held in an unrealized loss position may vary based on the opinion of the investment manager and their respective analyses related to valuation and to the various credit risks that may prevent the Company from recapturing the principal investment. In the case of an individual investment with a maturity date where the investment manager determines that there is little or no risk of default prior to the maturity of a holding, the Company would elect to hold the investment in an unrealized loss position until the price recovers or the investment matures. In situations where facts emerge that might increase the risk associated with recapture of principal, the Company may elect to sell investments at a loss. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of its investment portfolio to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. Further information regarding the Company's detailed analysis and factors considered in establishing an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment is discussed within Note 4 - "Investments," to the consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report. As a result of the analysis performed by the Company, there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments related to investments for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. At March 31, 2016, the gross unrealized losses for fixed income and equity securities amounted to $28, and there were no unrealized losses attributable to non-investment grade fixed income securities. At both March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, all unrealized losses on individual investments were considered temporary. Fixed income securities in unrealized loss positions continued to pay interest and were not subject to material changes in their respective debt ratings. The Company concluded the declines in value were considered temporary. As the Company has the capacity to hold these investments to maturity, no impairment provision was considered necessary. 26 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs The Company's deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") include commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other policy processing fees that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable and represent those costs related to acquiring the premiums the Company has yet to earn (the unearned premium reserve). DPAC decreased $353, to $3,677 at March 31, 2016 from $4,030 at December 31, 2015. Effective January 1, 2016, we amended the terms of our quota-share agreement with Brotherhood such that the premiums we receive, and the commissions we pay, are remitted on an earned basis in contrast to remittance on a written basis, under the terms of the agreement prior to January 1st. While this change does not impact the net income earned as a result of the agreement, it does impact certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated financial statements, such as our unearned premium reserves and DPAC assets. This change to our quota-share agreement with Brotherhood accounted for approximately $220 of the $353 decrease to DPAC from December 31, 2015 to March 31, 2016. Premiums Receivable, Net of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Premiums receivable, net of allowance for credit losses, decreased by $350 to $2,045 as of March 31, 2016 from $2,395 as of December 31, 2015. Due to our participation in the Citizens take-out program on December 1, 2015, we had a balance due from Citizens in the amount of $460 as of December 31, 2015. This balance had been reduced to $145 as of March 31, 2016. Ceded Unearned Premiums Ceded Unearned Premiums represents the unexpired portion of premiums which have been paid to the Company's reinsurers. Ceded Unearned Premiums are charged to income over the terms of the respective reinsurance treaties. Ceded unearned premiums increased $224 to $3,029 as of March 31, 2016 from $2,805 as of December 31, 2015 which is due to the timing of installment payments due under each respective treaty. Reinsurance Recoverable Reinsurance recoverable on both paid losses and loss reserves represents amounts due to the Company, or expected to be due to the Company from its reinsurers, based upon claims paid as well as claims reserves which have exceeded the retention amount under our reinsurance treaties. As of March 31, 2016, we have recorded expected recoveries from our reinsurers of $1,300 on paid losses and $2,028 on loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, resulting primarily from a series of severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes and flooding in the state of Louisiana throughout the first quarter 2016. See "Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves" in Item 2 of this report for further discussion on the Company's claims reserves and expected recoveries. Funds Deposited with Reinsured Companies Funds deposited with reinsured companies represents collateral we have placed on deposit with Brotherhood based upon our quota-share agreement to reinsure a portion of Brotherhood's business for wind/hail coverage only. Pursuant to the agreement, we were required to fund our pro-rata portion of reserves Brotherhood had established for unearned premium, losses and loss adjustments expenses, and any other amounts for which Brotherhood had not been able to take credit for on its annual statutory financial statements filed with the appropriate insurance regulatory authority. As of December 31, 2015, we had funded this obligation via a $725 deposit made to Brotherhood under a trust agreement. Effective January 1, 2016, we modified our agreement with Brotherhood such that this deposit is no longer required. Current Income Taxes Recoverable/Payable Current income taxes recoverable were $1,666 as of March 31, 2016 compared to a current recoverable of $965 as of December 31, 2015 representing the estimate of both the Company's state and federal income taxes to be recovered/due for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, less estimated payments made during each quarter. Net Deferred Income Taxes Net deferred income taxes decreased $64 to $442 as of March 31, 2016 compared to $506 as of December 31, 2015. Net deferred income taxes are comprised of approximately $2,186 and $2,310 of deferred tax assets, net of approximately $1,744 and $1,804 of deferred tax liabilities as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The change in the net deferred tax asset is primarily due to a decrease in the deferred tax assets related to our unearned premium reserves, as well as a decrease in our deferred tax liabilities related to our deferred policy acquisition costs. 27 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Property and Equipment Property and equipment was $263 and $234 as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, and consists of computers, office equipment, and improvements at our leased facilities in Tampa, Florida and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, shown net of accumulated depreciation. Also included in these balances are vehicles we have purchased for the use of our sales representatives in the state of Texas. Our policy for the capitalization and depreciation of these assets can be found in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in Item 1 of this report. Other Assets Other assets decreased $21, to $684 as of March 31, 2016 from $705 as of December 31, 2015. The major components of other assets, and the change therein, are shown below. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred, but not reported ("IBNR") loss events and the related estimated loss adjustment expenses ("LAE"). The table below separates our loss reserves and LAE between IBNR and case specific estimates as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, and also shows the expected reinsurance recoverable on those reserves. (1) Homeowners refers to our multi-peril policies for traditional dwellings as well as mobile and manufactured homes. (2) Special property includes both our Fire and Allied lines of business, which are primarily wind/hail only products, and also includes the commercial wind/hail only business we have assumed through our agreement with Brotherhood. For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, the Company reported $167 of favorable development (redundancy) for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves from prior accident years. This favorable development was primarily related to our aggregate catastrophe reinsurance treaty, which runs from June 1, 2015 through June 1, 2016, and has allowed us to recover multiple weather related claims once our excess of loss reinsurance deductibles were met, which occurred during the first quarter 2016. Gross reserves as of March 31, 2016 were $5,957, an increase of $3,834 from December 31, 2015. A significant portion of this increase relates to reserves established for a catastrophic event which occurred during the last week of February in Louisiana, and accounts for $2,203 of the gross reserve as of March 31, 2016. Our reinsurance recoverable of $2,028 as of March 31, 2016 includes $1,821 related to this catastrophe. See 'Net Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses" in Item 2 of this report for further information on the February 2016 catastrophe event. The Company cannot predict whether loss and loss adjustment expense reserves will develop favorably or unfavorably from the amounts reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Any such development could have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial results for a given period. 28 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Unearned Premium Reserves Unearned premium reserves decreased $1,524 to $21,918 as of March 31, 2016 compared to $23,442 as of December 31, 2015. The following table outlines the change in unearned premium reserves by line of business. December 31, 2015 The decrease in unearned premium related to our special property line of business is primarily due to an amendment to the terms of our quota-share agreement with Brotherhood. Effective January 1, 2016, the agreement was modified such that the premiums we receive are remitted on an earned basis in contrast to remittance on a written basis, which occurred under the terms of the agreement prior to January 1st. While this change does not impact the net income earned as a result of the agreement, it did result in the return of approximately $760 of unearned premium to Brotherhood effective January 1, 2016. Ceded Reinsurance Premiums Payable Ceded reinsurance premiums payable decreased $82 to $3,201 as of March 31, 2016 compared to $3,283 as of December 31, 2015, primarily as a result of the timing of payments due under our reinsurance programs. The bulk of the balance payable as of March 31, 2016 represents a quarterly payment due under our catastrophe reinsurance program, which was paid in April, 2016. Agent Commissions Payable Agent commissions payable increased $140 to $543 as of March 31, 2016 versus $403 as of December 31, 2015. As agent commissions are paid in arrears, this balance represents commissions owed to the Company's independent agents on policies written throughout the months ended March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Premiums Collected in Advance Premium deposits were $1,764 and $870 and represent cash the Company has received for policies which were not yet in-force as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 respectively. Upon the effective date of coverage, advance premiums are reclassified to the unearned premium reserve account. Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities Accrued expenses and other liabilities decreased $298, to $1,565 as of March 31, 2016 from $1,863 as of December 31, 2015. The major components of accrued expenses and other liabilities, as well as the change therein, are shown below. Related Party Transactions As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015. 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares") A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of fifteen dollars per share. The Warrant expires seven years from date of issuance. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds ten dollars per share for any twenty trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. 29 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Preferred Shares have a par value of twenty five dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On February 22, 2016 the Company's board of directors authorized a dividend payment on the Preferred Shares for shareholders of record as of February 23, 2016. Accordingly, on February 24, 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing the first annual dividend payment the Company has made on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to twenty five dollars per share outstanding plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Effect on Financial Condition and Statement of Operations Under the original MSA, we were required to pay Advisors a fee of 1% of written premiums on a monthly basis. The Company replaced this ongoing annuity by providing Advisors with an up-front cash payment and other consideration which lead to a one-time charge of $5,421 to the Company's operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 as follows: The issuance of the Warrants and Performance Shares had no effect on the Company's total shareholders' equity as they both resulted in equal and offsetting charges to the Company's retained earnings and additional paid-in capital. We estimated the fair value of the Warrant on grant date based upon the Black-Scholes option pricing model while we utilized a Monte Carlo model to determine the fair value of the Performance Shares due to the fact that these shares are only issuable based upon the achievement of certain market conditions. Because the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption provision requiring redemption on February 24, 2020, we were required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on our balance sheet instead of recording the value of these shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the ultimate redemption amount of the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to operations through February 24, 2020 using the effective interest method. For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, amortization of the discount on the Preferred Shares totaled $88. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2016, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. 30 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Shareholders' Equity The primary drivers behind the changes to total shareholders' equity for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were the purchase (and retirement) of treasury shares pursuant to the Company's share buyback program, as well as the net loss and net unrealized gains on our investment portfolio for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as shown below. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Gross Premiums Written Gross premiums written increased $2,783 or 35%, to $10,804 for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to $8,021 for the same period in 2015. The following table shows our direct premiums written by line of business. The increase in gross written premiums can be attributed to the organic growth in voluntary production from our independent agents as well as the addition of assumed business in Texas through our agreement with Brotherhood. Our independent agents wrote approximately $7,560 of premium for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to approximately $5,726 for the same period in 2015. Special property premium written for the three months ended March 31, 2016 also includes the benefit of approximately $400 in premium assumed through our agreement with Brotherhood. There were no assumed premiums under this arrangement for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as we entered into the Brotherhood agreement in June 2015. Ceded Premiums Written Ceded premiums written increased to $3,571 for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to $2,738 for the first quarter 2015. This increase was primarily due to an increase in limits purchased under our catastrophe reinsurance program. Effective June 1, 2015 we entered into a new catastrophe reinsurance program through May 31, 2016. Under the program, for each event occurring within a 144-hour period, we receive reinsurance recoveries of up to $121,000 in excess of $4,000 per event. We have also procured another layer of reinsurance protection that may be used for any event above $121,000, up to a maximum recovery of $15,000. This $15,000 second layer of coverage applies in total for all events occurring during the treaty year. The aggregate loss we would retain for two or more catastrophes occurring during the treaty year under our new program is $5,000. The total cost of our catastrophe coverage is estimated to be approximately $13,000 for the treaty year. 31 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Net Premium Earned The following table shows our net premiums earned by line of business. The increase in net premiums earned is due primarily to the increase in gross written premiums less premiums ceded as previously discussed. Premium earned on a gross and ceded basis is as shown in the following table. Other Income Other income decreased $41, to $263 for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to $304 for the same period in 2015. The decrease is primarily due to a reduction in claims adjusting fee revenue earned by our subsidiary, ClaimCor. Net losses and loss adjustment expenses Net losses and LAE represent both actual payments made and changes in estimated future payments to be made to our policyholders. The following table sets forth the components of our losses and loss ratios for the periods presented. (1) We define Core Loss as net losses and LAE less the sum of Catastrophe losses and prior period redundancy. (2) Property Claims Services (PCS) defines a catastrophic event as an event where the insurance industry is estimated to incur over $25 million of insured property damage that also impacts a significant number of insureds. For purposes of the above table, we have defined a Catastrophe as a PCS event where our estimated cost exceeds $1,500. (3) Prior Period Development is the amount of ultimate actual loss settlement value which is more than the estimated reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss, while redundancy represents the ultimate actual loss settlement value which is less than the estimated and determined reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss. Our net loss ratio (net losses and LAE divided by net premiums earned) for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was 80.8% compared to 10.4% for the same period in the prior year. While we experienced what we consider a lower than average amount of incurred losses in the first quarter 2015 (in both frequency and severity), the first quarter 2016 was marked by severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes throughout Louisiana on February 23, 2016. As our total incurred losses from this event exceeded $1,500, we have defined this event as a catastrophe loss in the table above. Our catastrophe reinsurance program is structured so that our retention is set at $4,000 for a single event such as these storms, and through March 31, 2016, we have incurred approximately $5,800 as a result of the February 23rd event, before expected reinsurance recoveries. After anticipated recoveries under both our catastrophe and per-risk reinsurance treaties, our net incurred losses from this event were $3,979 through March 31, 2016, accounting for over half of the current quarter's loss ratio. Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs for the first quarter 2016 was $1,990 compared to $1,526 for the first quarter of 2015, and includes items such as commissions earned by our agents, premium taxes, assessments, and policy processing fees. Amortization charges correlate with earned premiums quarter over quarter shown by calculating deferred policy acquisition cost amortization as a percentage of earned premiums, which was 24.2% for the first quarter 2015, compared to 25.4% for 2014. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $1,578 for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, compared to $1,805 the quarter ended March 31, 2015. General and administrative expenses expressed as a percentage of net premium earned have decreased to 19.2% for 2016 compared to 30.0% for 2015. In the first quarter 2015, we incurred approximately $100 in professional fees associated with the acquisition of ClaimCor, for which there was no comparable expense in the first quarter 2016. 32 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Loss on Termination of Management Services Agreement Upon the termination of the MSA with 1347 Advisors, we recorded a loss of $5,421 for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, representing the estimated fair value of the cash, warrants, preferred shares and performance shares paid to Advisors. For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, we also recorded a charge in the amount of $88 associated with the amortization of the discount recorded on the preferred shares issued in the transaction. See "Related Party Transactions" in the Analysis of Financial Condition above for further information on the termination of the MSA. Income Tax (Benefit) Expense Income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $578 compared to a benefit of $957 for the same period 2015. The effective rate for income taxes was 34.1% for the first quarter of 2016 compared to 32.1% for the first quarter of 2015. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the foregoing, the Company's net loss for the first quarter 2016 was $1,115 compared with a net loss of $2,024 for the first quarter of 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources The purpose of liquidity management is to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet all financial commitments and obligations as they fall due. The liquidity requirements for the Company and its subsidiaries have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, and from the proceeds from the sales of our common and preferred stock. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for loss and LAE payments as well as other operating expenses. The timing and amount of payments for net losses and loss adjustment expenses may differ materially from the Company's provisions for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which may create increased liquidity requirements. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the Company's consolidated cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Three months ended March 31, 2016 For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, the net cash used by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $773, driven, in large by our payment of approximately $4,700 in loss and loss adjustment expenses in the quarter, after reinsurance recoveries. The net cash used by investing activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $2,184, resulting from the net purchases of fixed income and equity securities for investment portfolio. Net cash used by financing activities was $426, which results from a dividend payment of $240 to Advisors as holders of the Preferred Shares issued in the MSA termination transaction, as well as the payment of $186 for the repurchase of 26,149 shares of our common stock pursuant to our share buyback program. As a result of the foregoing, our net decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the first quarter 2015 was $3,383. Three months ended March 31, 2015 For the quarter ended March 31, 2015, the net cash provided by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $1,001. The source of cash was primarily from the collection of $9,148 in written policyholder premiums in the quarter. This amount was reduced by the payment of ceded reinsurance premiums of $2,605, the payment of losses and loss adjustment expenses (net of subrogation recoveries) of $548, the one-time cash payment of $2,000 to Advisors pursuant to the termination of the MSA, commissions paid to our agents equaling $908, wages and salaries paid to our employees equaling $486, payments to various local and federal regulators for premium and income taxes and assessments in the amount of $441, and other net operating payments of $1,159. 33 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The net cash used by investing activities as reported on our consolidated statements of cash flows was $906, primarily due to our acquisition of ClaimCor and purchase of fixed income securities for our investments portfolio. As a result of the foregoing, our net increase in cash and cash equivalents for the first quarter 2015 was $95. Regulatory Capital In the United States, a risk-based capital ("RBC") formula is used by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") to identify property and casualty insurance companies that may not be adequately capitalized. Most states, including Louisiana, the domiciliary state of our insurance subsidiary, Maison, as well as Texas, where Maison began writing business in June 2015, have adopted the NAIC RBC requirements. In general, insurers reporting surplus with respect to policyholders below 200% of the authorized control level, as defined by the NAIC, on December 31st of the previous year are subject to varying levels of regulatory action, which may include discontinuation of operations. As of March 31, 2016, Maison's reported surplus was considered to be in the "no action" level by the Louisiana Department of Insurance. Furthermore, pursuant to the consent order approving Maison's admission into the State of Texas, Maison has agreed to: Establish a deposit of $2,000 for the benefit of Texas policyholders. The Company has fulfilled this obligation by depositing fixed income securities, having an estimated fair value of $2,030 as of March 31, 2016, with the State of Texas. Maintain a Risk-Based-Capital ("RBC") ratio of 300% or more, and provide calculation of such ratio to the TDI on a periodic basis. Notify the TDI prior to any significant changes in our reinsurance programs.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 3 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 4 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 5 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 6 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Nature of Business Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, the Company changed its legal name from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. PIH holds all of the capital stock of three subsidiaries: Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), Maison Managers Inc. ("MMI"), and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"). Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Prior to March 31, 2014, PIH was a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, PIH completed an initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock. On June 13, 2014, PIH completed a follow-on offering of its common stock to the public. Through the combination of the Company's IPO and follow-on offering, PIH issued approximately five million shares of its common stock. As of June 30, 2016 KAI held approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock, which is equivalent to 17.7% of our outstanding shares. Maison began providing homeowners insurance, manufactured home insurance and dwelling fire insurance to individuals in Louisiana in December 2012. Maison writes both full peril property policies as well as wind/hail only exposures in Louisiana and distributes its policies through a network of independent insurance agents. On May 13, 2015 the Company was notified by the Texas Department of Insurance that a Certificate of Authority had been granted to Maison, allowing us to begin writing insurance in the State of Texas. Maison began assuming wind/hail only insurance for commercial properties in Texas beginning in June 2015. In September 2015, Maison began writing manufactured home policies in the State of Texas on a direct basis. In addition to the voluntary policies Maison writes, we have participated in the last four rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1 st of each year. As the State of Louisiana has not historically been in the business of serving as an insurer, an insurance "take-out" program was implemented to reduce the number of properties insured by Citizens. Under this program, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by Citizens. MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary, known as a managing general agency and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting, and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts primarily with independent agents for policy sales and services, and also contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of both the Louisiana Department of Insurance ("LDI") and Texas Department of Insurance ("TDI"). On January 2, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the membership interest of ClaimCor, a claims and underwriting technical solutions company. Maison processes claims made by our policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. MMI has ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agents we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. 2. Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation: These statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Principles of Consolidation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. 7 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements: The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Changes in estimates are recorded in the accounting period in which the change is determined. The critical accounting estimates and assumptions in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, the valuation of fixed income and equity securities, the valuation of net deferred income taxes, the valuation of various securities we have issued in conjunction with the termination of the management services agreement with 1347 Advisors, LLC, the valuation of deferred policy acquisition costs and goodwill, and stock-based compensation expense. Investments: Investments in fixed income securities and equity investments in common stock are classified as available-for-sale and reported at estimated fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, until sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized, at which point the cumulative unrealized gains or losses are transferred to the consolidated statement of operations. Limited liability investments include investments in limited liability companies in which the Company's interests are deemed minor and therefor, are accounted for under the cost method of accounting which approximates their fair value. Short-term investments, which consist of investments with original maturities between three months and one year, are reported at cost, which approximates fair value due to their short-term nature. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are determined on a first-in, first-out basis, and are included in net investment income. Interest income is included in net investment income and is recorded as it accrues. The Company accounts for its investments using trade date accounting. The Company conducts a quarterly review to identify and evaluate investments that show objective indications of possible impairment. Impairment is charged to the statement of operations if the fair value of the instrument falls below its amortized cost and the decline is considered other-than-temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company's ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents include cash and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. Premiums Receivable: Premiums receivable include premium balances due and uncollected and installment premiums not yet due from agents and insureds. Premiums receivable are reported net of an estimated allowance for credit losses. Reinsurance: Reinsurance premiums, losses, and loss adjustment expenses are accounted for on a basis consistent with those used in accounting for the original policies issued and the terms of the reinsurance contracts. Premiums and losses ceded to other companies have been reported as a reduction of premium revenue and incurred net losses and loss adjustment expenses. A reinsurance recoverable is recorded for that portion of paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses that are ceded to other companies. 8 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs: The Company defers commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other underwriting and agency expenses that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable. Costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which premiums are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred, as opposed to being deferred and amortized as the premium is earned. The method followed in determining the deferred policy acquisition costs limits the deferral to its realizable value by giving consideration to estimated future loss and loss adjustment expenses to be incurred as revenues are earned. Anticipated investment income is included in determining the realizable value of the deferred policy acquisition costs. Changes in estimates, if any, are recorded in the accounting period in which they are determined. Income Taxes: The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes, whereby deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for (i) the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and (ii) loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the date of enactment. Future tax benefits are recognized to the extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not and a valuation allowance is established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Current federal income taxes are charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is reported at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over estimated useful life which range from seven years for furniture, five years for vehicles, three years for computer equipment, and the shorter of estimated useful life or the term of the lease for leasehold improvements. Property and equipment is estimated to have no salvage value at its useful life-end. Rent expense for the Company's office leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Rent expense was $173 and $96 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Intangible Assets: Intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet represents a non-compete agreement associated with our acquisition of ClaimCor in January 2015. The Company amortizes identified intangible assets to expense over their estimated lives using the straight-line method. The Company evaluates intangible assets for impairment as events and circumstances change or at minimum, on an annual basis. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves: Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred but not yet reported loss events and the related estimated loss adjustment expenses. The Company performs a continuing review of its loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including its reserving techniques as well as the impact of reinsurance on our loss reserves. The loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are also reviewed at minimum, on an annual basis by qualified third party actuaries. Since the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on estimates, the ultimate liability may be more or less than such reserves. The effects of changes in such estimated reserves are included in the results of income in the period in which the estimates are changed. Such changes in estimates could occur in a future period and may be material to the Company's results of operations and financial position in such period. Concentration of Credit Risk: Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk include investments, cash, premiums receivable, and amounts due from reinsurers on losses incurred. The Company maintains its cash with three major U.S. domestic banking institutions. Such amounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") up to $250 per institution. At June 30, 2016 the Company held funds in excess of these FDIC insured amounts. The terms of these deposits are on demand to mitigate some of the associated risk. The Company has not incurred losses related to these deposits. 9 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company has not experienced significant losses related to premiums receivable from its policyholders and management believes that amounts provided as an allowance for credit losses is adequate. The Company has not experienced any losses on amounts due from reinsurers. In order to limit the credit risk associated with amounts potentially due from reinsurers, the Company uses several different reinsurers, all of which have an A.M. Best Rating of A- (Excellent) or better. Absent such rating, the Company has required its reinsurers to place collateral on deposit with an independent institution under a trust agreement for the Company's benefit. The Company also has risk associated with the lack of geographic diversification due to the fact that Maison exclusively underwrites policies in Louisiana and Texas. The Company insures personal property located in 62 of the 64 parishes in the State of Louisiana. As of June 30, 2016, these policies are concentrated within these parishes, presented as a percentage of our total policies in force in all states, as follows: Saint Tammany Parish 15.9%, Jefferson Parish 15.8%, East Baton Rouge Parish 7.8%, Orleans Parish 6.1%, Terrebonne Parish 5.5%, Livingston Parish 5.5%, and Tangipahoa Parish 5.4%. No other parish individually has over 5.0% of the policies in force as of June 30, 2016. The remaining parishes combine to equal 34.2% of the total policies in force as of June 30, 2016. On a direct basis, Maison writes in 78 of the 254 counties that comprise the State of Texas, however no single county represents over 5.0% of our policies in force as of June 30, 2016. Revenue Recognition: Premium revenue is recognized on a pro rata basis over the term of the respective policy contract. Unearned premium reserves represent the portion of premium written that is applicable to the unexpired term of policies in force. Service charges on installment premiums are recognized as income upon receipt of related installment payments and are reflected in other income. Revenue from other policy fees is deferred and recognized over the terms of the respective policy period, with revenue reflected in other income. Any customer payment received is applied first to any service charge or policy fee due, with the remaining amount applied toward any premium due. Ceded premiums are charged to income over the applicable term of the various reinsurance contracts with third party reinsurers. Ceded unearned premiums represent the unexpired portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers and are reported as an asset on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Premiums collected in advance occur when the policyholder premium is paid in advance of the effective commencement period of the policy and are recorded as a liability on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Stock-Based Compensation: The Company has accounted for stock-based compensation under the provisions of ASC Topic 718 Stock Compensation which requires the use of the fair-value based method to determine compensation for all arrangements under which employees and others receive shares of stock or equity instruments (stock options and common stock purchase warrants). The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model using assumptions for expected volatility, expected dividends, expected term, and the risk-free interest rate. The fair value of each stock option award is recorded as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the period in which the stock options vest, with a corresponding increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company has also issued restricted stock units ("RSUs") to certain of its employees which have been accounted for as equity based awards since, upon vesting, they are required to be settled in the Company's common shares. The Company used a Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate the fair value of these awards upon grant date as the vesting of these RSUs occurs based solely upon market-based conditions. The fair value of each RSU is recorded as compensation expense over the derived service period, as determined by the valuation model. Should the market-based condition be achieved prior to the expiration of the derived service period, any unrecognized cost will be recorded as compensation expense in the period in which the RSUs actually vest. 10 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The carrying values of certain financial instruments, including cash, short-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value due to their short-term nature. The Company measures the fair value of financial instruments in accordance with GAAP which defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset (or liability) in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. GAAP also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Earnings (loss) Per Common Share: Basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the respective period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive outstanding stock options, warrants or other convertible financial instruments. Potential common shares outstanding are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings (loss) per share if their effect is anti-dilutive. Operating Segments: The Company operates in a single segment property and casualty insurance. 3. Recently Issued Accounting Standards ASU 2015-09: Financial Services Insurance: In May 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2015-09: Financial Services Insurance (Topic 944): Disclosures about Short-Duration Contracts. This update provides for an increase in the transparency of accounting estimates made by companies in the measurement of short-duration contracts and unpaid claim and claim adjustment expense liabilities by requiring additional disclosures, as well as improvements to existing disclosures. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, applied retrospectively, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. Most significantly, ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of an investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income (loss). ASU 2016-01 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017 and will be applied using a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Adoption of ASU 2016-01 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position, cash flows, or total comprehensive income, but could impact the Company's results of operations and earnings (loss) per share as changes in fair value will be presented in net income (loss) rather than other comprehensive income (loss). ASU 2016-02: Leases: In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02: Leases . ASU 2016-02 was issued to improve the financial reporting of leasing transactions. Under current guidance for lessees, leases are only included on the balance sheet if certain criteria, classifying the agreement as a capital lease, are met. This update will require the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability, discounted to present value, for all leases that extend beyond 12 months. For operating leases, the asset and liability will be expensed over the lease term on a straight-line basis, with all cash flows included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. For finance leases, interest on the lease liability will be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income and the repayment of the principal portion of the lease liability will be classified as a financing activity while the interest component will be included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, leases will be recognized and measured at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. 11 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) ASU 2016-09: Stock Compensation: In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09: Compensation Stock Compensation: Improvement to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . ASU 2016-09 was issued to simplify the accounting for share-based payment awards. The guidance requires that all tax effects related to share-based payment be made through the statement of operations at the time of settlement as opposed to the current guidance that requires excess tax benefits to be recognized in additional paid-in-capital. ASU 2016-09 also removes the requirement to delay recognition of a tax benefit until it reduces current taxes payable. The change is required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative effect adjustment to opening accumulated deficit. Additionally, all tax related cash flows resulting from share-based payments are to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows, a departure from the current requirement which presents tax benefits as an inflow from financing activities and an outflow from operating activities. ASU 2016-09 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company does not believe the adoption of ASU 2016-09 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments Credit Losses: In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13 was issued to provide financial statement users with more useful information regarding the expected credit losses on financial instruments held as assets. Under current GAAP, financial statement recognition for credit losses on financial instruments was generally delayed until the loss was probable of occurring. The amendments of ASU 2016-13 eliminate this probable initial recognition threshold and instead reflect an entity's current estimate of all expected credit losses. The amendments also broaden the information that an entity must consider in developing its expected credit loss estimates for those assets measured at amortized cost by using forecasted information instead of the current methodology which only considered past events and current conditions. Under ASU 2016-13, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities will be measured in a manner similar to current GAAP, however, the amendments require that credit losses be presented as an allowance against the investment, rather than as a write-down. The amendments also allow the entity to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income, which is prohibited under current GAAP. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. 4. Investments A summary of the amortized cost, estimated fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses on the Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities at June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 is as follows. 12 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The table below summarizes the Company's fixed income securities at June 30, 2016 by contractual maturity periods. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. The following table highlights, by loss position and security type, those fixed income and equity securities in unrealized loss positions as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. The tables segregate the holdings based on the period of time the investments have been continuously held in unrealized loss positions. There were 19 and 107 fixed income investments that were in unrealized loss positions as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The Company held no equity securities in unrealized loss positions at either date. Under the terms of the certificate of authority granted to Maison by the Texas Department of Insurance, Maison is required to pledge securities totaling approximately $2,000 with the State of Texas. Maison deposited the required securities with the State of Texas on May 13, 2015. These securities consist of various fixed income securities listed in the preceding tables which have an amortized cost basis of $2,002 and estimated fair value of $2,033 as of June 30, 2016. The Company's other investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $387 through June 30, 2016. One of these limited partnerships is managed by Argo Management Group, LLC, an entity which, as of April 21, 2016 is wholly owned by KFSI. The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. 13 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Other-than-Temporary Impairment: The establishment of an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment requires a number of judgments and estimates. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of the individual investments to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. The analysis includes some or all of the following procedures as deemed appropriate by the Company: considering the extent, and length of time during which the market value has been below cost; identifying any circumstances which management believes may impact the recoverability of the unrealized loss positions; obtaining a valuation analysis from a third-party investment manager regarding the intrinsic value of these investments based upon their knowledge and experience combined with market-based valuation techniques; reviewing the historical trading volatility and trading range of the investment and certain other similar investments; assessing if declines in market value are other-than-temporary for debt instruments based upon the investment grade credit ratings from third-party credit rating agencies; assessing the timeliness and completeness of principal and interest payment due from the investee; and assessing the Company's ability and intent to hold these investments until the impairment may be recovered. The risks and uncertainties inherent in the assessment methodology used to determine declines in market value that are other-than-temporary include, but may not be limited to, the following: the opinions of professional investment managers could be incorrect; the past trading patterns of investments may not reflect their future valuation trends; the credit ratings assigned by credit rating agencies may be incorrect due to unforeseen events or unknown facts related to the investee company's financial situation; and the historical debt service record of an investment may not be indicative of future performance and may not reflect a company's unknown underlying financial problems. The Company has reviewed currently available information regarding the investments it holds which have estimated fair values that are less than their carrying amounts and believes that these unrealized losses are primarily due to temporary market and sector-related factors rather than to issuer-specific factors. The Company does not intend to sell these investments in the short term, and it is not likely that it will be required to sell these investments before the recovery of their amortized cost. Accordingly, all of the Company's investments were in good standing and there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments on the Company's investments for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. The Company does not have any exposure to subprime mortgage-backed investments. Net investment income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows: 5. Reinsurance The Company reinsures, or cedes, a portion of its written premiums on a per risk and excess of loss basis to non-affiliated insurers in order to limit its loss exposure. Although reinsurance is intended to reduce the Company's exposure risk, the ceding of insurance does not legally discharge the Company from its primary liability for the full amount of coverage under its policies. If the reinsurer fails to meet its obligations under the applicable reinsurance agreement, the Company would still be required to pay the insured for the loss. 14 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Under the Company's per-risk treaties, reinsurance recoveries are received for up to $1,750 in excess of a retention of $250 for each risk. The Company ceded $222 and $135 in written premiums under its per-risk treaties for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company's excess of loss treaties are based upon a treaty year beginning on June 1 st of each year and expiring on May 31 st of the following year. Thus, the financial statements for the six month periods ending June 30, 2016 and 2015 contain premiums ceded under three separate excess of loss treaties. Under the Company's 2015/2016 excess of loss treaty which expired on May 31, 2016, for each catastrophic event occurring within a 144-hour period, the Company receives reinsurance recoveries of up to $121,000 in excess of a retention of $4,000 per event. The Company had also procured another layer of reinsurance protection that may be used for any event above $125,000, up to a maximum recovery of $15,000. This $15,000 second layer of coverage applied in total to all events occurring during the treaty year of June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016. The aggregate loss the Company would retain for two catastrophes occurring during the treaty year was $5,000. On June 1, 2016 the Company entered into a new excess of loss treaty whereby for each catastrophic event occurring within a 144-hour period, the Company receives reinsurance recoveries of up to $170,000 in excess of a $5,000 retention per event. For any event above $175,000, the Company purchased aggregate coverage, with an additional limit of $25,000. The $25,000 aggregate coverage applies in total to all events occurring during the June 1, 2016 to May 31, 2017 treaty year. The aggregate loss the Company would retain for two catastrophes occurring during the treaty year is $7,000. The Company ceded $9,219 and $6,155 in written premiums under its excess of loss treaties for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In June 2015, we began writing business through a quota-share agreement with Brotherhood Mutual Insurance Company ("Brotherhood"). Through this agreement, we act as a reinsurer, and have assumed wind/hail only exposures on certain churches and related structures Brotherhood insures throughout the State of Texas. Our quota-share percentage varies from 50%-100% of wind/hail premium written by Brotherhood, dependent upon the geographic location (coastal areas versus non-coastal areas) within the State of Texas. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, we have written $858 in assumed premiums and have approximately 620 in-force policies under this agreement as of June 30, 2016. The impact of reinsurance treaties on the Company's financial statements is as follows: 6. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other policy processing fees incurred which are related to successful efforts to acquire new or renewal insurance contracts. Acquisition costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which the related revenues are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred. 15 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) DPAC as well as the related amortization expense associated with DPAC for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, is as follows: 7. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves The Company continually revises its estimates of the ultimate financial impact of claims made. A significant degree of judgment is required to determine amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements for the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The process for establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in predicting future results of both known and unknown loss events. The process of establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relies on the judgment and opinions of a large number of individuals, including the opinions of the Company's independent actuaries. The Company's evaluation of the adequacy of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves includes a re-estimation of the liability for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relating to each preceding financial year compared to the liability that was previously established. The results of this comparison and the changes in the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, net of amounts recoverable from reinsurers, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 16 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 8. Income Taxes Income tax expense (benefit) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 varies from the amount that would result by applying the applicable statutory federal income tax rate of 34% to income before income taxes as summarized in the following table: The Company carries a net deferred income tax asset of $203 and $506 at June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, all of which the Company believes is more likely than not to be fully realized based upon management's assessment of future taxable income. Significant components of the Company's net deferred tax assets are as follows: As of June 30, 2016, the Company had no unrecognized tax benefits. The Company analyzed its tax positions in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes, and has determined that there are currently no uncertain tax positions. The Company generally recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). 9. Net Earnings (Loss) Per Share Net earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding during the periods presented. In calculating diluted earnings per share, those potential common shares that are found to be anti-dilutive are excluded from the calculation. The table below provides a summary of the numerators and denominators used in determining basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. The following potentially dilutive securities outstanding at June 30, 2016 and 2015 have been excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as their effect would be anti-dilutive. 17 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 10. Options, Warrants, and Restricted Stock Units The Company has established an equity incentive plan for employees and directors of the Company (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to create incentives designed to motivate recipients to contribute toward the Company's growth and success, and also to attract and retain persons of outstanding competence, and provide such persons with an opportunity to acquire an equity interest in the Company. In April 2015, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Plan to allow for the issuance of additional award types under the Plan. In addition to non-qualified stock options issuable under the Plan, the amendment provides for the issuance of restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance shares, performance cash awards, and other stock-based awards. The Plan provides for the issuance of 354,912 shares of common stock. As of June 30, 2016, both stock options and RSUs have been issued to the Company's employees under the Plan resulting in 156,956 shares available for future issuance under the Plan. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's stock options for the six months ended June 30, 2016. On June 14, 2016, the Company amended the option agreement between the Company and its President and CEO, Mr. Raucy, that was originally entered into on February 28, 2014, to extend the expiration date from June 30, 2016 to December 31, 2016, provided that Mr. Raucy is employed by the Company on the date of exercise. The following table summarizes the Company's stock options outstanding as of June 30, 2016. On May 29, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors granted RSUs to certain of its executive officers under the Plan. Each RSU granted entitles the grantee to one share of the Company's common stock upon the vesting date of the RSU. The RSUs vest as follows: (i) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share and; (ii) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share. Prior to the vesting of the RSUs, the grantee will not be entitled to any dividends declared on the Company's common stock. The RSUs do not expire, however, should the grantee discontinue employment with the Company for any reason other than death or disability, all unvested RSUs will be deemed forfeited on the date employment is discontinued. The following table summarizes RSU activity for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Due to the fact that the Company's RSUs vest based upon market conditions, the Company used a Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate their fair value as of the date of grant. Based on the model, the estimated fair value on grant date was determined to be $28, which the Company will recognize as compensation expense over a derived service period of approximately two years. 18 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Total stock based compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $20 and $21, respectively. As of June 30, 2016, total unrecognized stock compensation expense of $48 remained, which will be recognized through March 31, 2018. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's common stock warrants for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The following table summarizes the Company's warrants outstanding as of June 30, 2016. 11. Shareholders' Equity Treasury Shares On December 1, 2014, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to 500,000 shares of the Company's common stock. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company repurchased 49,119 and 75,268 shares, respectively. Through June 30, 2016, the Company has repurchased an aggregate 299,119 shares at an aggregate purchase price of $2,252, or $7.53 per share, including all fees and commissions. On January 29, 2016, the Company retired 250,000 of its treasury shares, resulting in a reclassification of the purchase price of $1,917 to additional paid in capital. We anticipate repurchases to continue to be made periodically at our discretion through the period ending December 31, 2016 as the Company's Board of Directors has approved an aggregate repurchase of up to 500,000 shares. Our decisions around the timing, volume, and nature of the share repurchases will be dependent upon market conditions, applicable securities laws, as well as other factors. 12. Related Party Transactions Related party transactions are carried out in the normal course of operations and are measured in part by the amount of consideration paid or received as established and agreed by the parties. Management believes that consideration paid for such services in each case approximates fair value. Except where disclosed elsewhere in these consolidated financial statements, the following is a summary of related party transactions. Performance Share Grant Agreement On March 26, 2014, the Company entered into a Performance Share Grant Agreement ("PSGA") with Kingsway America, Inc. ("KAI", a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI), whereby KAI will be entitled to receive up to an aggregate of 375,000 shares of PIH common stock upon achievement of certain milestones regarding the Company's stock price. Pursuant to the terms of the PSGA, if at any time the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds: (i) $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock; (ii) $15.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 125,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clause (i) herein); and (iii) $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 250,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) herein). The shares of common stock granted to KAI will have a valuation equal to the last sales price of PIH common stock on the day prior to such grant. As of June 30, 2016, the Company had not issued any shares under the PSGA. 19 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Termination of Management Services Agreement As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015. 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares") A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of fifteen dollars per share. The Warrant expires seven years from date of issuance. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds ten dollars per share for any twenty trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of twenty five dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On February 22, 2016 the Company's board of directors authorized a dividend payment on the Preferred Shares for shareholders of record as of February 23, 2016. Accordingly, on February 24, 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing the first annual dividend payment the Company has made on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to twenty five dollars per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Accounting Treatment of the Buyout Transaction As a result of the termination of the MSA agreement, the Company recognized total expenses in the amount of $5,421 for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 as follows: The Company applied the guidance outlined in ASC 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity in recording the issuance of the Series B Preferred Shares. Due to the fact that the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption date of February 24, 2020, the guidance required that we classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet, as opposed to recording the value of the shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the $4,200 redemption amount including all dividends expected to be paid on the Preferred Shares while outstanding, discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, total amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to interest expense through February 24, 2020 using the effective interest method. 20 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company applied the guidance outlined in ASC 505-50 Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees in recording the issuance of the Warrants and Performance Shares by recognizing an increase to equity for the estimated fair value for both instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2015. We estimated the fair value of the Warrants on grant date based upon the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of the Warrants were as follows: We utilized a Monte Carlo simulation model to determine the estimated fair value of the Performance Shares due to the fact that shares are only issuable based upon the achievement of certain market conditions. This pricing model uses multiple simulations to evaluate the probability of achieving the market conditions, as well as a number of other inputs (some of which are Level 3 inputs as defined by the FASB) with respect to the expected volatility and dividend yield (among other inputs) of the Company's common shares. Based upon these models, the estimated fair value of both the Warrants and Performance Shares was determined to be $1,010 on the date of grant . Investment in Limited Liability Company On April 21, 2016, KFSI completed the acquisition of Argo Management Group LLC ("Argo"). Argo's primary business is to act as the Managing Member of Argo Holdings Fund I, LLC, an investment fund in which the Company has committed to invest $500, of which the Company has invested $100 as of June 30, 2016. The managing member of Argo, Mr. John T. Fitzgerald, was also appointed to KFSI's board of directors on April 21, 2016. 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The table below details the change in the balance of each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. 14. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is best evidenced by quoted bid or ask price, as appropriate, in an active market. Where bid or ask prices are not available, such as in an illiquid or inactive market, the closing price of the most recent transaction of that instrument subject to appropriate adjustments as required is used. Where quoted market prices are not available, the quoted prices of similar financial instruments or valuation models with observable market based inputs are used to estimate the fair value. These valuation models may use multiple observable market inputs, including observable interest rates, foreign exchange rates, index levels, credit spreads, equity prices, counterparty credit quality, corresponding market volatility levels and option volatilities. Minimal management judgment is required for fair values calculated using quoted market prices or observable market inputs for models. Greater subjectivity is required when making valuation adjustments for financial instruments in inactive markets or when using models where observable parameters do not exist. Also, the calculation of estimated fair value is based on market conditions at a specific point in time and may not be reflective of future fair values. For the Company's financial instruments carried at cost or amortized cost, the book value is not adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in fair value due to market fluctuations, including those due to interest rate changes, as it is the Company's intention to hold them until there is a recovery of fair value, which may be to maturity. 21 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company classifies its investments in fixed income and equity securities as available-for-sale and reports these investments at fair value. Fair values of fixed income securities for which no active market exists are derived from quoted market prices of similar instruments or other third-party evidence. The FASB has issued guidance that defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for and asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal, or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants. This guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires and entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The guidance categorizes assets and liabilities at fair value into one of three different levels depending on the observation of the inputs employed in the measurements, as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets providing the most reliable measurement of fair value since it is directly observable. Level 2 inputs to the valuation methodology which include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets. These inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly for substantially the full-term of the financial instrument. Level 3 inputs to the valuation methodology which are unobservable and significant to the measurement of fair value. Financial instruments measured at fair value as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 in accordance with this guidance are as follows. 15. Statutory Requirements The Company's insurance subsidiary, Maison prepares statutory basis financial statements in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the LDI. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include state laws, rules and regulations as well as accounting practices and rules as outlined in a variety of publications of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices that are not prescribed, but instead have been specifically requested by an insurer and allowed by the state in which the insurer is domiciled (in Maison's case, Louisiana). Permitted practices may differ from state to state, company to company within a state, and may change in the future. In converting from statutory accounting basis to U.S. GAAP, typical adjustments include the deferral of acquisition costs (which are all charged to operations as incurred on a statutory basis), the inclusion of statutorily non-admitted assets on the balance sheet, the inclusion of net unrealized holding gains or losses related to investments included on the balance sheet, as well as the inclusion of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the statement of operations. 22 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Statutory Surplus and Capital Requirements In order to retain its certificate of authority in the State of Louisiana, Maison is required to maintain a minimum capital surplus of $5,000. As of June 30, 2016 Maison's capital surplus was $16,943. The LDI employs risk-based capital ("RBC") reports to monitor Maison's financial condition. Risk-based capital is determined in accordance with a formula adopted by the NAIC which takes into consideration the covariance between asset risk, credit risk, underwriting risk, and other business risks. The RBC report determines whether Maison falls into the "no action" level or one of the four action levels set forth in the Louisiana Insurance Code. Furthermore, in order to retain its certificate of authority in the State of Texas, Maison is required to maintain an RBC ratio of 300% or more. As of June 30, 2016, Maison's RBC ratio was above 300%. States routinely require deposits of assets for the protection of policyholders. As of June 30, 2016, Maison held investment securities with a fair value of approximately $100 as a deposit with the LDI and investment securities with a fair value of approximately $2,033 as a deposit with the TDI. Surplus Notes PIH, as the parent company of Maison, is subject to the insurance holding company laws of the State of Louisiana, which, among other things, regulate the terms of surplus notes issued by insurers to their parent company. Maison's capital is comprised of three surplus notes issued to PIH for the total amount of $2,050, all of which were approved by the LDI prior to their issuance. The first note, issued in October 2013 in the principal amount of $650 will mature in October 2017. The second note, in the principal amount of $850 was issued in December 2015 and will mature in December 2017. The third note was issued in March 2016 in the principal amount of $550 and will mature in March 2018. All three notes accrue interest at 10% per annum. Interest payments on the notes are due annually, and are also subject to prior approval by the LDI. Dividend Restrictions As a Louisiana domiciled insurer, the payment of dividends from our insurance subsidiary is restricted by the Louisiana Insurance Code. Dividends can only be paid if an insurer's paid-in capital and surplus exceed the minimum required by the Louisiana Insurance Code by one hundred percent or more, or as otherwise provided. Any dividend or distribution that when aggregated with any other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months exceeds the lesser of (a) ten percent of the insurer's surplus as regards policyholders as of the thirty-first day of December next preceding; or (b) the net income of the insurer, not including realized capital gains, for the twelve month period ending the thirty-first day of December next preceding; is considered to be extra-ordinary and shall not be paid until thirty days after the LDI has received notice of the declaration thereof and has not within that period disapproved the payment, or until the LDI has approved the payment within the thirty-day period. In determining whether a dividend or distribution is extra-ordinary, an insurer may carry forward net income from the previous two calendar years that has not already been paid out in dividends. As of June 30, 2016, Maison had not paid any dividends to its sole shareholder, PIH. 16. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings: From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the Company's current reserves. In addition, the Company's estimate of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities, or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot be reasonably estimated, and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Company's results of operations in future periods. 23 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Operating Lease Commitments: As of June 30, 2016, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. 24 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on form 10-Q and in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2015 on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 17, 2016. Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our," refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Cautionary Note about Forward-Looking Statements This section of this quarterly report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions. We use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plan," "project," "continuing," "ongoing," "expect," "believe," "intend," "may," "will," "should," "could," and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements related to future events or future performance, but reflect management's current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events to differ materially from those anticipated, including the matters discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors on the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason. Overview Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, the Company changed its legal name from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. Prior to March 31, 2014, we operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America, Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services, Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, the Company completed an initial public offering of its common stock and then on June 13, 2014, the Company completed a follow-on offering. Through the combination of our IPO and follow-on offering, we issued approximately five million shares of our common stock. As of June 30, 2016 KAI and companies affiliated with KAI held approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock, equivalent to 17.7% of our outstanding shares. PIH has three wholly-owned subsidiaries; Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), a Louisiana-domiciled property and casualty insurance company, Maison Managers, Inc. ("MMI"), a managing general agent, incorporated in the State of Delaware on October 2, 2012, and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"), a Florida based claims adjusting company. Maison writes personal property and casualty insurance in Louisiana and both personal and commercial property and casualty insurance in Texas. Maison provides dwelling policies for wind and hail only, and dwelling, homeowner and mobile home/manufactured home policies for multi-peril property risks. Maison began writing commercial business in Texas in June 2015, through a quota-share agreement with Brotherhood Mutual Insurance Company ("Brotherhood"). Through this agreement, we have assumed wind/hail only exposures on certain churches and related structures Brotherhood insures throughout the State of Texas. Maison distributes its insurance policies through a network of more than 180 producing independent agents in Louisiana and approximately 90 producing independent agents in Texas. These agents typically represent several insurance companies in order to provide various insurance product lines to their clients. The Company refers to these policies as voluntary policies. In addition to the voluntary policies Maison writes, we have participated in the last four rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1 st of each year. As the State of Louisiana has not historically been in the business of serving as an insurer, an insurance "take-out" program was implemented to reduce the number of properties insured by Citizens. Under this take-out program, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by Citizens. 25 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Our in-force policy counts as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: We do not consider the commercial wind/hail only book of business we have written in Texas in our policies-in-force count as of June 30, 2016 since we have assumed this business through our quota share agreement with Brotherhood. As of June 30, 2016, we have assumed wind/hail coverage on approximately 620 active policies in Texas through this agreement. MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts with independent agents for policy sales and services, and contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of both the Louisiana and Texas Departments of Insurance ("LDI" and "TDI", respectively). We process claims made by our policyholders both internally, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, ClaimCor, as well as through various third-party claims adjusting companies. MMI has ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agents we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. On January 2, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the membership interest of ClaimCor, a claims and underwriting technical solutions company. Maison processing claims made by our policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. We have the ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agents we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. The Company operates in in a single segment property and casualty insurance. Non U.S.-GAAP Financial Measures The Company assesses its results of operations using certain non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are defined below. The Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating performance in the same manner as management does. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, any financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company's non-U.S. GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how we define our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. Underwriting Ratios The Company, like many insurance companies, analyzes performance based on underwriting ratios such as loss ratio, expense ratio and combined ratio. The loss ratio is derived by dividing the amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is derived by dividing the sum of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and general and administrative expenses by net premiums earned. All items included in the loss and expense ratios are presented in the Company's U.S. GAAP financial statements. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. A combined ratio below 100% demonstrates underwriting profit whereas a combined ratio over 100% demonstrates an underwriting loss. 26 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Critical Accounting Policies See Note 2 "Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2016 included in Item 1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the Company's critical accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2016 included in Item 1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the recent accounting pronouncements and their effect, if any, on the Company. Analysis of Financial Condition As of June 30, 2016 compared to December 31, 2015 Investments The Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at estimated fair value. The Company held an investments portfolio comprised primarily of fixed income securities issued by the U.S. Government, government agencies and high quality corporate issuers. The portfolio is managed by a third-party investment management firm in accordance with the investment policies and guidelines approved by Maison's Board of Directors. These guidelines stress the preservation of capital, market liquidity and the diversification of risk. Investments held by the Company's insurance subsidiary must also comply with applicable domiciliary state regulations that prescribe the type, quality and concentration of investments. The table below summarizes, by type, the Company's investments as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Pursuant to the certificate of authority we received from the TDI, we are required to deposit securities with the State of Texas. These securities consist of fixed income securities listed in the table above having an amortized cost basis of $2,002 and an estimated fair value of $2,033 as of June 30, 2016. The Company's limited liability investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $387 through June 30, 2016. One of these limited partnerships is managed by Argo Management Group, LLC, an entity which, as of April 21, 2016 is wholly owned by KFSI. The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. Liquidity and Cash Flow Risk The table below summarizes the fair value of the Company's fixed income securities by contractual maturity as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. 27 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data The Company holds cash and high-grade short-term assets which, along with fixed income securities, management believes are sufficient in amount for the payment of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and other operating subsidiary obligations on a timely basis. The Company may not be able to liquidate its investments in the event that additional cash is required to meet obligations to its policyholders, however, the Company believes that the high-quality, liquid investments in its portfolio provide it with sufficient liquidity. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in interest or currency exchange rates and equity prices. Given the Company's operations only invest in U.S. dollar denominated instruments and maintains a relatively insignificant investment in equity instruments, its primary market risk exposures in the investments portfolio are to changes in interest rates. Because the investments portfolio is comprised of primarily fixed maturity instruments that are usually held to maturity, periodic changes in interest rate levels generally impact the Company's financial results to the extent that the investments are recorded at market value and reinvestment yields are different than the original yields on maturing instruments. During periods of rising interest rates, the market values of the existing fixed income securities will generally decrease. The reverse is true during periods of declining interest rates. Credit Risk Credit risk is defined as the risk of financial loss due to failure of the other party to a financial instrument to discharge an obligation. Credit risk arises from the Company's positions in short-term investments, corporate debt instruments and government and government agency bonds. At June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company's debt securities had the following quality ratings as assigned by Standard and Poor's ("S&amp;P") or Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"). Other-Than-Temporary Impairment The length of time an individual investment may be held in an unrealized loss position may vary based on the opinion of the investment manager and their respective analyses related to valuation and to the various credit risks that may prevent the Company from recapturing the principal investment. In the case of an individual investment where the investment manager determines that there is little or no risk of default prior to maturity, the Company would elect to hold the investment in an unrealized loss position until the price recovers or the investment matures. In situations where facts emerge that might increase the risk associated with recapture of principal, the Company may elect to sell the investment at a loss. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of its investment portfolio to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. Further information regarding the Company's detailed analysis and factors considered in establishing an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment is discussed within Note 4 - "Investments," to the consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report. As a result of the analysis performed by the Company, there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments related to investments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. At June 30, 2016, the gross unrealized losses for fixed income and equity securities amounted to $12, and there were no unrealized losses attributable to non-investment grade fixed income securities. At both June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, all unrealized losses on individual investments were considered temporary. Fixed income securities in unrealized loss positions continued to pay interest and were not subject to material changes in their respective debt ratings. The Company concluded the declines in value were considered temporary. As the Company has the capacity to hold these investments to maturity, no impairment provision was considered necessary. 28 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs The Company's deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") include commissions, premium taxes, assessments and policy processing fees that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable and represent those costs related to acquiring the premiums the Company has yet to earn (the unearned premium reserve). DPAC increased $109, to $4,139 at June 30, 2016 from $4,030 at December 31, 2015, corresponding with the increase to our unearned premium reserve over the same time period. Effective January 1, 2016, we amended the terms of our quota-share agreement with Brotherhood such that the premiums we receive, and the commissions we pay, are remitted on an earned basis in contrast to a written basis, which occurred under the terms of the agreement prior to January 1 st . While this change does not impact the net income earned as a result of the agreement, it does impact certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated financial statements, such as our unearned premium reserves and DPAC assets. This change to our quota-share agreement with Brotherhood resulted in a $221 decrease to DPAC from December 31, 2015 to June 30, 2016. Premiums Receivable, Net of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Premiums receivable, net of allowance for credit losses, decreased by $184 to $2,211 as of June 30, 2016 from $2,395 as of December 31, 2015. Due to our participation in the Citizens take-out program on December 1, 2015, we had a balance due from Citizens in the amount of $460 as of December 31, 2015. This balance had been reduced to $72 as of June 30, 2016. Ceded Unearned Premiums Ceded Unearned Premiums represents the unexpired portion of premiums which have been paid to the Company's reinsurers. Ceded Unearned Premiums are charged to income over the terms of the respective reinsurance treaties. Ceded unearned premiums increased $1,082 to $3,887 as of June 30, 2016 from $2,805 as of December 31, 2015 which is predominantly due to the timing of installment payments due under our excess of loss catastrophe treaty. As we entered into a new treaty effective June 1, 2016, with higher limits compared to our prior treaty which expired on May 31, 2016, the amount of premium we cede and therefor is due under our installment agreement has increased over the prior treaty year. Reinsurance Recoverable Reinsurance recoverable on both paid losses and loss reserves represents amounts due to the Company, or expected to be due to the Company from its reinsurers, based upon claims paid as well as claims reserves which have exceeded the retention amount under our reinsurance treaties. As of June 30, 2016, we have recorded expected recoveries from our reinsurers of $2,829 on paid losses and $3,431 on loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, resulting primarily from a series of severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes and flooding in the state of Louisiana in late February 2016, as well as a wind and hail event occurring in both Texas and Louisiana in early March 2016. See "Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves" in Item 2 of this report for further discussion on the Company's claims reserves and expected recoveries. Funds Deposited with Reinsured Companies Funds deposited with reinsured companies represents collateral we had placed on deposit with Brotherhood based upon our quota-share agreement to reinsure a portion of Brotherhood's business for wind/hail coverage only. Pursuant to the agreement, we were required to fund our pro-rata portion of reserves Brotherhood had established for unearned premium, losses and loss adjustments expenses, and any other amounts for which Brotherhood had not been able to take credit for on its annual statutory financial statements. As of December 31, 2015, we had funded this obligation via a deposit of $725 made to Brotherhood under a trust agreement. Effective January 1, 2016, we modified our agreement with Brotherhood such that this deposit is no longer required. Current Income Taxes Recoverable/Payable Current income taxes recoverable were $1,006 as of June 30, 2016 compared to $965 as of December 31, 2015 which represent the estimate of both the Company's state and federal income taxes to be recovered for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and year ended December 31, 2015, respectively, less estimated payments made during each period. 29 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Net Deferred Income Taxes Net deferred income taxes decreased $303 to $203 as of June 30, 2016 compared to $506 as of December 31, 2015. Net deferred income taxes are comprised of approximately $2,198 and $2,310 of deferred tax assets, net of approximately $1,995 and $1,804 of deferred tax liabilities as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The change in the net deferred tax asset is primarily due to a decrease in the deferred tax assets related to our net operating loss carryforwards. Property and Equipment Property and equipment was $281 and $234 as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, and consists of computers, office equipment, and improvements at our leased facilities in Tampa, Florida and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, shown net of accumulated depreciation. Also included in these balances are vehicles we have purchased for the use of our sales representatives in the state of Texas. Our policy for the capitalization and depreciation of these assets can be found in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in Item 1 of this report. Other Assets Other assets increased $115, to $820 as of June 30, 2016 from $705 as of December 31, 2015. The major components of other assets, and the change therein, are shown below. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred and but not reported ("IBNR") loss events, as well as the related estimated loss adjustment expenses ("LAE"). The table below separates our loss reserves and LAE between IBNR and case specific estimates as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, and also shows the expected reinsurance recoverable on those reserves. (1) Homeowners refers to our multi-peril policies for traditional dwellings as well as mobile and manufactured homes. (2) Special property includes both our Fire and Allied lines of business, which are primarily wind/hail only products, and also includes the commercial wind/hail only business we have assumed through our agreement with Brotherhood. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company reported $128 of favorable development (redundancy) for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves from prior accident years. This favorable development was primarily related to our aggregate catastrophe reinsurance treaty, which runs from June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016, and has allowed us to recover multiple weather related claims once our excess of loss reinsurance retentions were met, as a result of significant storm activity in February and March 2016. Gross reserves as of June 30, 2016 were $5,884, an increase of $3,761 from December 31, 2015. A significant portion of this increase relates to reserves established for two weather related events that occurred during the last week of February and first week of March, accounting for $1,402 of the gross reserve as of June 30, 2016. Our reinsurance recoverable of $3,431 as of June 30, 2016 includes $1,415 related to these catastrophes. See 'Net Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses" in Item 2 of this report for further information. 30 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data The Company cannot predict whether loss and loss adjustment expense reserves will develop favorably or unfavorably from the amounts reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Any such development could have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial results for a given period. Unearned Premium Reserves Unearned premium reserves increased $1,482 to $24,924 as of June 30, 2016 compared to $23,442 as of December 31, 2015. The following table outlines the change in unearned premium reserves by line of business. Ceded Reinsurance Premiums Payable Ceded reinsurance premiums payable increased $2,417 to $5,700 as of June 30, 2016 compared to $3,283 as of December 31, 2015, primarily as a result of the timing of payments due under our reinsurance programs. The bulk of the balance payable as of June 30, 2016 represents a quarterly payment due under our catastrophe reinsurance program, which was paid in July, 2016. Agent Commissions Payable Agent commissions payable increased $349 to $752 as of June 30, 2016 versus $403 as of December 31, 2015. As agent commissions are paid in arrears, this balance represents commissions owed to the Company's independent agents on policies written throughout the months ended June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. As the commissions we pay to our agents are based upon a percentage of the premium our agents write, the balance due will vary directly with the volume of premium written in the previous month. Premiums Collected in Advance Premium deposits were $2,103 and $870 and represent cash the Company has received for policies which were not yet in-force as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Upon the effective date of coverage, advance premiums are reclassified to the unearned premium reserve account. Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities Accrued expenses and other liabilities increased $418, to $2,281 as of June 30, 2016 from $1,863 as of December 31, 2015. The major components of accrued expenses and other liabilities, as well as the change therein, are shown below. 31 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Related Party Transactions As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015. 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares") A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of fifteen dollars per share. The Warrant expires seven years from date of issuance. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds ten dollars per share for any twenty trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of twenty five dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On February 22, 2016 the Company's board of directors authorized a dividend payment on the Preferred Shares for shareholders of record as of February 23, 2016. Accordingly, on February 24, 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing the first annual dividend payment the Company has made on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to twenty five dollars per share outstanding plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Effect on Financial Condition and Statement of Operations Under the original MSA, the Company was required to pay Advisors a fee of 1% of written premiums on a monthly basis. The Company replaced this ongoing annuity by providing Advisors with an up-front cash payment and other consideration which lead to a one-time charge of $5,421 to the Company's operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 as follows: The issuance of the Warrants and Performance Shares had no effect on the Company's total shareholders' equity as they both resulted in equal and offsetting charges to the Company's retained earnings and additional paid-in capital. The fair value of the Warrant was estimated on grant date based upon the Black-Scholes option pricing model while a Monte Carlo model was utilized to determine the fair value of the Performance Shares due to the fact that these shares are only issuable based upon the achievement of certain market conditions. Since the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption provision requiring redemption on February 24, 2020, the Company was required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on the balance sheet instead of recording the value of these shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the ultimate redemption amount of the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to operations during the period the Preferred Shares are outstanding using the effective interest method. For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, amortization of the discount on the Preferred Shares totaled $86 and $174, respectively. 32 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2016, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. Shareholders' Equity The primary drivers behind the changes to total shareholders' equity for the six months ended June 30, 2016 were the purchase (and retirement) of treasury shares pursuant to the Company's share buyback program, as well as the net loss and net unrealized gains on our investment portfolio as shown below. Results of Operations Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 Compared with Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 Gross Premiums Written Gross premiums written increased $2,536 or 21%, for the three months ended June 30, 2016, when compared to the same period in 2015. On a year-to-date basis, gross premiums written increased $5,319 or 26%. The following table shows our direct premiums written by line of business. The increase in gross written premiums over the six month periods can be attributed to growth in all three channels of production: (i) production from our independent agents, which accounted for approximately $3,637 gross written premium growth corresponding to the increase in our policies in force over the period; (ii) growth in premiums written through our assumption of policies from Citizens, accounting for approximately $1,136; and (iii) the addition of assumed business in Texas through our agreement with Brotherhood, resulting in an increase of approximately $546 in gross premiums written. 33 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Ceded Premiums Written Ceded premiums written increased to $5,870 for the three months ended June 30, 2016, compared to $3,552 for the second quarter 2015. For the six month periods ending June 30, 2016 and 2015, ceded premiums written were $9,441 and $6,290, respectively. The increase in ceded premiums written is primarily due to an increase in limits purchased under our catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance ("CAT XOL") program. As our treaty years run from June 1 st through May 31 st of each year, the six month period ending June 30, 2015 covers ceded premiums written under both our 2014/2015 CAT XOL treaty and our 2015/2016 CAT XOL treaty. Similarly, the six month period ending June 30, 2016 covers ceded premiums written under both our 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 CAT XOL treaties. The following table is a summary of the key provisions under each of our CAT XOL treaties. (1) Specifies the time period during which our losses from the same occurrence may be aggregated and applied to our retention and limits. We may pick the date and time when the period of consecutive hours begin in order to maximize our recovery. The total cost of our CAT XOL coverage is estimated to be approximately $23,000 for the 2016/2017 treaty year. Net Premium Earned The following table shows our net premiums earned by line of business. The increase in net premiums earned is due primarily to the increase in gross written premiums less premiums ceded as previously discussed. Premium earned on a gross and ceded basis is as shown in the following table. Other Income Other income increased $99, to $254 for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, compared to $155 for the same period in 2015. Other income also increased $58 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015. Other income is comprised of claims adjusting fee revenue earned by our subsidiary, ClaimCor, policy fee income charged to our policyholders for inspections as well as premium financing fees for those policyholders which elect to pay their premiums on an installment basis, as well as commission revenue resulting from a brokerage sharing agreement between our insurance subsidiary, Maison, and the intermediary Maison uses to place its CAT XOL reinsurance program. Net losses and loss adjustment expenses Net losses and LAE represent both actual payments made and changes in estimated future payments to be made to our policyholders. The following table sets forth the components of our losses and loss ratios for the periods presented. 34 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data (1) We define Core Loss as net losses and LAE less the sum of Catastrophe losses and prior period redundancy. (2) Property Claims Services (PCS) defines a catastrophic event as an event where the insurance industry is estimated to incur over $25 million of insured property damage that also impacts a significant number of insureds. For purposes of the above table, we have defined a Catastrophe as a PCS event where our estimated cost exceeds $1,500. (3) Prior period development (redundancy) is the amount of ultimate actual loss settlement value which is more than the estimated reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss, while redundancy represents the ultimate actual loss settlement value which is less than the estimated and determined reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss. Our net loss ratio (net losses and LAE divided by net premiums earned) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 was 24.5% and 53.9% respectively, compared to a net loss ratio of 48.2% and 29.7% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015. While we experienced what we consider a lower than average amount of incurred losses in the first quarter 2015 (in both frequency and severity), the first quarter 2016 was marked by severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes throughout Louisiana and Texas in February and March 2016. Our total incurred losses from these two separate events exceeded $1,500 each, and thus we have defined these events as catastrophe losses in the table above. Our CAT XOL program is structured so that our retention is set at $4,000 for a single event, and when a second event occurs within the same treaty year, as did with the March 2016 storms, our retention drops to $1,000 for this second storm. After anticipated recoveries under both our catastrophe and per-risk reinsurance treaties, our net incurred losses from these events were $4,986 through June 30, 2016, accounting for over half of the current year's loss ratio. Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs for the second quarter 2016 was $2,063 compared to $1,571 for the second quarter of 2015, and includes items such as commissions earned by our agents, premium taxes, assessments, and policy processing fees. Amortization for the six months periods ending June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $4,053 and $3,097 respectively. Amortization charges correlate with earned premiums over the same period shown by calculating deferred policy acquisition cost amortization as a percentage of earned premiums, which was 27.4% and 25.1% for the three month periods, and 25.8% and 25.2% for the six month periods ending June 30, 2016 and 2015 respectively. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $1,746 for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, compared to $1,985 the quarter ended June 30, 2015. This decrease is primarily associated with a decrease in professional fees when comparing the two periods, as we incurred significant professional fees in the second quarter 2015 relating to our first ever annual shareholders' meeting and regulatory filings associated with our shareholders' meeting. These costs dropped significantly for the current quarter. General and administrative expenses expressed as a percentage of net premium earned have decreased to 21.1% for the six month period in 2016 compared to 30.1% for the same period 2015. In 2015, we incurred additional professional fees associated with the acquisition of ClaimCor, for which there was no comparable expense in 2016. Loss on Termination of Management Services Agreement Upon the termination of the MSA with 1347 Advisors, we recorded a loss of $5,421 for the six months ended June 30, 2015, representing the estimated fair value of the cash, warrants, preferred shares and performance shares paid to Advisors. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, we also recorded a charge in the amount of $174 associated with the amortization of the discount recorded on the preferred shares issued in the transaction, compared to a charge of $109 for the same period in 2015. See "Related Party Transactions" in the Analysis of Financial Condition above for further information on the termination of the MSA. Income Tax (Benefit) Expense Income tax expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $820, on pretax income of $2,160 compared to a benefit of $72 on pretax losses of $197 for the three months ended June 30, 2015. For the six month period ended June 30, 2016 income tax expense was $242 on pretax income of $467, compared to a benefit of $1,029 on pretax losses of $3,178 for the six month period ended June 30, 2015. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the foregoing, the Company's net income for the second quarter 2016 was $1,340 compared with a net loss of $125 for the second quarter of 2015. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company's net income was $225, or $0.04 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $2,149, or $0.34 per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2015. 35 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Liquidity and Capital Resources The purpose of liquidity management is to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet all financial commitments and obligations as they fall due. The liquidity requirements for the Company and its subsidiaries have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, and from the proceeds from the sales of our common and preferred stock. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for loss and LAE payments as well as other operating expenses. The timing and amount of payments for net losses and loss adjustment expenses may differ materially from the Company's provisions for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which may create increased liquidity requirements. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the Company's consolidated cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. Six months ended June 30, 2016 For the six months ended June 30, 2016, the net cash provided by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $3,672, driven, in large by our collection of approximately $19,900 in premiums for the year (net of the amounts we have ceded to our reinsurers), less the payment of approximately $10,100 in loss and LAE expenses (net of ceded recoveries collected from our reinsurers). We also paid approximately $3,415 in commissions to our agents, and to Brotherhood and Citizens as ceding commissions. Lastly, cash payments in the approximate amount of $2,713 were made for taxes, assessments and general and administrative expenses. The net cash used by investing activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $5,303, resulting from the net purchases of fixed income and equity securities for investment portfolio. Net cash used by financing activities was $761, which results from a dividend payment of $240 to Advisors as holders of the Preferred Shares issued in the MSA termination transaction, as well as the payment of $521 for the repurchase of 75,268 shares of our common stock pursuant to our share buyback program. As a result of the foregoing, our net decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the six months ending June 30, 2016 was $2,392. Six months ended June 30, 2015 For the six months ended June 30, 2015, the net cash provided by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $3,707. The source of cash was primarily from the collection of approximately $21,138 in premiums in the period. This amount was reduced by the payment of ceded reinsurance premiums of $5,407, the payment of losses and loss adjustment expenses (net of subrogation recoveries) of $3,144, the one-time cash payment of $2,000 to Advisors pursuant to the termination of the MSA, commissions paid to our agents equaling $2,320, wages and salaries paid to our employees equaling $997, payments to various local and federal regulators for premium and income taxes and assessments in the amount of $1,258, and other net operating payments of $2,305. The net cash used by investing activities as reported on our consolidated statements of cash flows was $4,580, primarily due to our purchase of fixed income securities for our investment portfolio. The net cash used by financing activities was $233, as a result of our purchase of 27,993 of our shares to be held as treasury stock. As a result of the foregoing, our net decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $1,106. 36 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Regulatory Capital In the United States, a risk-based capital ("RBC") formula is used by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") to identify property and casualty insurance companies that may not be adequately capitalized. Most states, including Louisiana, the domiciliary state of our insurance subsidiary, Maison, as well as Texas, where Maison began writing business in June 2015, have adopted the NAIC RBC requirements. In general, insurers reporting surplus with respect to policyholders below 200% of the authorized control level, as defined by the NAIC, on December 31 st of the previous year are subject to varying levels of regulatory action, which may include discontinuation of operations. As of June 30, 2016, Maison's reported surplus was considered to be in the "no action" level by the Louisiana Department of Insurance. Furthermore, pursuant to the consent order approving Maison's admission into the State of Texas, Maison has agreed to: Establish a deposit of $2,000 for the benefit of Texas policyholders. The Company has fulfilled this obligation by depositing fixed income securities, having an estimated fair value of $2,033 as of June 30, 2016, with the State of Texas. Maintain a Risk-Based-Capital ("RBC") ratio of 300% or more, and provide calculation of such ratio to the TDI on a periodic basis. Notify the TDI prior to any significant changes in our reinsurance programs.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 3 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 4 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 5 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 6 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Nature of Business Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, the Company changed its legal name from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. PIH holds all of the capital stock of three subsidiaries: Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), Maison Managers Inc. ("MMI"), and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"). Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Prior to March 31, 2014, PIH was a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, PIH completed an initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock. On June 13, 2014, PIH completed a follow-on offering of its common stock to the public. Through the combination of the Company's IPO and follow-on offering, PIH issued approximately five million shares of its common stock. As of September 30, 2016 KAI held approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock, which is equivalent to 18.0% of our outstanding shares. Maison began providing homeowners insurance, manufactured home insurance and dwelling fire insurance to individuals in Louisiana in December 2012. Maison writes both full peril property policies as well as wind/hail only exposures in Louisiana and distributes its policies through a network of independent insurance agencies. Maison began assuming wind/hail only insurance for commercial properties in Texas beginning in June 2015. In September 2015, Maison began writing manufactured home policies in the State of Texas on a direct basis. In March 2016, Maison began writing homeowner policies in Texas. In addition to the voluntary policies Maison writes, we have participated in the last four rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1 st of each year. As the State of Louisiana has not historically been in the business of serving as an insurer, an insurance "take-out" program was implemented to reduce the number of properties insured by Citizens. Under this program, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by Citizens. MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary, known as a managing general agency and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting, and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts primarily with independent agencies for policy sales and services, and also contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of both the Louisiana Department of Insurance ("LDI") and Texas Department of Insurance ("TDI"). On January 2, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the membership interest of ClaimCor, a claims and underwriting technical solutions company. Maison processes claims made by its policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. MMI has ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agencies we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. 2. Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation: These statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Principles of Consolidation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. 7 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements: The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Changes in estimates are recorded in the accounting period in which the change is determined. The critical accounting estimates and assumptions in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (as well as the associated reinsurance recoverable on those reserves), the valuation of fixed income and equity securities, the valuation of net deferred income taxes, the valuation of various securities we have issued in conjunction with the termination of the management services agreement with 1347 Advisors, LLC, the valuation of deferred policy acquisition costs, and stock-based compensation expense. Investments: Investments in fixed income securities and equity investments in common stock are classified as available-for-sale and reported at estimated fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, until sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized, at which point the cumulative unrealized gains or losses are transferred to the consolidated statement of operations. Limited liability investments include investments in limited liability companies in which the Company's interests are deemed minor and therefor, are accounted for under the cost method of accounting which approximates their fair value. Short-term investments, which consist of investments with original maturities between three months and one year, are reported at cost, which approximates fair value due to their short-term nature. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are determined on a first-in, first-out basis, and are included in net investment income. Interest income is included in net investment income and is recorded as it accrues. The Company accounts for its investments using trade date accounting. The Company conducts a quarterly review to identify and evaluate investments that show objective indications of possible impairment. Impairment is charged to the statement of operations if the fair value of the instrument falls below its amortized cost and the decline is considered other-than-temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company's ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents include cash and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. Premiums Receivable: Premiums receivable include premium balances due and uncollected and installment premiums not yet due from our independent agencies and insureds. Premiums receivable are reported net of an estimated allowance for credit losses. Reinsurance: Reinsurance premiums, losses, and loss adjustment expenses are accounted for on a basis consistent with those used in accounting for the original policies issued and the terms of the reinsurance contracts. Premiums and losses ceded to other companies have been reported as a reduction of premium revenue and incurred net losses and loss adjustment expenses. A reinsurance recoverable is recorded for that portion of paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses that are ceded to other companies. 8 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs: The Company defers commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other underwriting and agency expenses that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable. Costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which premiums are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred, as opposed to being deferred and amortized as the premium is earned. The method followed in determining the deferred policy acquisition costs limits the deferral to its realizable value by giving consideration to estimated future loss and loss adjustment expenses to be incurred as revenues are earned. Anticipated investment income is included in determining the realizable value of the deferred policy acquisition costs. Changes in estimates, if any, are recorded in the accounting period in which they are determined. Income Taxes: The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes, whereby deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for (i) the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and (ii) loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the date of enactment. Future tax benefits are recognized to the extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not and a valuation allowance is established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Current federal income taxes are charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is reported at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over estimated useful life which ranges from seven years for furniture, five years for vehicles, three years for computer equipment, and the shorter of estimated useful life or the term of the lease for leasehold improvements. Property and equipment is estimated to have no salvage value at its useful life-end. Rent expense for the Company's office leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Rent expense was $258 and $145 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Intangible Assets: Intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet represents a non-compete agreement associated with our acquisition of ClaimCor in January 2015. The Company amortizes identified intangible assets to expense over their estimated lives using the straight-line method. The Company evaluates intangible assets for impairment as events and circumstances change or at minimum, on an annual basis. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves: Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred but not yet reported loss events and the related estimated loss adjustment expenses. The Company performs a continuing review of its loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including its reserving techniques as well as the impact of reinsurance on our loss reserves. The loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are also reviewed at minimum, on an annual basis by qualified third party actuaries. Since the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on estimates, the ultimate liability may be more or less than such reserves. The effects of changes in such estimated reserves are included in the results of income in the period in which the estimates are changed. Such changes in estimates could occur in a future period and may be material to the Company's results of operations and financial position in such period. 9 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Concentration of Credit Risk: Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk include investments, cash, premiums receivable, and amounts due from reinsurers on losses incurred. The Company maintains its cash with two major U.S. domestic banking institutions and two regional banks headquartered in Florida. Such amounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") up to $250 per institution. At September 30, 2016 the Company held funds on deposit at these institutions in excess of FDIC insured amounts. The terms of these deposits are on demand to mitigate some of the associated risk. The Company has not incurred losses related to these deposits. The Company has not experienced significant losses related to premiums receivable from its policyholders and management believes that amounts provided as an allowance for credit losses is adequate. The Company has not experienced any losses on amounts due from reinsurers. In order to limit the credit risk associated with amounts potentially due from reinsurers, the Company uses several different reinsurers, all of which have an A.M. Best Rating of A- (Excellent) or better. Absent such rating, the Company has required its reinsurers to place collateral on deposit with an independent institution under a trust agreement for the Company's benefit. The Company also has risk associated with the lack of geographic diversification due to the fact that Maison exclusively underwrites policies in Louisiana and Texas. The Company insures personal property located in 62 of the 64 parishes in the State of Louisiana. As of September 30, 2016, these policies are concentrated within these parishes, presented as a percentage of our total policies in force in all states, as follows: Saint Tammany Parish 15.6%, Jefferson Parish 15.0%, East Baton Rouge Parish 7.9%, Orleans Parish 5.7%, Livingston Parish 5.6%, Tangipahoa Parish 5.5%, and Terrebonne Parish 5.2%. No other parish individually has over 5.0% of the policies in force as of September 30, 2016. The remaining counties or parishes combine to equal 33.7% of the total policies in force in both Texas and Louisiana as of September 30, 2016. On a direct basis, Maison writes in 90 of the 254 counties that comprise the State of Texas, however no single county represents over 5.0% of our total policies in force as of September 30, 2016. Revenue Recognition: Premium revenue is recognized on a pro rata basis over the term of the respective policy contract. Unearned premium reserves represent the portion of premium written that is applicable to the unexpired term of policies in force. Service charges on installment premiums are recognized as income upon receipt of related installment payments and are reflected in other income. Revenue from other policy fees is deferred and recognized over the terms of the respective policy period, with revenue reflected in other income. Any customer payment received is applied first to any service charge or policy fee due, with the remaining amount applied toward any premium due. Ceded premiums are charged to income over the applicable term of the various reinsurance contracts with third party reinsurers. Ceded unearned premiums represent the unexpired portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers and are reported as an asset on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Premiums collected in advance occur when the policyholder premium is paid in advance of the effective commencement period of the policy and are recorded as a liability on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Stock-Based Compensation: The Company has accounted for stock-based compensation under the provisions of ASC Topic 718 Stock Compensation which requires the use of the fair-value based method to determine compensation for all arrangements under which employees and others receive shares of stock or equity instruments (stock options and common stock purchase warrants). The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model using assumptions for expected volatility, expected dividends, expected term, and the risk-free interest rate. The fair value of each stock option award is recorded as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the period in which the stock options vest, with a corresponding increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company has also issued restricted stock units ("RSUs") to certain of its employees which have been accounted for as equity based awards since, upon vesting, they are required to be settled in the Company's common shares. The Company used a Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate the fair value of these awards upon grant date as the vesting of these RSUs occurs solely upon market-based conditions. The fair value of each RSU is recorded as compensation expense over the derived service period, as determined by the valuation model. Should the market-based condition be achieved prior to the expiration of the derived service period, any unrecognized cost will be recorded as compensation expense in the period in which the RSUs actually vest. 10 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The carrying values of certain financial instruments, including cash, short-term investments, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value due to their short-term nature. The Company measures the fair value of financial instruments in accordance with GAAP which defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset (or liability) in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. GAAP also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Earnings (loss) Per Common Share: Basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the respective period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive outstanding stock options, warrants or other convertible financial instruments. Potential common shares outstanding are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings (loss) per share if their effect is anti-dilutive. Operating Segments: The Company operates in a single segment property and casualty insurance. 3. Recently Issued Accounting Standards ASU 2015-09: Financial Services Insurance: In May 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2015-09: Financial Services Insurance (Topic 944): Disclosures about Short-Duration Contracts. This update provides for an increase in the transparency of accounting estimates made by companies in the measurement of short-duration contracts and unpaid claim and claim adjustment expense liabilities by requiring additional disclosures, as well as improvements to existing disclosures. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, applied retrospectively, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance will not have an impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position, or liquidity, as it simply requires additional disclosures surrounding our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves which will be included on our Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2016. ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. Most significantly, ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of an investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income (loss). ASU 2016-01 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2017 and will be applied using a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Adoption of ASU 2016-01 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position, cash flows, or total comprehensive income, but could impact the Company's results of operations and earnings (loss) per share as changes in fair value will be presented in net income (loss) rather than other comprehensive income (loss). 11 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) ASU 2016-02: Leases: In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02: Leases . ASU 2016-02 was issued to improve the financial reporting of leasing transactions. Under current guidance for lessees, leases are only included on the balance sheet if certain criteria, classifying the agreement as a capital lease, are met. This update will require the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability, discounted to present value, for all leases that extend beyond 12 months. For operating leases, the asset and liability will be expensed over the lease term on a straight-line basis, with all cash flows included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. For finance leases, interest on the lease liability will be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income and the repayment of the principal portion of the lease liability will be classified as a financing activity while the interest component will be included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, leases will be recognized and measured at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-09: Stock Compensation: In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09: Compensation Stock Compensation: Improvement to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . ASU 2016-09 was issued to simplify the accounting for share-based payment awards. The guidance requires that all tax effects related to share-based payment be made through the statement of operations at the time of settlement as opposed to the current guidance that requires excess tax benefits to be recognized in additional paid-in-capital. ASU 2016-09 also removes the requirement to delay recognition of a tax benefit until it reduces current taxes payable. The change is required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative effect adjustment to opening accumulated deficit. Additionally, all tax related cash flows resulting from share-based payments are to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows, a departure from the current requirement which presents tax benefits as an inflow from financing activities and an outflow from operating activities. ASU 2016-09 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company does not believe the adoption of ASU 2016-09 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments Credit Losses: In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13 was issued to provide financial statement users with more useful information regarding the expected credit losses on financial instruments held as assets. Under current GAAP, financial statement recognition for credit losses on financial instruments was generally delayed until the loss was probable of occurring. The amendments of ASU 2016-13 eliminate this probable initial recognition threshold and instead reflect an entity's current estimate of all expected credit losses. The amendments also broaden the information that an entity must consider in developing its expected credit loss estimates for those assets measured at amortized cost by using forecasted information instead of the current methodology which only considered past events and current conditions. Under ASU 2016-13, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities will be measured in a manner similar to current GAAP, however, the amendments require that credit losses be presented as an allowance against the investment, rather than as a write-down. The amendments also allow the entity to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income, which is prohibited under current GAAP. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. 12 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 4. Investments A summary of the amortized cost, estimated fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses on the Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities at September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 is as follows. The table below summarizes the Company's fixed income securities at September 30, 2016 by contractual maturity periods. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. The following table highlights, by loss position and security type, those fixed income and equity securities in unrealized loss positions as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. The tables segregate the holdings based on the period of time the investments have been continuously held in unrealized loss positions. There were 38 and 107 fixed income investments that were in unrealized loss positions as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The Company held no equity securities in unrealized loss positions at either date. 13 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Under the terms of the certificate of authority granted to Maison by the Texas Department of Insurance, Maison is required to pledge securities totaling at least $2,000 with the State of Texas. Maison deposited the required securities with the State of Texas on May 13, 2015. These securities consist of various fixed income securities listed in the preceding tables which have an amortized cost basis of $2,001 and estimated fair value of $2,027 as of September 30, 2016. The Company's other investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $387 through September 30, 2016. One of these limited partnerships is managed by Argo Management Group, LLC, an entity which, as of April 21, 2016 is wholly owned by KFSI (see Note 12 Related Party Transactions for further information). The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. Other-than-Temporary Impairment: The establishment of an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment requires a number of judgments and estimates. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of the individual investments to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. The analysis includes some or all of the following procedures as deemed appropriate by the Company: considering the extent, and length of time during which the market value has been below cost; identifying any circumstances which management believes may impact the recoverability of the unrealized loss positions; obtaining a valuation analysis from a third-party investment manager regarding the intrinsic value of these investments based upon their knowledge and experience combined with market-based valuation techniques; reviewing the historical trading volatility and trading range of the investment and certain other similar investments; assessing if declines in market value are other-than-temporary for debt instruments based upon the investment grade credit ratings from third-party credit rating agencies; assessing the timeliness and completeness of principal and interest payment due from the investee; and assessing the Company's ability and intent to hold these investments until the impairment may be recovered. The risks and uncertainties inherent in the assessment methodology used to determine declines in market value that are other-than-temporary include, but may not be limited to, the following: the opinions of professional investment managers could be incorrect; the past trading patterns of investments may not reflect their future valuation trends; the credit ratings assigned by credit rating agencies may be incorrect due to unforeseen events or unknown facts related to the investee company's financial situation; and the historical debt service record of an investment may not be indicative of future performance and may not reflect a company's unknown underlying financial problems. 14 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company has reviewed currently available information regarding the investments it holds which have estimated fair values that are less than their carrying amounts and believes that these unrealized losses are primarily due to temporary market and sector-related factors rather than to issuer-specific factors. The Company does not intend to sell these investments in the short term, and it is not likely that it will be required to sell these investments before the recovery of their amortized cost. Accordingly, all of the Company's investments were in good standing and there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments on the Company's investments for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. The Company does not have any exposure to subprime mortgage-backed investments. Net investment income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows: 5. Reinsurance The Company reinsures, or cedes, a portion of its written premiums on a per risk and excess of loss basis to non-affiliated insurers in order to limit its loss exposure. Although reinsurance is intended to reduce the Company's exposure risk, the ceding of insurance does not legally discharge the Company from its primary liability for the full amount of coverage under its policies. If the reinsurer fails to meet its obligations under the applicable reinsurance agreement, the Company would still be required to pay the insured for the loss. Under the Company's per-risk treaties, reinsurance recoveries are received for up to $1,750 in excess of a retention of $250 for each risk. The Company ceded $438 and $342 in written premiums under its per-risk treaties for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company's excess of loss treaties are based upon a treaty year beginning on June 1 st of each year and expiring on May 31 st of the following year. Thus, the financial statements for the nine month periods ending September 30, 2016 and 2015 contain premiums ceded under three separate excess of loss treaties. Under the Company's 2015/2016 excess of loss treaty which expired on May 31, 2016, for each catastrophic event occurring within a 144-hour period, the Company receives reinsurance recoveries of up to $121,000 in excess of a retention of $4,000 per event. The Company had also procured another layer of reinsurance protection that may be used for any event above $125,000, up to a maximum recovery of $15,000. This $15,000 second layer of coverage applied in total to all events occurring during the treaty year of June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016. The aggregate loss the Company would retain for two catastrophes occurring during the treaty year was $5,000. On June 1, 2016 the Company entered into a new excess of loss treaty whereby for each catastrophic event occurring within a 144-hour period, the Company receives reinsurance recoveries of up to $170,000 in excess of a $5,000 retention per event. For any event above $175,000, the Company purchased aggregate coverage, with an additional limit of $25,000. The $25,000 aggregate coverage applies in total to all events occurring during the June 1, 2016 to May 31, 2017 treaty year. The aggregate loss the Company would retain for two catastrophes occurring during the treaty year is $7,000. The Company ceded $14,976 and $9,512 in written premiums under its excess of loss treaties for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In June 2015, we began writing business through a quota-share agreement with Brotherhood Mutual Insurance Company ("Brotherhood"). Through this agreement, we act as a reinsurer, and have assumed wind/hail only exposures on certain churches and related structures Brotherhood insures throughout the State of Texas. Our quota-share percentage varies from 50%-100% of wind/hail premium written by Brotherhood, dependent upon the geographic location (coastal areas versus non-coastal areas) within the State of Texas. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we have written $1,367 in assumed premiums and have approximately 500 in-force policies under this agreement as of September 30, 2016. 15 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The impact of reinsurance treaties on the Company's financial statements is as follows: 6. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other policy processing fees incurred which are related to successful efforts to acquire new or renewal insurance contracts. Acquisition costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which the related revenues are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred. DPAC as well as the related amortization expense associated with DPAC for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, is as follows: 7. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves The Company continually revises its estimates of the ultimate financial impact of claims made. A significant degree of judgment is required to determine amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements for the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The process for establishing this provision reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in predicting future results of both known and unknown loss events. The process of establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relies on the judgment and opinions of a large number of individuals, including the opinions of the Company's independent actuaries. 16 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company's evaluation of the adequacy of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves includes a re-estimation of the liability for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relating to each preceding financial year compared to the liability that was previously established. The results of this comparison and the changes in the provision, net of amounts recoverable from reinsurers, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 8. Income Taxes Income tax expense (benefit) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 varies from the amount that would result by applying the applicable statutory federal income tax rate of 34% to income before income taxes as summarized in the following table: The Company carries a net deferred income tax asset of $555 and $506 at September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, all of which the Company believes is more likely than not to be fully realized based upon management's assessment of future taxable income. Significant components of the Company's net deferred tax assets are as follows: As of September 30, 2016, the Company had no unrecognized tax benefits. The Company analyzed its tax positions in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes, and has determined that there are currently no uncertain tax positions. The Company generally recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). 17 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 9. Net Loss Per Share Net loss per share is computed by dividing net loss attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding during the periods presented. In calculating diluted loss per share, those potential common shares that are found to be anti-dilutive are excluded from the calculation. The table below provides a summary of the numerators and denominators used in determining basic and diluted loss per share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. The following potentially dilutive securities outstanding at September 30, 2016 and 2015 have been excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as their effect would be anti-dilutive. 10. Options, Warrants, and Restricted Stock Units The Company has established an equity incentive plan for employees and directors of the Company (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to create incentives designed to motivate recipients to contribute toward the Company's growth and success, and also to attract and retain persons of outstanding competence, and provide such persons with an opportunity to acquire an equity interest in the Company. In April 2015, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Plan to allow for the issuance of additional award types under the Plan. In addition to non-qualified stock options issuable under the Plan, the amendment provides for the issuance of restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance shares, performance cash awards, and other stock-based awards. The Plan provides for the issuance of 354,912 shares of common stock. As of September 30, 2016, both stock options and RSUs have been issued to the Company's employees under the Plan resulting in 156,956 shares available for future issuance under the Plan. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's stock options for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The following table summarizes the Company's stock options outstanding as of September 30, 2016. On May 29, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors granted RSUs to certain of its executive officers under the Plan. Each RSU granted entitles the grantee to one share of the Company's common stock upon the vesting date of the RSU. The RSUs vest as follows: (i) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share and; (ii) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share. Prior to the vesting of the RSUs, the grantee will not be entitled to any dividends declared on the Company's common stock. The RSUs do not expire, however, should the grantee discontinue employment with the Company for any reason other than death or disability, all unvested RSUs will be deemed forfeited on the date employment is discontinued. The following table summarizes RSU activity for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. 18 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Due to the fact that the Company's RSUs vest based upon market conditions, the Company used a Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate their fair value as of the date of grant. Based on the model, the estimated fair value on grant date was determined to be $28, which the Company will recognize as compensation expense over a derived service period of approximately two years. Total stock based compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $30 and $47, respectively. As of September 30, 2016, total unrecognized stock compensation expense of $38 remained, which will be recognized through March 31, 2018. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's common stock warrants for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The following table summarizes the Company's warrants outstanding as of September 30, 2016. 11. Shareholders' Equity Treasury Shares On December 1, 2014, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to 500,000 shares of the Company's common stock. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company repurchased 78,637 and 153,905 shares, respectively. Through September 30, 2016, the Company has repurchased an aggregate 377,756 shares at an aggregate purchase price of $2,753, or $7.29 per share, including all fees and commissions. On January 29, 2016, the Company retired 250,000 of its treasury shares, resulting in a reclassification of the purchase price of $1,917 to additional paid in capital. We anticipate repurchases to continue to be made periodically at our discretion through the period ending December 31, 2016 as the Company's Board of Directors has approved an aggregate repurchase of up to 500,000 shares. Our decisions around the timing, volume, and nature of the share repurchases will be dependent upon market conditions, applicable securities laws, as well as other factors. 12. Related Party Transactions Related party transactions are carried out in the normal course of operations and are measured in part by the amount of consideration paid or received as established and agreed by the parties. Management believes that consideration paid for such services in each case approximates fair value. Except where disclosed elsewhere in these consolidated financial statements, the following is a summary of related party transactions. Performance Share Grant Agreement On March 26, 2014, the Company entered into the Performance Share Grant Agreement ("PSGA") with KAI whereby KAI will be entitled to receive up to an aggregate 375,000 shares of PIH common stock upon achievement of certain milestones regarding the Company's stock price. Pursuant to the terms of the PSGA, if at any time the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds: (i) $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock; (ii) $15.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 125,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clause (i) herein); and (iii) $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 250,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) herein). KAI will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the issuance of shares to KAI. As of September 30, 2016, the Company had not issued any shares under the PSGA. 19 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Termination of Management Services Agreement As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015. 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares") A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of fifteen dollars per share. The Warrant expires seven years from date of issuance. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds ten dollars per share for any twenty trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of twenty five dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On February 22, 2016 the Company's board of directors authorized a dividend payment on the Preferred Shares for shareholders of record as of February 23, 2016. Accordingly, on February 24, 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing the first annual dividend payment the Company has made on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to twenty five dollars per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Accounting for the Buyout Transaction As a result of the termination of the MSA agreement, the Company recognized total expenses in the amount of $5,421 for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 as follows: 20 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company applied the guidance outlined in ASC 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity in recording the issuance of the Series B Preferred Shares. Due to the fact that the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption date of February 24, 2020, the guidance required that we classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet, rather than recording the value of the shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the $4,200 redemption amount plus dividends expected to be paid on the Preferred Shares while outstanding, discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, total amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to interest expense through February 24, 2020 using the effective interest method. The Company applied the guidance outlined in ASC 505-50 Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees in recording the issuance of the Warrants and Performance Shares by recognizing an increase to equity for the estimated fair value of both instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2015. We estimated the fair value of the Warrants on grant date based upon the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of the Warrants were as follows: We utilized a Monte Carlo simulation model to determine the estimated fair value of the Performance Shares due to the fact that shares are only issuable based upon the achievement of certain market conditions. This pricing model uses multiple simulations to evaluate the probability of achieving the market conditions, as well as a number of other inputs (some of which are Level 3 inputs as defined by the FASB) with respect to the expected volatility and dividend yield (among other inputs) of the Company's common shares. Based upon these models, the estimated fair value of both the Warrants and Performance Shares was determined to be $1,010 on the date of grant . Investment in Limited Liability Company On April 21, 2016, KFSI completed the acquisition of Argo Management Group LLC ("Argo"). Argo's primary business is to act as the Managing Member of Argo Holdings Fund I, LLC, an investment fund in which the Company has committed to invest $500, of which the Company has invested $100 as of September 30, 2016. The managing member of Argo, Mr. John T. Fitzgerald, was also appointed to KFSI's board of directors on April 21, 2016. 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The table below details the change in the balance of each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. 14. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is best evidenced by quoted bid or ask price, as appropriate, in an active market. Where bid or ask prices are not available, such as in an illiquid or inactive market, the closing price of the most recent transaction of that instrument subject to appropriate adjustments as required is used. Where quoted market prices are not available, the quoted prices of similar financial instruments or valuation models with observable market based inputs are used to estimate the fair value. These valuation models may use multiple observable market inputs, including observable interest rates, foreign exchange rates, index levels, credit spreads, equity prices, counterparty credit quality, corresponding market volatility levels and option volatilities. Minimal management judgment is required for fair values calculated using quoted market prices or observable market inputs for models. Greater subjectivity is required when making valuation adjustments for financial instruments in inactive markets or when using models where observable parameters do not exist. Also, the calculation of estimated fair value is based on market conditions at a specific point in time and may not be reflective of future fair values. For the Company's financial instruments carried at cost or amortized cost, the book value is not adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in fair value due to market fluctuations, including those due to interest rate changes, as it is the Company's intention to hold them until there is a recovery of fair value, which may be to maturity. 21 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company classifies its investments in fixed income and equity securities as available-for-sale and reports these investments at fair value. Fair values of fixed income securities for which no active market exists are derived from quoted market prices of similar instruments or other third-party evidence. The FASB has issued guidance that defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for and asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal, or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants. This guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires and entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The guidance categorizes assets and liabilities at fair value into one of three different levels depending on the observation of the inputs employed in the measurements, as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets providing the most reliable measurement of fair value since it is directly observable. Level 2 inputs to the valuation methodology which include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets. These inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly for substantially the full-term of the financial instrument. Level 3 inputs to the valuation methodology which are unobservable and significant to the measurement of fair value. Financial instruments measured at fair value as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 in accordance with this guidance are as follows. 15. Statutory Requirements The Company's insurance subsidiary, Maison prepares statutory basis financial statements in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the LDI. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include state laws, rules and regulations as well as accounting practices and rules as outlined in a variety of publications of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices that are not prescribed, but instead have been specifically requested by an insurer and allowed by the state in which the insurer is domiciled (in Maison's case, Louisiana). Permitted practices may differ from state to state, company to company within a state, and may change in the future. In converting from statutory accounting basis to U.S. GAAP, typical adjustments include the deferral of acquisition costs (which are all charged to operations as incurred on a statutory basis), the inclusion of statutorily non-admitted assets on the balance sheet, the inclusion of net unrealized holding gains or losses related to investments included on the balance sheet, as well as the inclusion of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the statement of operations. 22 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Statutory Surplus and Capital Requirements In order to retain its certificate of authority in the State of Louisiana, Maison is required to maintain a minimum capital surplus of $5,000. As of September 30, 2016 Maison's capital surplus was $17,966. The LDI employs risk-based capital ("RBC") reports to monitor Maison's financial condition. Risk-based capital is determined in accordance with a formula adopted by the NAIC which takes into consideration the covariance between asset risk, credit risk, underwriting risk, and other business risks. The RBC report determines whether Maison falls into the "no action" level or one of the four action levels set forth in the Louisiana Insurance Code. Furthermore, in order to retain its certificate of authority in the State of Texas, Maison is required to maintain an RBC ratio of 300% or more. As of September 30, 2016, Maison's RBC ratio was above 300%. States routinely require deposits of assets for the protection of policyholders. As of September 30, 2016, Maison held investment securities with a fair value of approximately $100 as a deposit with the LDI and investment securities with a fair value of approximately $2,027 as a deposit with the TDI. Surplus Notes PIH, as the parent company of Maison, is subject to the insurance holding company laws of the State of Louisiana, which, among other things, regulate the terms of surplus notes issued by insurers to their parent company. Maison's capital is comprised of four surplus notes issued to PIH for the total principal amount of $5,500, all of which have been approved by the LDI prior to their issuance. The first note, issued in October 2013 in the principal amount of $650 will mature in October 2017. The second note, in the principal amount of $850 was issued in December 2015 and will mature in December 2017. The third note was issued in March 2016 in the principal amount of $550 and will mature in March 2018. The fourth note, in the principal amount of $3,450, was issued in September 2016 and will mature in September 2018. All notes accrue interest at 10% per annum. Interest payments on the notes are due annually, and are also subject to prior approval by the LDI. Dividend Restrictions As a Louisiana domiciled insurer, the payment of dividends from our insurance subsidiary is restricted by the Louisiana Insurance Code. Dividends can only be paid if an insurer's paid-in capital and surplus exceed the minimum required by the Louisiana Insurance Code. Any dividend or distribution that when aggregated with any other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months exceeds the lesser of (a) ten percent of the insurer's surplus as regards policyholders as of the thirty-first day of December next preceding; or (b) the net income of the insurer, not including realized capital gains, for the twelve month period ending the thirty-first day of December next preceding; is considered to be extra-ordinary and shall not be paid until thirty days after the LDI has received notice of the declaration thereof and has not within that period disapproved the payment, or until the LDI has approved the payment within the thirty-day period. In determining whether a dividend or distribution is extra-ordinary, an insurer may carry forward net income from the previous two calendar years that has not already been paid out in dividends. As of September 30, 2016, Maison had not paid any dividends to its sole shareholder, PIH. 16. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings: From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the Company's current reserves. In addition, the Company's estimate of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities, or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot be reasonably estimated, and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Company's results of operations in future periods. 23 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Operating Lease Commitments: As of September 30, 2016, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. 17. Subsequent Event Participation in Texas Windstorm Insurance Association Depopulation On September 30, 2016, the Company's insurance subsidiary, Maison was notified by the State of Texas that it has been approved to assume wind/hail only policies under the 2016-2017 Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA") assumption reinsurance depopulation program pursuant to various guidelines developed by the TDI under the Texas Insurance Code. On November 7, 2016, Maison was notified that it had initially assumed approximately 1,700 policies under the program. Under the terms of the program, assumption of premium will occur on December 1, 2016. Pursuant to the approval, Maison will be required to increase its contributed capital by $550, which Maison intends to accomplish via the issuance of a surplus note to Maison's parent, PIH, prior to November 16, 2016. 24 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on form 10-Q and in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2015 on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 17, 2016. Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our," refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Cautionary Note about Forward-Looking Statements This section of this quarterly report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions. We use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plan," "project," "continuing," "ongoing," "expect," "believe," "intend," "may," "will," "should," "could," and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements related to future events or future performance, but reflect management's current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events to differ materially from those anticipated, including the matters discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors on the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason. Overview Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, the Company changed its legal name from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. Prior to March 31, 2014, the Company operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America, Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services, Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, the Company completed an initial public offering of its common stock and then on June 13, 2014, the Company completed a follow-on offering. Through the combination of the IPO and follow-on offering, the Company issued approximately five million shares of its common stock. As of September 30, 2016 KAI and companies affiliated with KAI held approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock, equivalent to 18.0% of our outstanding shares. PIH has three wholly-owned subsidiaries; Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), a Louisiana-domiciled property and casualty insurance company, Maison Managers, Inc. ("MMI"), a managing general agent, incorporated in the State of Delaware on October2, 2012, and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"), a Florida based claims adjusting company. Maison writes personal property and casualty insurance in Louisiana and both personal and commercial property and casualty insurance in Texas. Maison provides dwelling policies for wind and hail only, and dwelling, homeowner and mobile home/manufactured home policies for multi-peril property risks. Maison began writing commercial business in Texas in June 2015, through a quota-share agreement with Brotherhood Mutual Insurance Company ("Brotherhood"). Through this agreement, Maison has assumed wind/hail only exposures on certain churches and related structures Brotherhood insures throughout the State of Texas. Maison distributes its insurance policies through a network of independent agencies in Louisiana and Texas. These agencies typically represent several insurance companies in order to provide various insurance product lines to their clients. The Company refers to these policies as voluntary policies. In addition to the voluntary policies Maison writes, we have participated in the last four rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1st of each year. Under this take-out program, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by Citizens. 25 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Our in-force policy counts as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: We do not consider the commercial wind/hail only book of business we have written in Texas in our policies-in-force count as of September 30, 2016 since we have assumed this business through our quota share agreement with Brotherhood. As of September 30, 2016, we have assumed wind/hail coverage on approximately 500 in-force policies in Texas through this agreement. MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts with independent agencies for policy sales and services, and contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of both the Louisiana and Texas Departments of Insurance ("LDI" and "TDI", respectively). On January 2, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the membership interest of ClaimCor, a claims and underwriting technical solutions company. Maison processing claims made by our policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. We have the ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agencies we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. The Company operates in in a single segment property and casualty insurance. As previously announced on October 17, 2016, the Company and its Board of Directors have commenced a strategic and financial review to evaluate various means of enhancing shareholder value. This review will include, among other things, a thorough evaluation of the Company's current operating plan and assessing potential new states or geographies in which the Company can grow while generating appropriate returns on equity with controlled risk. The Board of Directors and management will also examine value-enhancing initiatives such as continuing and expanding the Company's share-repurchase program, sale of certain assets of the Company, or some other business combination. There can be no assurance that this strategic and financial review will result in any specific action or outcome. The Company does not intend to comment further regarding such review but does expect to provide an update to shareholders before the end of the fiscal year. Non U.S.-GAAP Financial Measures The Company assesses its results of operations using certain non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are defined below. The Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating performance in the same manner as management does. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, any financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company's non-U.S. GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how we define our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. Underwriting Ratios The Company, like many insurance companies, analyzes performance based on underwriting ratios such as loss ratio, expense ratio and combined ratio. The loss ratio is derived by dividing the amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is derived by dividing the sum of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and general and administrative expenses by net premiums earned. All items included in the loss and expense ratios are presented in the Company's U.S. GAAP financial statements. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. A combined ratio below 100% demonstrates underwriting profit whereas a combined ratio over 100% demonstrates an underwriting loss. 26 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Critical Accounting Policies See Note 2 "Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 included in Item 1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the Company's critical accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 included in Item 1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the recent accounting pronouncements and their effect, if any, on the Company. Analysis of Financial Condition As of September 30, 2016 compared to December 31, 2015 Investments The Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at estimated fair value. The Company held an investments portfolio comprised primarily of fixed income securities issued by the U.S. Government, government agencies and high quality corporate issuers. The portfolio is managed by a third-party investment management firm in accordance with the investment policies and guidelines approved by Maison's Board of Directors. These guidelines stress the preservation of capital, market liquidity and the diversification of risk. Investments held by the Company's insurance subsidiary must also comply with applicable domiciliary state regulations that prescribe the type, quality and concentration of investments. The table below summarizes, by type, the Company's investments as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Pursuant to the certificate of authority we received from the TDI, we are required to deposit securities with the State of Texas. These securities consist of fixed income securities listed in the table above having an amortized cost basis of $2,001 and an estimated fair value of $2,027 as of September 30, 2016. The Company's limited liability investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $387 through September 30, 2016. One of these limited partnerships is managed by Argo Management Group, LLC, an entity which, as of April 21, 2016 is wholly owned by KFSI. The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. 27 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Liquidity and Cash Flow Risk The table below summarizes the fair value of the Company's fixed income securities by contractual maturity as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. The Company holds cash and high-grade short-term assets which, along with fixed income securities, management believes are sufficient in amount for the payment of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and other operating subsidiary obligations on a timely basis. The Company may not be able to liquidate its investments in the event that additional cash is required to meet obligations to its policyholders, however, the Company believes that the high-quality, liquid investments in its portfolio provide it with sufficient liquidity. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in interest or currency exchange rates and equity prices. Given the Company's operations only invest in U.S. dollar denominated instruments and maintains a relatively insignificant investment in equity instruments, its primary market risk exposures in the investments portfolio are to changes in interest rates. Because the investments portfolio is comprised of primarily fixed maturity instruments that are usually held to maturity, periodic changes in interest rate levels generally impact the Company's financial results to the extent that the investments are recorded at market value and reinvestment yields are different than the original yields on maturing instruments. During periods of rising interest rates, the market values of the existing fixed income securities will generally decrease. The reverse is true during periods of declining interest rates. Credit Risk Credit risk is defined as the risk of financial loss due to failure of the other party to a financial instrument to discharge an obligation. Credit risk arises from the Company's positions in short-term investments, corporate debt instruments and government and government agency bonds. At September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company's debt securities had the following quality ratings as assigned by Standard and Poor's ("S&P") or Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"). Other-Than-Temporary Impairment The length of time an individual investment may be held in an unrealized loss position may vary based on the opinion of the investment manager and their respective analyses related to valuation and to the various credit risks that may prevent the Company from recapturing the principal investment. In the case of an individual investment where the investment manager determines that there is little or no risk of default prior to maturity, the Company would elect to hold the investment in an unrealized loss position until the price recovers or the investment matures. In situations where facts emerge that might increase the risk associated with recapture of principal, the Company may elect to sell the investment at a loss. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of its investment portfolio to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. Further information regarding the Company's detailed analysis and factors considered in establishing an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment is discussed within Note 4 - "Investments," to the consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report. 28 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data As a result of the analysis performed by the Company, there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments related to investments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. As of September 30, 2016, the gross unrealized losses for fixed income and equity securities amounted to $17, and there were no unrealized losses attributable to non-investment grade fixed income securities. At both September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, all unrealized losses on individual investments were considered temporary. Fixed income securities in unrealized loss positions continued to pay interest and were not subject to material changes in their respective debt ratings. The Company concluded the declines in value were considered temporary. As the Company has the capacity to hold these investments to maturity, no impairment provision was considered necessary. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs The Company's deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") include commissions, premium taxes, assessments and policy processing fees that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable and represent those costs related to acquiring the premiums the Company has yet to earn (the unearned premium reserve). DPAC increased $339, to $4,369 at September 30, 2016 from $4,030 at December 31, 2015, corresponding with the increase to our unearned premium reserve over the same time period. Effective January 1, 2016, we amended the terms of our quota-share agreement with Brotherhood such that the premiums we receive, and the commissions we pay, are remitted on an earned basis. Previously, commissions and premiums were remitted on an as written basis. While this change does not impact the net income earned as a result of the agreement, it does impact certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated financial statements, such as our unearned premium reserves and DPAC asset. This change to our quota-share agreement with Brotherhood resulted in a $221 decrease to DPAC from December 31, 2015 to September 30, 2016. Premiums Receivable, Net of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Premiums receivable, net of allowances for credit losses, decreased by $293 to $2,102 as of September 30, 2016 from $2,395 as of December 31, 2015. Due to our participation in the Citizens take-out program on December 1, 2015, we had a balance due from Citizens in the amount of $460 as of December 31, 2015. This balance had been reduced to $62 as of September 30, 2016. Ceded Unearned Premiums Ceded unearned premiums represents the unexpired portion of premiums which have been paid to the Company's reinsurers. Ceded unearned premiums are charged to income over the terms of the respective reinsurance treaties. Ceded unearned premiums increased $1,646 to $4,451 as of September 30, 2016 from $2,805 as of December 31, 2015 which is predominantly due to the timing of installment payments due under our excess of loss catastrophe treaties. As we entered into a new treaty effective June 1, 2016, with higher limits compared to our prior treaty which expired on May 31, 2016, the amount of premium we cede and therefor due under our installment agreement has increased over the prior treaty year. Reinsurance Recoverable Reinsurance recoverable on both paid losses and loss reserves represents amounts due to the Company, or expected to be due to the Company from its reinsurers, based upon claims paid as well as claims reserves which have exceeded the retention amount under our reinsurance treaties. As of September 30, 2016, we have recorded expected recoveries from our reinsurers of $2,620 on paid losses and $5,366 on loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, resulting primarily from a series of severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes and flooding in the state of Louisiana in late February 2016, a wind and hail event occurring in both Texas and Louisiana in early March 2016, as well as a wind and flooding event which occurred in Louisiana in mid-August 2016. See "Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves" in Item 2 of this report for further discussion on the Company's claims reserves and expected recoveries. Funds Deposited with Reinsured Companies Funds deposited with reinsured companies represents collateral we had placed on deposit with Brotherhood based upon our quota-share agreement to reinsure a portion of Brotherhood's business for wind/hail coverage only. Pursuant to the agreement, we were required to fund our pro-rata portion of reserves Brotherhood had established for unearned premium, losses and loss adjustments expenses, and any other amounts for which Brotherhood had not been able to take credit for on its annual statutory financial statements. As of December 31, 2015, we had funded this obligation via a deposit of $725 made to Brotherhood under a trust agreement. Effective January 1, 2016, we modified our agreement with Brotherhood such that this deposit is no longer required. 29 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Current Income Taxes Recoverable/Payable Current income taxes recoverable were $1,571 as of September 30, 2016 compared to $965 as of December 31, 2015 which represent the estimate of both the Company's state and federal income taxes to be recovered for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and year ended December 31, 2015, respectively, less estimated payments made during each period. Net Deferred Income Taxes Net deferred income taxes increased $49 to $555 as of September 30, 2016 compared to $506 as of December 31, 2015. Net deferred income taxes are comprised of approximately $2,638 and $2,310 of deferred tax assets, net of approximately $1,083 and $1,804 of deferred tax liabilities as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The change in the net deferred tax asset is primarily due to an increase in the deferred tax assets related to our net operating loss carryforwards and unearned premium reserves. Property and Equipment Property and equipment was $266 and $234 as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, and consists of computers, office equipment, and improvements at our leased facilities in Tampa, Florida and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, shown net of accumulated depreciation. Also included in these balances are vehicles we have purchased for the use of our sales representatives in the state of Texas. Our policy for the capitalization and depreciation of these assets can be found in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in Item 1 of this report. Other Assets Other assets increased $69, to $774 as of September 30, 2016 from $705 as of December 31, 2015. The major components of other assets, and the change therein, are shown below. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred and but not reported ("IBNR") loss events, as well as the related estimated loss adjustment expenses ("LAE"). The table below separates our loss reserves and LAE between IBNR and case specific estimates as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, and also shows the expected reinsurance recoverable on those reserves. (1)Homeowners refers to our multi-peril policies for traditional dwellings as well as mobile and manufactured homes. (2)Special property includes both our fire and allied lines of business, which are primarily wind/hail only products, and also includes the commercial wind/hail only business we have assumed through our agreement with Brotherhood. 30 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company reported $173 of favorable development (redundancy) for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves from prior accident years. This favorable development was primarily related to our aggregate catastrophe reinsurance treaty, which ran from June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016, and has allowed us to recover multiple weather related claims once our excess of loss reinsurance retentions were met, as a result of significant storm activity in February and March 2016. Gross reserves as of September 30, 2016 were $8,627, an increase of $6,504 from December 31, 2015. A significant portion of this increase relates to reserves established for three weather related events in the markets we serve that occurred in February, March and August 2016, accounting for approximately $3,581 of the gross reserve as of September 30, 2016. Our reinsurance recoverable of $5,366 as of September 30, 2016 includes the same amount as due from our reinsurers as we have met the retention pursuant to our catastrophe excess of loss treaties for these three events. See 'Net Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses" in Item 2 of this report for further information. The Company cannot predict whether loss and loss adjustment expense reserves will develop favorably or unfavorably from the amounts reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Any such development could have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial results for a given period. Unearned Premium Reserves Unearned premium reserves increased $2,902 to $26,344 as of September 30, 2016 compared to $23,442 as of December 31, 2015. The following table outlines the change in unearned premium reserves by line of business. Ceded Reinsurance Premiums Payable Ceded reinsurance premiums payable increased $2,333 to $5,616 as of September 30, 2016 compared to $3,283 as of December 31, 2015, primarily as a result of the timing of payments due under our reinsurance programs. As we continue to increase the premiums we write on a gross basis, the amount of premium we cede to our reinsurers will also generally increase. The bulk of the balance payable as of September 30, 2016 represents a quarterly payment due under our catastrophe reinsurance program, which was paid in October 2016. Agency Commissions Payable Agency commissions payable increased $139 to $542 as of September 30, 2016 versus $403 as of December 31, 2015. As agency commissions are paid in arrears, this balance represents commissions owed to the Company's independent agencies on policies written throughout the months ended September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. As the commissions we pay to our independent agencies are based upon a percentage of the premium our agencies write, the balance due will vary directly with the volume of premium written in the previous month. Premiums Collected in Advance Premium deposits were $1,689 and $870 and represent cash the Company has received for policies which were not yet in-force as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Upon the effective date of coverage, advance premiums are reclassified to the unearned premium reserve account. Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities Accrued expenses and other liabilities decreased $85, to $1,778 as of September 30, 2016 from $1,863 as of December 31, 2015. The major components of accrued expenses and other liabilities, as well as the change therein, are shown below. 31 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Related Party Transactions As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015. 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares") A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of fifteen dollars per share. The Warrant expires seven years from date of issuance. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds ten dollars per share for any twenty trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of twenty five dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On February 22, 2016 the Company's board of directors authorized a dividend payment on the Preferred Shares for shareholders of record as of February 23, 2016. Accordingly, on February 24, 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing the first annual dividend payment the Company has made on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to twenty five dollars per share outstanding plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Effect on Financial Condition and Statement of Operations Under the original MSA, the Company was required to pay Advisors a fee of 1% of written premiums on a monthly basis. The Company replaced this ongoing annuity by providing Advisors with an up-front cash payment and other consideration which lead to a one-time charge of $5,421 to the Company's operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 as follows: The issuance of the Warrants and Performance Shares had no effect on the Company's total shareholders' equity as they both resulted in equal and offsetting charges to the Company's retained earnings and additional paid-in capital. The fair value of the Warrant was estimated on grant date based upon the Black-Scholes option pricing model while a Monte Carlo model was utilized to determine the fair value of the Performance Shares due to the fact that these shares are only issuable based upon the achievement of certain market conditions. Since the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption provision requiring redemption on February 24, 2020, the Company was required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on the balance sheet instead of recording the value of these shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the ultimate redemption amount of the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to operations during the period the Preferred Shares are outstanding using the effective interest method. For the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2016, amortization of the discount on the Preferred Shares totaled $89 and $263, respectively. 32 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Investment in Limited Liability Company On April 21, 2016, KFSI completed the acquisition of Argo Management Group LLC ("Argo"). Argo's primary business is to act as the Managing Member of Argo Holdings Fund I, LLC, an investment fund in which the Company has committed to invest $500, of which the Company has invested $100 as of September 30, 2016. The managing member of Argo, Mr. John T. Fitzgerald, was also appointed to KFSI's board of directors on April 21, 2016. Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2016, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. Shareholders' Equity The primary drivers behind the changes to total shareholders' equity for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 were the purchase (and retirement) of treasury shares pursuant to the Company's share buyback program, as well as the Company's net loss from operations and net unrealized gains on our investment portfolio as shown below. Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Compared with Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Gross Premiums Written Gross premiums written increased $2,163 or 18% for the three months ended September 30, 2016, when compared to the same period in 2015. On a year-to-date basis, gross premiums written increased $7,482 or 23% to $39,484. The following table shows our direct premiums written by line of business. 33 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Ceded Premiums Written Ceded premiums written increased to $5,973 for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to $3,564 for the same period 2015. For the nine month periods ending September 30, 2016 and 2015, ceded premiums written were $15,414 and $9,854, respectively, an increase of $5,560. The increase in ceded premiums written is primarily due to an increase in limits purchased under our catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance ("CAT XOL") program. As our treaty years run from June 1 st through May 31 st of each year, the nine month period ending September 30, 2015 covers ceded premiums written under both our 2014/2015 CAT XOL treaty and our 2015/2016 CAT XOL treaty. Similarly, the nine month period ending September 30, 2016 covers ceded premiums written under both our 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 CAT XOL treaties. The following table is a summary of the key provisions under each of our CAT XOL treaties. (1) Specifies the time period during which our losses from the same occurrence may be aggregated and applied to our retention and limits. We may pick the date and time when the period of consecutive hours begin in order to maximize our recovery. The total cost of our CAT XOL coverage is estimated to be approximately $21,000 for the 2016/2017 treaty year. Net Premium Earned The following table shows our net premiums earned by line of business. The increase in net premiums earned is due primarily to the increase in gross written premiums less premiums ceded as previously discussed. Premium earned on a gross and ceded basis is as shown in the following table. Other Income Other income increased $102 to $345 for the quarter ended September 30, 2016, compared to $243 for the same period in 2015. Other income also increased $160 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015. Other income is comprised of claims adjusting fee revenue earned by our subsidiary, ClaimCor, policy fee income charged to our policyholders for inspections, premium financing fees for those policyholders which elect to pay their premiums on an installment basis, and also commission revenue resulting from a brokerage sharing agreement between our insurance subsidiary, Maison, and the intermediary Maison uses to place its CAT XOL reinsurance program. Net losses and loss adjustment expenses Net losses and LAE represent both actual payments made and changes in estimated future payments to be made to our policyholders. The following table sets forth the components of our losses and loss ratios for the periods presented. 34 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data (1) We define Core Loss as net losses and LAE less the sum of catastrophe losses and prior period redundancy. (2) Property Claims Services (PCS) defines a catastrophic event as an event where the insurance industry is estimated to incur over $25 million of insured property damage that also impacts a significant number of insureds. For purposes of the above table, we have defined a catastrophe as a PCS event where our estimated cost exceeds $1,500. (3) Prior period development is the amount of ultimate actual loss settlement value which is more than the estimated reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss, while redundancy represents the ultimate actual loss settlement value which is less than the estimated and determined reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss. Our net loss ratio (net losses and LAE divided by net premiums earned) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 was 90.3% and 65.2% respectively, compared to a net loss ratio of 51.9% and 37.3% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015. While we experienced what we consider a lower than average amount of incurred losses in the first quarter 2015 (in both frequency and severity), the first quarter 2016 was marked by severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes throughout Louisiana and Texas in February and March 2016. Similarly, in August 2016, a tropical depression stalled over Louisiana resulting in severe flooding throughout the state. Our total incurred losses from these three separate events exceeded $1,500 each, and thus we have defined these events as catastrophe losses in the table above. The February and March events were covered under our 2015/2016 CAT XOL program which was structured such that our retention was set at $4,000 for the first event, and when a second event occurs within the same treaty year, as did with the March 2016 storms, our retention drops to $1,000 for this second storm. Since our reinsurance programs run from June 1 st through May 31 st of each year, the August 2016 flooding event was covered under our 2016/2017 CAT XOL program, and thus we were subject to a first occurrence retention of $5,000 for this storm. After anticipated recoveries under both our catastrophe and per-risk reinsurance treaties, our net incurred losses from these three events were $9,784 through September 30, 2016, accounting for approximately two-thirds of the current year's loss ratio. Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs for the third quarter 2016 was $2,095 compared to $1,676 for the third quarter of 2015, and includes items such as commissions earned by our agencies, premium taxes, assessments, and policy processing fees. Amortization for the nine months periods ending September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $6,148 and $4,773 respectively. Amortization charges correlate with earned premiums over the same period shown by calculating deferred policy acquisition cost amortization as a percentage of earned premiums, which was 29.4% and 26.2% for the three month periods, and 26.9% and 25.7% for the nine month periods ending September 30, 2016 and 2015 respectively. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $1,658 for the quarter ended September 30, 2016, compared to $1,624 the quarter ended September 30, 2015. General and administrative expenses expressed as a percentage of net premium earned have decreased to 21.8% for the nine month period in 2016 compared to 29.0% for the same period 2015 due, in large, to growth in our written premium outpacing increases in expenses. Loss on Termination of Management Services Agreement Upon the termination of the MSA with 1347 Advisors, we recorded a loss of $5,421 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, representing the estimated fair value of the cash, warrants, preferred shares and performance shares paid to Advisors. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we also recorded a charge in the amount of $263 associated with the amortization of the discount recorded on the preferred shares issued in the transaction, compared to a charge of $194 for the same period in 2015. See "Related Party Transactions" in the Analysis of Financial Condition above for further information on the termination of the MSA. Income Tax (Benefit) Expense Income tax benefit for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $847, on pretax losses of $2,653 compared to an expense of $82 on pretax losses of $21 for the three months ended September 30, 2015. For the nine month period ended September 30, 2016 income tax benefit was $605 on pretax losses of $2,186, compared to a benefit of $947 on pretax losses of $3,199 for the nine month period ended September 30, 2015. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the foregoing, the Company's net loss for the third quarter 2016 was $1,806 compared to a net loss of $103 for the third quarter of 2015. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company's net loss was $1,581, or $0.26 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $2,252, or $0.36 per diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. 35 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Liquidity and Capital Resources The purpose of liquidity management is to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet all financial commitments and obligations as they fall due. The liquidity requirements for the Company and its subsidiaries have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, and from the proceeds from the sales of our common and preferred stock. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for loss and LAE payments as well as other operating expenses. The timing and amount of payments for net losses and loss adjustment expenses may differ materially from the Company's provisions for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which may create increased liquidity requirements. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the Company's consolidated cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the net cash provided by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $1,659, driven, in large by our collection of approximately $27,500 in premiums for the year (net of the amounts we have ceded to our reinsurers), less the payment of approximately $13,700 in loss and LAE expenses (net of ceded recoveries collected from our reinsurers). We also paid approximately $5,300 in commissions to our agencies, as well as to Brotherhood and Citizens as ceding commissions. Lastly, cash payments in the approximate amount of $6,800 were made for taxes, assessments and general and administrative expenses. The net cash used by investing activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $9,428, resulting from the net purchases of fixed income, equity securities and short term investments for our investment portfolio. Net cash used by financing activities was $1,262, which results from a dividend payment of $240 to Advisors as holders of the Preferred Shares issued in the MSA termination transaction, as well as the payment of $1,022 for the repurchase of 153,905 shares of our common stock pursuant to our share buyback program. As a result of the foregoing, cash and cash equivalents decreased from $47,957 as of December 31, 2015 to $38,926 as of September 30, 2016. Nine months ended September 30, 2015 For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the net cash provided by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $4,804. The source of cash was primarily from the collection of approximately $32,658 in premiums in the period. This amount was reduced by the payment of ceded reinsurance premiums of $8,871, the payment of losses and loss adjustment expenses (net of subrogation recoveries) of $6,230, the one-time cash payment of $2,000 to Advisors pursuant to the termination of the MSA, commissions paid to our agencies equaling $4,271, wages and salaries paid to our employees equaling $1,705, payments to various local and federal regulators for premium and income taxes and assessments in the amount of $2,010, and other net operating payments of $2,767. The net cash used by investing activities as reported on our consolidated statements of cash flows was $6,746, primarily due to our purchase of fixed income securities for our investment portfolio. The net cash used by financing activities was $1,235, as a result of our purchase of 157,778 of our common shares to be held as treasury stock. As a result of the foregoing, our net decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $3,177. 36 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Regulatory Capital In the United States, a risk-based capital ("RBC") formula is used by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") to identify property and casualty insurance companies that may not be adequately capitalized. Most states, including Louisiana, the domiciliary state of our insurance subsidiary, Maison, as well as Texas, where Maison began writing business in June 2015, have adopted the NAIC RBC requirements. In general, insurers reporting surplus with respect to policyholders below 200% of the authorized control level, as defined by the NAIC, on December 31 st of the previous year are subject to varying levels of regulatory action, which may include discontinuation of operations. As of September 30, 2016, Maison's reported surplus was considered to be in the "no action" level by the Louisiana Department of Insurance. Furthermore, pursuant to the consent order approving Maison's admission into the State of Texas, Maison has agreed to: Establish a deposit of $2,000 for the benefit of Texas policyholders. The Company has fulfilled this obligation by depositing fixed income securities, having an estimated fair value of $2,027 as of September 30, 2016, with the State of Texas. Maintain a Risk-Based-Capital ("RBC") ratio of 300% or more, and provide calculation of such ratio to the TDI on a periodic basis. Notify the TDI prior to any significant changes in our reinsurance programs. Subsequent Event Participation in Texas Windstorm Insurance Association Depopulation On September 30, 2016, the Company's insurance subsidiary, Maison was notified by the State of Texas that it has been approved to assume wind/hail only policies under the 2016-2017 Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA") assumption reinsurance depopulation program pursuant to various guidelines developed by the TDI under the Texas Insurance Code. On November 7, 2016, Maison was notified that it had initially assumed approximately 1,700 policies under the program. Under the terms of the program, assumption of premium will occur on December 1, 2016. Pursuant to the approval, Maison will be required to increase its contributed capital by $550, which Maison intends to accomplish via the issuance of a surplus note to Maison's parent, PIH, prior to November 16, 2016.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 3 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 4 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 5 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 6 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 1. Nature of Business Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, its legal name was changed from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Prior to March 31, 2014, PIH was a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, PIH completed an initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock. On June 13, 2014, PIH completed a follow-on offering of its common stock to the public. Through the combination of the IPO and follow-on offering, PIH issued approximately five million shares of its common stock. As of March 31, 2017, KAI held approximately 975,000 shares of our common stock, which is equivalent to 16.4% of our outstanding shares. PIH has three wholly-owned subsidiaries; Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), a Louisiana-domiciled property and casualty insurance company, Maison Managers, Inc. ("MMI"), a managing general agent, incorporated in the State of Delaware, and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"), a Florida based claims solutions company. Maison processes claims made by its policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. MMI has ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agencies we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. Maison began providing homeowners insurance, manufactured home insurance and dwelling fire insurance to individuals in Louisiana in December 2012. Maison writes both full peril property policies as well as wind/hail only exposures in Louisiana and distributes its policies through a network of independent insurance agencies. Maison began assuming wind/hail only insurance for commercial properties in Texas beginning in June 2015. In September 2015, Maison began writing manufactured home policies in the State of Texas on a direct basis, and in March 2016, Maison began writing homeowner policies in Texas. In addition to the voluntary policies Maison writes, we have participated in the last five rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1st of each year as well as the inaugural depopulation of policies from the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA") which occurred on December 1, 2016. Under these programs, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by both Citizens and TWIA. On March 1, 2017 Maison received a certificate of authority from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR") which authorizes Maison to write personal lines insurance in the State of Florida. Pursuant to the Consent Order issued, Maison has agreed to comply with certain requirements as outlined by the FL OIR until Maison can demonstrate three consecutive years of net income following the Company's admission into Florida as evidenced by its Annual Statement filed with the FL OIR via the National Association of Insurance Commissioners electronic filing system. Among other requirements, the FL OIR requires the following as conditions related to the issuance of Maison's certificate of authority: Although domiciled in the State of Louisiana, Maison agreed to comply with the Florida Insurance Code as if Maison were a domestic insurer within the State of Florida; Maison agreed to maintain capital and surplus as to policyholders of no less than $35,000; Maison agreed to receive prior approval from the FL OIR prior to the payment of any dividends and; Maison agreed to receive written approval from the FL OIR regarding any form of policy issued, or rate charged to its policyholders prior to utilizing any such form or rate for policies written in the State of Florida. To comply with the Consent Order, on March 31, 2017, Maison received a capital contribution from PIH in the amount of $16,000. As of March 31, 2017 Maison has not written any insurance policies covering risks in the State of Florida. 7 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary, known as a managing general agency and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting, and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts primarily with independent agencies for policy sales and services, and also contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of the Louisiana Department of Insurance ("LDI"), Texas Department of Insurance ("TDI") and the FL OIR. 2. Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation: These statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Principles of Consolidation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. The Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements: The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Changes in estimates are recorded in the accounting period in which the change is determined. The critical accounting estimates and assumptions in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (as well as the associated reinsurance recoverable on those reserves), the valuation of fixed income and equity securities, the valuation of net deferred income taxes, the valuation of various securities we have issued in conjunction with the termination of the management services agreement with 1347 Advisors, LLC, and the valuation of deferred policy acquisition costs. Investments: Investments in fixed income and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at estimated fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, until sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized, at which point the cumulative unrealized gains or losses are transferred to the consolidated statement of operations. Other investments include investments in limited liability companies in which the Company's interests are deemed minor and therefor, are accounted for under the cost method of accounting which approximates their fair value and also an investment in a fixed rate certificate of deposit with an original maturity of 15 months. Short-term investments, which consist of investments with maturities between three months and one year, are reported at cost, which approximates fair value due to their short-term nature. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are determined on a first-in, first-out basis, and are included in net investment income. Interest income is included in net investment income and is recorded as it accrues. The Company accounts for its investments using trade date accounting. The Company conducts a quarterly review to identify and evaluate investments that show objective indications of possible impairment. Impairment is charged to the statement of operations if the fair value of the instrument falls below its amortized cost and the decline is considered other-than-temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company's ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. 8 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents include cash and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. Premiums Receivable: Premiums receivable include premium balances due and uncollected as well as installment premiums not yet due from our independent agencies and insureds. Premiums receivable are reported net of an estimated allowance for credit losses. Reinsurance: Reinsurance premiums, losses, and loss adjustment expenses are accounted for on a basis consistent with those used in accounting for the original policies issued and the terms of the reinsurance contracts. Premiums and losses ceded to other companies have been reported as a reduction of premium revenue and incurred net losses and loss adjustment expenses. A reinsurance recoverable is recorded for that portion of paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses that are ceded to other companies. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs: The Company defers commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other underwriting and agency expenses that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable. Costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which premiums are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred, as opposed to being deferred and amortized as the corresponding premium is earned. The method followed in determining the deferred policy acquisition costs limits the deferral to its realizable value by giving consideration to estimated future loss and loss adjustment expenses to be incurred as revenues are earned. Anticipated investment income is included in determining the realizable value of the deferred policy acquisition costs. Changes in estimates, if any, are recorded in the accounting period in which they are determined. Income Taxes: The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes, whereby deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for (i) the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and (ii) loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the date of enactment. Future tax benefits are recognized to the extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not and a valuation allowance is established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Current federal income taxes are charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is reported at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over estimated useful life which range from seven years for furniture, five years for vehicles, three years for computer equipment, and the shorter of estimated useful life or the term of the lease for leasehold improvements. Property and equipment is estimated to have no salvage value at its useful life-end. Rent expense for the Company's office leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Rent expense was $85 and $98 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves: Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred but not yet reported loss events and the related estimated loss adjustment expenses. The Company performs a continuing review of its loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including its reserving techniques as well as the impact of reinsurance on our loss reserves. The loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are also reviewed at minimum, on an annual basis by qualified third party actuaries. Since the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on estimates, the ultimate liability may be more or less than such reserves. The effects of changes in such estimated reserves are included in the results of income in the period in which the estimates are changed. Such changes in estimates could occur in a future period and may be material to the Company's results of operations and financial position in such period. 9 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Concentration of Credit Risk: Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk include investments, cash, premiums receivable, and amounts due from reinsurers on losses incurred. The Company maintains its cash with two major U.S. domestic banking institutions and two regional banks headquartered in the Southeastern United States. Such amounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") up to $250 per institution. At March 31, 2017, the Company held funds on deposit at these institutions in excess of these FDIC insured amounts. The terms of these deposits are on demand to mitigate some of the associated risk. The Company has not incurred losses related to these deposits. The Company has not experienced significant losses related to premiums receivable from its policyholders and management believes that amounts provided as an allowance for credit losses is adequate. The Company has not experienced any losses on amounts due from reinsurers. In order to limit the credit risk associated with amounts potentially due from reinsurers, the Company uses several different reinsurers, all of which have an A.M. Best Rating of A- (Excellent) or better. Absent such rating, the Company has required its reinsurers to place collateral on deposit with an independent institution under a trust agreement for the Company's benefit. The Company also has risk associated with the lack of geographic diversification due to the fact that Maison exclusively underwrites policies in Louisiana and Texas. The Company insures personal property located in 63 of the 64 parishes in the State of Louisiana. As of March 31, 2017, these policies are concentrated within these parishes, presented as a percentage of our total policies in force in all states, as follows: Saint Tammany Parish 14.6%, Jefferson Parish 13.4%, East Baton Rouge Parish 7.6%, Livingston Parish 5.5%, Orleans Parish 5.3%, and Tangipahoa Parish 5.1%. No other parish individually has over 5.0% of the policies in force as of March 31, 2017. On a direct basis, Maison writes in 115 of the 254 counties that comprise the State of Texas, however no single county represents over 5.0% of our total policies in force as of March 31, 2017. Revenue Recognition: Premium revenue is recognized on a pro rata basis over the term of the respective policy contract. Unearned premium reserves represent the portion of premium written that is applicable to the unexpired term of policies in force. Service charges on installment premiums are recognized as income upon receipt of related installment payments and are reflected in other income. Revenue from other policy fees is deferred and recognized over the terms of the respective policy period, with revenue reflected in other income. Any customer payment received is applied first to any service charge or policy fee due, with the remaining amount applied toward any premium due. Ceded premiums are charged to income over the applicable term of the various reinsurance contracts with third party reinsurers. Ceded unearned premiums represent the unexpired portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers and are reported as an asset on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Premiums collected in advance occur when the policyholder premium is paid in advance of the effective commencement period of the policy and are recorded as a liability on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Stock-Based Compensation: The Company has accounted for stock-based compensation under the provisions of ASC Topic 718 Stock Compensation which requires the use of the fair-value based method to determine compensation for all arrangements under which employees and others receive shares of stock or equity instruments (stock options and common stock purchase warrants). The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model using assumptions for expected volatility, expected dividends, expected term, and the risk-free interest rate. The fair value of each stock option award is recorded as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the period in which the stock options vest, with a corresponding increase to additional paid-in capital. 10 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company has also issued restricted stock units ("RSUs") to certain of its employees which have been accounted for as equity based awards since, upon vesting, they are required to be settled in the Company's common shares. The Company used a Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate the fair value of these awards upon grant date as the vesting of these RSUs occurs solely upon market-based conditions. The fair value of each RSU is recorded as compensation expense over the derived service period, as determined by the valuation model. Should the market-based condition be achieved prior to the expiration of the derived service period, any unrecognized cost will be recorded as compensation expense in the period in which the RSUs actually vest. Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The carrying values of certain financial instruments, including cash, short-term investments, premiums receivable and accounts payable approximate fair value due to their short-term nature. The Company measures the fair value of financial instruments in accordance with GAAP which defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset (or liability) in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. GAAP also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Earnings (loss) Per Common Share: Basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed using the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the respective period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive outstanding stock options, warrants or other convertible financial instruments. Potential common shares outstanding are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings (loss) per share if their effect is anti-dilutive. Operating Segments: The Company operates in a single segment property and casualty insurance. 3. Recently Issued Accounting Standards ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. Most significantly, ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of an investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income (loss). ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. ASU 2016-01 will be applied using a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Adoption of ASU 2016-01 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position, cash flows, or total comprehensive income, but could impact the Company's results of operations and earnings (loss) per share as changes in fair value will be presented in net income (loss) rather than other comprehensive income (loss). ASU 2016-02: Leases: In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02: Leases. ASU 2016-02 was issued to improve the financial reporting of leasing transactions. Under current guidance for lessees, leases are only included on the balance sheet if certain criteria, classifying the agreement as a capital lease, are met. This update will require the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability, discounted to present value, for all leases that extend beyond 12 months. For operating leases, the asset and liability will be expensed over the lease term on a straight-line basis, with all cash flows included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. For finance leases, interest on the lease liability will be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income while the repayment of the principal portion of the lease liability will be classified as a financing activity and the interest component will be included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, leases will be recognized and measured at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. The Company has reviewed its existing lessee obligations and has determined that ASU 2016-02 will apply should the Company renew its existing leases, or enter into any new lease agreements. 11 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) ASU 2016-09: Stock Compensation: In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09: Compensation Stock Compensation: Improvement to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 was issued to simplify the accounting for share-based payment awards. The guidance requires that all tax effects related to share-based payment be made through the statement of operations at the time of settlement as opposed to the current guidance that requires excess tax benefits to be recognized in additional paid-in-capital. ASU 2016-09 also removes the requirement to delay recognition of a tax benefit until it reduces current taxes payable. The change is required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative effect adjustment to opening accumulated deficit. Additionally, all tax related cash flows resulting from share-based payments are to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows, a departure from the current requirement which presents tax benefits as an inflow from financing activities and an outflow from operating activities. ASU 2016-09 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company does not believe the adoption of ASU 2016-09 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments Credit Losses: In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13 was issued to provide financial statement users with more useful information regarding the expected credit losses on financial instruments held as assets. Under current GAAP, financial statement recognition for credit losses on financial instruments was generally delayed until the loss was probable of occurring. The amendments of ASU 2016-13 eliminate this probable initial recognition threshold and instead reflect an entity's current estimate of all expected credit losses. The amendments also broaden the information that an entity must consider in developing its expected credit loss estimates for those assets measured at amortized cost by using forecasted information instead of the current methodology which only considered past events and current conditions. Under ASU 2016-13, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities will be measured in a manner similar to current GAAP, however, the amendments require that credit losses be presented as an allowance against the investment, rather than as a write-down. The amendments also allow the entity to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income, which is prohibited under current GAAP. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. 12 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 4. Investments A summary of the amortized cost, estimated fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses on the Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 is as follows. The table below summarizes the Company's fixed income securities at March 31, 2017 by contractual maturity periods. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. The following table highlights, by loss position and security type, those fixed income and equity securities in unrealized loss positions as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The tables segregate the holdings based on the period of time the investments have been continuously held in unrealized loss positions. There were 136 and 122 fixed income investments that were in unrealized loss positions as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. The Company held no equity securities in unrealized loss positions at either date. Under the terms of the certificate of authority granted to Maison by the Texas Department of Insurance, Maison is required to pledge securities totaling at least $2,000 with the State of Texas. Maison deposited the required securities with the State of Texas on May 13, 2015. These securities consist of various fixed income securities listed in the preceding tables which have an amortized cost basis of $2,002 and estimated fair value of $1,998 as of March 31, 2017. 13 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company's other investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $505 through March 31, 2017. One of these limited partnerships is managed by Argo Management Group, LLC, an entity which, as of April 21, 2016 is wholly owned by KFSI (see Note 12 Related Party Transactions). The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. Also included in other investments is a $300 certificate of deposit with an original term of 18 months deposited with the State of Florida pursuant to the terms of the certificate of authority issued to Maison from the FL OIR. Other-than-Temporary Impairment: The establishment of an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment requires a number of judgments and estimates. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of the individual investments to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. The analysis includes some or all of the following procedures as deemed appropriate by the Company: considering the extent, and length of time during which the market value has been below cost; identifying any circumstances which management believes may impact the recoverability of the unrealized loss positions; obtaining a valuation analysis from a third-party investment manager regarding the intrinsic value of these investments based upon their knowledge and experience combined with market-based valuation techniques; reviewing the historical trading volatility and trading range of the investment and certain other similar investments; assessing if declines in market value are other-than-temporary for debt instruments based upon the investment grade credit ratings from third-party credit rating agencies; assessing the timeliness and completeness of principal and interest payment due from the investee; and assessing the Company's ability and intent to hold these investments until the impairment may be recovered The risks and uncertainties inherent in the assessment methodology used to determine declines in market value that are other-than-temporary include, but may not be limited to, the following: the opinions of professional investment managers could be incorrect; the past trading patterns of investments may not reflect their future valuation trends; the credit ratings assigned by credit rating agencies may be incorrect due to unforeseen events or unknown facts related to the investee company's financial situation; and the historical debt service record of an investment may not be indicative of future performance and may not reflect a company's unknown underlying financial problems. The Company has reviewed currently available information regarding the investments it holds which have estimated fair values that are less than their carrying amounts and believes that these unrealized losses are primarily due to temporary market and sector-related factors rather than to issuer-specific factors. The Company does not intend to sell these investments in the short term, and it is not likely that it will be required to sell these investments before the recovery of their amortized cost. 14 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Accordingly, all of the Company's investments were in good standing and there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments on the Company's investments for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. The Company does not have any exposure to subprime mortgage-backed investments. Net investment income for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 5. Reinsurance The Company reinsures, or cedes, a portion of its written premiums on a per risk and excess of loss basis to non-affiliated insurers in order to limit its loss exposure. Although reinsurance is intended to reduce the Company's exposure risk, the ceding of insurance does not legally discharge the Company from its primary liability for the full amount of coverage under its policies. If our reinsurers fails to meet their obligations under the applicable reinsurance agreements, the Company would still be required to pay the insured for the loss. Under the Company's per-risk treaties, reinsurance recoveries are received for up to $1,750 in excess of a retention of $250 for each risk. The Company ceded $114 and $109 in written premiums under its per-risk treaties for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company's excess of loss treaties are based upon a treaty year beginning on June 1st of each year and expiring on May 31st of the following year. Thus, the financial statements for the three month periods ending March 31, 2017 and 2016 contain premiums ceded under two separate excess of loss treaties. Under the Company's 2015/2016 excess of loss treaty which expired on May 31, 2016, for each catastrophic event occurring within a 144-hour period, the Company receives reinsurance recoveries of up to $121,000 in excess of a retention of $4,000 per event. The Company had also procured a "top, drop and aggregate" layer of reinsurance protection that may be used for any event above $125,000, up to a maximum recovery of $15,000. This $15,000 second layer of coverage applied in total to all events occurring during the treaty year of June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016. On June 1, 2016 the Company entered into a new excess of loss treaty whereby for each catastrophic event occurring within a 144-hour period, the Company receives reinsurance recoveries of up to $170,000 in excess of a $5,000 retention per event. For any event above $175,000, the Company again purchased top, drop and aggregate coverage, with an additional limit of $25,000. The $25,000 aggregate coverage applies in total to all events occurring during the June 1, 2016 to May 31, 2017 treaty year. The Company ceded $5,762 and $3,462 in written premiums under its excess of loss treaties for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In June 2015, we began writing business through a quota-share agreement with Brotherhood Mutual Insurance Company ("Brotherhood"). Through this agreement, we act as a reinsurer, and have assumed wind/hail only exposures on certain churches and related structures Brotherhood insures throughout the State of Texas. Our quota-share percentage varies from 25%-100% of the wind/hail premium written by Brotherhood, dependent upon the geographic location (coastal areas versus non-coastal areas) within the State of Texas. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, we have written $429 in assumed premiums through our agreement with Brotherhood, compared to $398 in assumed premiums for the same period in 2016. On December 1, 2016 we participated TWIA's inaugural depopulation program whereby Maison assumed personal lines policies for wind and hail only exposures along the Gulf Coast area of Texas. The depopulation program was structured such that Maison reinsures TWIA under a 100% quota share agreement. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, we have written $419 in assumed premiums through the TWIA earned quota share agreement. 15 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The impact of reinsurance treaties on the Company's financial statements is as follows: 6. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other policy processing fees incurred which are related to successful efforts to acquire new or renewal insurance contracts. Acquisition costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which the related revenues are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred. DPAC as well as the related amortization expense associated with DPAC for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, is as follows: 7. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves The Company continually revises its estimates of the ultimate financial impact of claims made. A significant degree of judgment is required to determine amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements for the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense ("LAE") reserves. The process for establishing this provision reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in predicting future results of both known and unknown loss events. The process of establishing the provision for loss and LAE reserves relies on the judgment and opinions of a large number of individuals, including the opinions of the Company's independent actuaries. 16 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) The Company's evaluation of the adequacy of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves includes a re-estimation of the liability for loss and LAE reserves relating to each preceding financial year compared to the liability that was previously established. The results of this comparison and the changes in the provision, net of amounts recoverable from reinsurers, for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 8. Income Taxes Actual income tax expense (benefit) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 varies from the amount that would result by applying the applicable statutory federal income tax rate of 34% to income before income taxes as summarized in the following table: The Company carries a net deferred income tax asset of $268 and $420 at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, all of which the Company believes is more likely than not to be fully realized based upon management's assessment of future taxable income. Significant components of the Company's net deferred tax assets are as follows: As of March 31, 2017, the Company had no unrecognized tax benefits. The Company analyzed its tax positions in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes, and has determined that there are currently no uncertain tax positions. The Company generally recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). 17 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 9. Net Earnings (Loss) Per Share Net earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding during the periods presented. In calculating diluted earnings (loss) per share, those potential common shares that are found to be anti-dilutive are excluded from the calculation. The table below provides a summary of the numerators and denominators used in determining basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. The following potentially dilutive securities outstanding as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 have been excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as their effect would be anti-dilutive. 10. Options, Warrants, and Restricted Stock Units The Company has established an equity incentive plan for employees and directors of the Company (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to create incentives designed to motivate recipients to contribute toward the Company's growth and success, and also to attract and retain persons of outstanding competence, and provide such persons with an opportunity to acquire an equity interest in the Company. In April 2015, the Company's shareholders approved an amendment to the Plan to allow for the issuance of additional award types under the Plan. In addition to non-qualified stock options issuable under the Plan, the amendment provides for the issuance of restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance shares, performance cash awards, and other stock-based awards. The Plan provides for the issuance of 354,912 shares of common stock. As of March 31, 2017, both stock options and RSUs had been issued to the Company's employees under the Plan resulting in 156,956 shares available for future issuance under the Plan. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's stock options for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The following table summarizes the Company's stock options outstanding as of March 31, 2017. 18 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) On May 29, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors granted RSUs to certain of its executive officers under the Plan. Each RSU granted entitles the grantee to one share of the Company's common stock upon the vesting date of the RSU. The RSUs vest as follows: (i) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share and; (ii) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share. Prior to the vesting of the RSUs, the grantee will not be entitled to any dividends declared on the Company's common stock. The RSUs do not expire, however, should the grantee discontinue employment with the Company for any reason other than death or disability, all unvested RSUs will be deemed forfeited on the date employment is discontinued. The following table summarizes RSU activity for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Total stock based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was $7 and $10, respectively. As of March 31, 2017, total unrecognized stock compensation expense of $23 remained, which will be recognized through March 31, 2018. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's common stock warrants for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The following table summarizes the Company's warrants outstanding as of March 31, 2017. 11. Shareholders' Equity Treasury Shares On December 1, 2014, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to 500,000 shares of the Company's common stock which expired on December 31, 2016. Through December 31, 2016, the Company has repurchased an aggregate 401,359 shares at an aggregate purchase price of $2,927, or $7.29 per share, including all fees and commissions. On January 29, 2016, the Company retired 250,000 of its treasury shares, resulting in a reclassification of the purchase price of $1,917 to additional paid in capital. 12. Related Party Transactions Related party transactions are carried out in the normal course of operations and are measured in part by the amount of consideration paid or received as established and agreed by the parties. Management believes that consideration paid for such services in each case approximates fair value. Except where disclosed elsewhere in these consolidated financial statements, the following is a summary of related party transactions. Performance Share Grant Agreement On March 26, 2014, the Company entered into a Performance Share Grant Agreement ("PSGA") with KAI, whereby KAI will be entitled to receive up to an aggregate of 375,000 shares of PIH common stock upon achievement of certain milestones regarding the Company's stock price. Pursuant to the terms of the PSGA, if at any time the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds: (i) $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock; (ii) $15.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 125,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clause (i) herein); and (iii) $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 250,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) herein). The shares of common stock granted to KAI will have a valuation equal to the last sales price of PIH common stock on the day prior to such grant. As of March 31, 2017, the Company has not issued any shares under the PSGA. 19 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Termination of Management Services Agreement As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015. 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares") A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of fifteen dollars per share. The Warrant expires seven years from date of issuance. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds ten dollars per share for any twenty trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of twenty five dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On both February 24, 2017 and 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing annual dividend payments due on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to twenty five dollars per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Since the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption provision requiring redemption on February 24, 2020, the Company was required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on the balance sheet instead of recording the value of these shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the ultimate redemption amount of the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to operations during the period the Preferred Shares are outstanding using the effective interest method. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, amortization of the discount on the Preferred Shares totaled $92 and $88, respectively. Investment in Limited Liability Company On April 21, 2016, KFSI completed the acquisition of Argo Management Group LLC ("Argo"). Argo's primary business is to act as the Managing Member of Argo Holdings Fund I, LLC, an investment fund in which the Company has committed to invest $500, of which the Company has invested $145 as of March 31, 2017. The managing member of Argo, Mr. John T. Fitzgerald, was also appointed to KFSI's board of directors on April 21, 2016. 20 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The table below details the change in the balance of each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. 14. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is best evidenced by quoted bid or ask price, as appropriate, in an active market. Where bid or ask prices are not available, such as in an illiquid or inactive market, the closing price of the most recent transaction of that instrument subject to appropriate adjustments as required is used. Where quoted market prices are not available, the quoted prices of similar financial instruments or valuation models with observable market based inputs are used to estimate the fair value. These valuation models may use multiple observable market inputs, including observable interest rates, foreign exchange rates, index levels, credit spreads, equity prices, counterparty credit quality, corresponding market volatility levels and option volatilities. Minimal management judgment is required for fair values calculated using quoted market prices or observable market inputs for models. Greater subjectivity is required when making valuation adjustments for financial instruments in inactive markets or when using models where observable parameters do not exist. Also, the calculation of estimated fair value is based on market conditions at a specific point in time and may not be reflective of future fair values. For the Company's financial instruments carried at cost or amortized cost, the book value is not adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in fair value due to market fluctuations, including those due to interest rate changes, as it is the Company's intention to hold them until there is a recovery of fair value, which may be to maturity. The Company classifies its investments in fixed income and equity securities as available-for-sale and reports these investments at fair value. Fair values of fixed income securities for which no active market exists are derived from quoted market prices of similar instruments or other third-party evidence. The FASB has issued guidance that defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for and asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal, or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants. This guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires and entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The guidance categorizes assets and liabilities at fair value into one of three different levels depending on the observation of the inputs employed in the measurements, as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets providing the most reliable measurement of fair value since it is directly observable. Level 2 inputs to the valuation methodology which include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets. These inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly for substantially the full-term of the financial instrument. Level 3 inputs to the valuation methodology which are unobservable and significant to the measurement of fair value. 21 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Financial instruments measured at fair value as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 in accordance with this guidance are as follows. 15. Statutory Requirements The Company's insurance subsidiary, Maison prepares statutory basis financial statements in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the LDI. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include state laws, rules and regulations as well as accounting practices and rules as outlined in a variety of publications of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices that are not prescribed, but instead have been specifically requested by an insurer and allowed by the state in which the insurer is domiciled (in Maison's case, Louisiana). Permitted practices may differ from state to state, company to company within a state, and may change in the future. In converting from statutory accounting basis to U.S. GAAP, typical adjustments include the deferral of acquisition costs (which are all charged to operations as incurred on a statutory basis), the inclusion of statutorily non-admitted assets on the balance sheet, the inclusion of net unrealized holding gains or losses related to investments included on the balance sheet, as well as the inclusion of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the statement of operations. Statutory Surplus and Capital Requirements In order to retain its certificate of authority in the States of Louisiana and Florida, Maison is required to maintain a minimum capital surplus of $5,000 and $35,000, respectively. As of March 31, 2017, Maison's capital surplus was $35,915. The LDI employs risk-based capital ("RBC") reports to monitor Maison's financial condition. Risk-based capital is determined in accordance with a formula adopted by the NAIC which takes into consideration the covariance between asset risk, credit risk, underwriting risk, and other business risks. The RBC report determines whether Maison falls into the "no action" level or one of the four action levels set forth in the Louisiana Insurance Code. Furthermore, in order to retain its certificate of authority in the State of Texas, Maison is required to maintain an RBC ratio of 300% or more. As of March 31, 2017, Maison's RBC ratio was above 300%. States routinely require deposits of assets for the protection of policyholders. As of March 31, 2017, Maison held certificates of deposit with fair value of approximately $100 and $300 as a deposit with the LDI and FL OIR, respectively. Maison also held investment securities with a fair value of approximately $1,998 as a deposit with the TDI. 22 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except per share data) Surplus Notes PIH, as the parent company of Maison, is subject to the insurance holding company laws of the State of Louisiana, which, among other things, regulate the terms of surplus notes issued by insurers to their parent company. Maison's capital is comprised of five surplus notes issued to PIH for the total principal amount of $6,050, all of which have been approved by the LDI prior to their issuance. Notes accrue interest at 10% per annum. Interest payments on the notes are due annually, and are also subject to prior approval by the LDI. The Company's surplus notes, as of December 31, 2016, are as follows. Dividend Restrictions As a Louisiana domiciled insurer, the payment of dividends from our insurance subsidiary is restricted by the Louisiana Insurance Code. Dividends can only be paid if an insurer's paid-in capital and surplus exceed the minimum required by the Louisiana Insurance Code. Any dividend or distribution that when aggregated with any other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months exceeds the lesser of (a) ten percent of the insurer's surplus as regards policyholders as of the thirty-first day of December next preceding; or (b) the net income of the insurer, not including realized capital gains, for the twelve month period ending the thirty-first day of December next preceding; is considered to be extra-ordinary and shall not be paid until thirty days after the LDI has received notice of the declaration thereof and has not within that period disapproved the payment, or until the LDI has approved the payment within the thirty-day period. In determining whether a dividend or distribution is extra-ordinary, an insurer may carry forward net income from the previous two calendar years that has not already been paid out in dividends. Furthermore, pursuant to the consent order issued to Maison by the FL OIR, Maison is restricted from paying dividends which have not been approved in advance by the FL OIR. As of March 31, 2017, Maison had not paid any dividends to its sole shareholder, PIH. 16. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings: From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the Company's current reserves. In addition, the Company's estimate of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities, or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot be reasonably estimated, and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Company's results of operations in future periods. Operating Lease Commitments: As of March 31, 2017, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. 23 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on form 10-Q and in our Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2016 on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 16, 2017. Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our," refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Cautionary Note about Forward-Looking Statements This section of this quarterly report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions. We use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plan," "project," "continuing," "ongoing," "expect," "believe," "intend," "may," "will," "should," "could," and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements related to future events or future performance, but reflect management's current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events to differ materially from those anticipated, including the matters discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors on the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason. Overview Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, the Company changed its legal name from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. Prior to March 31, 2014, the Company operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America, Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services, Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, the Company completed an initial public offering of its common stock and then on June 13, 2014, the Company completed a follow-on offering. Through the combination of the IPO and follow-on offering, the Company issued approximately five million shares of its common stock. As of March 31, 2017, KAI and companies affiliated with KAI held approximately 975,000 shares of our common stock, equivalent to 16.4% of our outstanding shares. PIH has three wholly-owned subsidiaries; Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), a Louisiana-domiciled property and casualty insurance company, Maison Managers, Inc. ("MMI"), a managing general agent, incorporated in the State of Delaware on October 2, 2012, and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"), a Florida based claims adjusting company. Maison writes personal property and casualty insurance in Louisiana and both personal and commercial property and casualty insurance in Texas. Maison provides dwelling policies for wind and hail only, and dwelling, homeowner and mobile home/manufactured home policies for multi-peril property risks. Maison distributes its insurance policies through a network of independent agencies in Louisiana and Texas. These agencies typically represent several insurance companies in order to provide various insurance product lines to their clients. The Company refers to these policies as voluntary policies. In addition to the voluntary policies Maison writes, we have participated in the last five rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1st of each year as well as the inaugural depopulation of policies from the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA") which occurred on December 1, 2016. Under these programs, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by both Citizens and TWIA. 24 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data On March 1, 2017 Maison received a certificate of authority from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR") which authorizes Maison to write personal lines insurance in the State of Florida. Pursuant to the Consent Order issued, Maison has agreed to comply with certain requirements as outlined by the FL OIR until Maison can demonstrate three consecutive years of net income following the Company's admission into Florida as evidenced by its Annual Statement filed with the FL OIR via the National Association of Insurance Commissioners electronic filing system. Among other requirements, the FL OIR requires the following as conditions related to the issuance of Maison's certificate of authority: Although domiciled in the State of Louisiana, Maison agreed to comply with the Florida Insurance Code as if Maison were a domestic insurer within the State of Florida; Maison agreed to maintain capital and surplus as to policyholders of no less than $35,000; Maison agreed to receive prior approval from the FL OIR prior to the payment of any dividends and; Maison agreed to receive written approval from the FL OIR regarding any form of policy issued, or rate charged to its policyholders prior to utilizing any such form or rate for policies written in the State of Florida. To comply with the Consent Order, on March 31, 2017 Maison received a capital contribution from PIH in the amount of $16,000. As of March 31, 2017 Maison has not written any insurance policies covering risks in the State of Florida, nor does the Company anticipate writing a significant number of Florida policies in 2017. Our direct in-force policy counts as well as assumed policies as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts with independent agencies for policy sales and services, and contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of the Louisiana and Texas Departments of Insurance ("LDI" and "TDI", respectively) as well as the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR"). ClaimCor serves as the Company's claims and underwriting technical solutions company. Maison processing claims made by our policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. We have the ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agencies we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. The Company operates in in a single segment property and casualty insurance. Non U.S.-GAAP Financial Measures The Company assesses its results of operations using certain non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are defined below. The Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating performance in the same manner as management does. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, any financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company's non-U.S. GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how we define our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. 25 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Underwriting Ratios The Company, like many insurance companies, analyzes performance based on underwriting ratios such as loss ratio, expense ratio and combined ratio. The loss ratio is derived by dividing the amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is derived by dividing the sum of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and general and administrative expenses by net premiums earned. All items included in the loss and expense ratios are presented in the Company's U.S. GAAP financial statements. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. A combined ratio below 100% demonstrates underwriting profit whereas a combined ratio over 100% demonstrates an underwriting loss. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Estimates and their underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Changes in estimates are recorded in the accounting period in which they are determined. The critical accounting estimates and assumptions in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (as well as the reinsurance recoverable on those reserves), the valuation of fixed income and equity securities, the valuation of net deferred income taxes, the valuation of various securities we have issued in conjunction with the termination of the management services agreement with 1347 Advisors, LLC, and the valuation of deferred policy acquisition costs. Provision for Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves A significant degree of judgment is required to determine amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements for the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The process for establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in predicting future results of both known and unknown loss events. As such, the process is inherently complex and imprecise and estimates are constantly refined. The process of establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relies on the judgment and opinions of a large number of individuals, including the opinions of the Company's independent actuaries. Factors affecting the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves include the continually evolving and changing regulatory and legal environment, actuarial studies, professional experience and expertise of the Company's claims departments' personnel and independent adjusters retained to handle individual claims, the quality of the data used for projection purposes, existing claims management practices including claims handling and settlement practices, the effect of inflationary trends on future loss settlement costs, court decisions, economic conditions and public attitudes. In the actuarial review process, an analysis of the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves is completed for the Company's insurance subsidiary. Unpaid losses, allocated loss adjustment expenses and unallocated loss adjustment expenses are separately analyzed by line of business or coverage by accident year. A wide range of actuarial methods are utilized in order to appropriately measure ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense costs. These methods include paid loss development, incurred loss development and frequency-severity method. Reasonability tests such as ultimate loss ratio trends and ultimate allocated loss adjustment expense to ultimate loss are also performed prior to selection of the final provision. The provision is indicated by line of business or coverage and is separated into case reserves, reserves for losses incurred but not reported ("IBNR") and a provision for loss adjustment expenses ("LAE"). Because the establishment of the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, current provisions may need to be updated. Adjustments to the provision, both favorable and unfavorable, are reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for the periods in which such estimates are updated. Management determines the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves as recorded on the Company's financial statements, while the Company's independent actuaries develop a range of reasonable estimates and a point estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The actuarial point estimate is intended to represent the actuaries' best estimate and will not necessarily be at the mid-point of the high and low estimates of the range. 26 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Valuation of Fixed Income and Equity Securities The Company's fixed income and equity securities are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in inactive markets, quoted prices in active markets for similar instruments, benchmark interest rates, broker quotes and other relevant inputs. The Company does not have any fixed income or equity investments in its portfolio which require the Company to use unobservable inputs. Any change in the estimated fair value of its investments could impact the amount of unrealized gain or loss the Company has recorded, which could change the amount the Company has recorded for its investments and other comprehensive loss on its consolidated balance sheets and statements of comprehensive income (loss). Gains and losses realized on the disposition of investments are determined on the first-in first-out basis and credited or charged to the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Premium and discount on investments are amortized and accreted using the interest method and charged or credited to net investment income. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of its investment portfolio to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. Further information regarding its detailed analysis and factors considered in establishing an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment is discussed within Note 4 - Investments, to the consolidated financial statements. Valuation of Net Deferred Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is calculated based on the expected tax treatment of transactions recorded in the Company's consolidated financial statements. In determining its provision for income taxes, the Company interprets tax legislation in a variety of jurisdictions and makes assumptions about the expected timing of the reversal of deferred income tax assets and liabilities and the valuation of net deferred income taxes. The ultimate realization of the deferred income tax asset balance is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which the Company's temporary differences reverse and become deductible. A valuation allowance is established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset balance will not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is needed, management considers all available positive and negative evidence affecting specific deferred income tax asset balances, including the Company's past and anticipated future performance, the reversal of deferred income tax liabilities, and the availability of tax planning strategies. To the extent a valuation allowance is established in a period, an expense must be recorded within the income tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Securities issued to 1347 Advisors, LLC Pursuant to the termination of the Management Services Agreement with 1347 Advisors LLC ("Advisors," a wholly-owned subsidiary of KFSI), the Company issued Preferred Shares, Warrants, and entered into a Performance Share Grant Agreement with Advisors on February 24, 2015. Because the Preferred Shares have a redemption provision requiring mandatory redemption on February 24, 2020, the Company was required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on its balance sheet. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the $4,200 ultimate redemption amount which includes all dividends to be paid on the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the timing and amounts of cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). The Company estimated the fair value of the Warrants on grant date based upon the Black-Scholes option pricing model while it utilized a Monte Carlo model to determine the fair value of the Performance Share Grant Agreement due to the fact that the underlying shares are only issuable based upon the achievement of certain market conditions. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred policy acquisition costs represent the deferral of expenses that the Company incurs related to successful efforts to acquire new business or renew existing business. Acquisition costs, primarily commissions, premium taxes and underwriting and agency expenses related to issuing insurance policies are deferred and charged against income ratably over the terms of the related insurance policies. Management regularly reviews the categories of acquisition costs that are deferred and assesses the recoverability of this asset. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred, as opposed to being deferred and amortized as the premium is earned. 27 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the recent accounting pronouncements and their effect, if any, on the Company. Analysis of Financial Condition As of March 31, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 Investments The Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at estimated fair value. The Company held an investment portfolio comprised primarily of fixed income securities issued by the U.S. Government, government agencies and high quality corporate issuers. The portfolio is managed by a third-party investment management firm in accordance with the investment policies and guidelines approved by the Company's Board of Directors. These guidelines stress the preservation of capital, market liquidity and the diversification of risk. Investments held by the Company's insurance subsidiary must also comply with applicable domiciliary state regulations that prescribe the type, quality and concentration of investments. The table below summarizes, by type, the Company's investments as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Pursuant to the certificate of authority we received from the TDI, we are required to deposit securities with the State of Texas. These securities consist of fixed income securities listed in the table above having an amortized cost basis of $2,002 and an estimated fair value of $1,998 as of March 31, 2017. The Company's other investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $505 through March 31, 2017. One of these limited partnerships is managed by Argo Management Group, LLC, an entity which, as of April 21, 2016 is wholly owned by KFSI. The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. Also included in other investments is a $300 certificate of deposit with an original term of 18 months deposited with the State of Florida pursuant to the terms of the certificate of authority issued to Maison from the FL OIR. 28 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Liquidity and Cash Flow Risk The table below summarizes the fair value of the Company's fixed income securities by contractual maturity as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. The Company holds cash and high-grade short-term assets which, along with fixed income and equity securities, management believes are sufficient in amount for the payment of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and other operating subsidiary obligations on a timely basis. The Company may not be able to liquidate its investments in the event that additional cash is required to meet obligations to its policyholders, however, the Company believes that the high-quality, liquid investments in its portfolio provide it with sufficient liquidity. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in interest or currency exchange rates and equity prices. Given the Company's operations only invest in U.S. dollar denominated instruments and maintains a relatively insignificant investment in equity instruments, its primary market risk exposures in the investments portfolio are to changes in interest rates. Because the investments portfolio is comprised of primarily fixed maturity instruments that are usually held to maturity, periodic changes in interest rate levels generally impact the Company's financial results to the extent that the investments are recorded at market value and reinvestment yields are different than the original yields on maturing instruments. During periods of rising interest rates, the market values of the existing fixed income securities will generally decrease. The reverse is true during periods of declining interest rates. Credit Risk Credit risk is defined as the risk of financial loss due to failure of the other party to a financial instrument to discharge an obligation. Credit risk arises from the Company's positions in short-term investments, corporate debt instruments and government and government agency bonds. At March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company's debt securities had the following quality ratings as assigned by Standard and Poor's ("S&amp;P") or Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"). Other-Than-Temporary Impairment The length of time an individual investment may be held in an unrealized loss position may vary based on the opinion of the investment manager and their respective analyses related to valuation and to the various credit risks that may prevent the Company from recapturing the principal investment. In the case of an individual investment where the investment manager determines that there is little or no risk of default prior to maturity, the Company would elect to hold the investment in an unrealized loss position until the price recovers or the investment matures. In situations where facts emerge that might increase the risk associated with recapture of principal, the Company may elect to sell the investment at a loss. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of its investment portfolio to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. Further information regarding the Company's detailed analysis and factors considered in establishing an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment is discussed within Note 4 - "Investments," to the consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report. 29 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data As a result of the analysis performed by the Company, there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments related to investments for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. As of March 31, 2017, the gross unrealized losses for fixed income securities amounted to $235, and there were no unrealized losses attributable to non-investment grade fixed income securities or equity securities. At both March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, all unrealized losses on individual investments were considered temporary. Fixed income securities in unrealized loss positions continued to pay interest and were not subject to material changes in their respective debt ratings. The Company concluded the declines in value were considered temporary. As the Company has the capacity to hold these investments to maturity, no impairment provision was considered necessary. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs The Company's deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") include commissions, premium taxes, assessments and policy processing fees that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable and represent those costs related to acquiring the premiums the Company has yet to earn (the unearned premium reserve). DPAC increased $37, to $4,426 as of March 31, 2017 from $4,389 as of December 31, 2016. DPAC expressed as a percentage of unearned premium reserves was 17.6% as of March 31, 2017, compared to 17.0% as of December 31, 2016. This increase results from an increase in the effective rate on premium taxes we pay in Louisiana and Texas. Premiums Receivable, Net of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Premiums receivable, net of allowances for credit losses, decreased by $759 to $2,164 as of March 31, 2017 from $2,923 as of December 31, 2016. Due to our participation in the Citizens take-out program on December 1, 2016, we had a balance due from Citizens for approximately $800 as of December 31, 2016, most of which had been collected as of March 31, 2017. Ceded Unearned Premiums Ceded unearned premiums represents the unexpired portion of premiums which have been paid to the Company's reinsurers. Ceded unearned premiums are charged to income over the terms of the respective reinsurance treaties. Ceded unearned premiums increased $530 to $5,377 as of March 31, 2017 from $4,847 as of December 31, 2016 due predominantly to the amount and timing of installment payments due under our excess of loss catastrophe treaties. Reinsurance Recoverables Reinsurance recoverable on both paid losses and loss and LAE reserves represents amounts due to the Company, or expected to be due to the Company from its reinsurers, based upon claims paid as well as claims reserves which have exceeded the retention amount under our reinsurance treaties. As of March 31, 2017, we have recorded expected recoveries from our reinsurers of $1,136 on paid losses and $4,469 on loss and LAE reserves, resulting primarily from a series of severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes and flooding in the state of Louisiana in late February 2016, a wind and hail event occurring in both Texas and Louisiana in early March 2016, a wind and flooding event which occurred in Louisiana in mid-August 2016, and also a wind and hail event occurring in both Texas and Louisiana in early February 2017. See "Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves" in Item 2 of this report for further discussion on the Company's claims reserves and expected recoveries. Funds Deposited with Reinsured Companies Funds deposited with reinsured companies represents collateral we had placed on deposit with Brotherhood based upon our quota-share agreement to reinsure a portion of Brotherhood's business for wind/hail coverage only. Pursuant to the agreement, we were required to fund our pro-rata portion of reserves Brotherhood had established for losses and loss adjustments expenses, and any other amounts for which Brotherhood had not been able to take credit for on its annual statutory financial statements. As of December 31, 2016, we had funded this obligation via a deposit of $500 made to Brotherhood under a trust agreement. This collateral was returned to the Company in March 2017. Current Income Taxes Recoverable/Payable Current income taxes recoverable were $672 as of March 31, 2017 compared to $1,195 as of December 31, 2016 which represent the estimate of both the Company's state and federal income taxes to be recovered as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 respectively. 30 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Net Deferred Income Taxes Net deferred income taxes decreased $152 to $268 as of March 31, 2017 compared to $420 as of December 31, 2016. Net deferred income taxes are comprised of approximately $2,228 and $2,359 of deferred tax assets, net of approximately $1,960 and $1,939 of deferred tax liabilities as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. The change in the net deferred tax asset is primarily due to a decrease in our deferred tax asset associated with our unearned premium reserves. Property and Equipment Property and equipment was $244 and $250 as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, and consists of computers, office equipment, and improvements at our leased facilities in Tampa, Florida and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, shown net of accumulated depreciation. Also included in these balances are vehicles we have purchased for the use of our sales representatives in Texas and Louisiana. Our policy for the capitalization and depreciation of these assets can be found in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in Item 1 of this report. Other Assets Other assets decreased $56, to $732 as of March 31, 2017 from $788 as of December 31, 2016. The major components of other assets, and the change therein, are shown below. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred and but not reported ("IBNR") loss events, as well as the related estimated loss adjustment expenses ("LAE"). The table below separates our loss reserves and LAE between IBNR and case specific estimates as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and also shows the expected reinsurance recoverable on those reserves. (1) Homeowners refers to our multi-peril policies for traditional dwellings as well as mobile and manufactured homes. (2) Special property includes both our fire and allied lines of business, which are primarily wind/hail only products, and also includes the commercial lines wind/hail only business we have assumed through our agreement with Brotherhood and our personal lines wind/hail only business we have assumed through our quota-share agreement with TWIA. Gross reserves as of March 31, 2017 were $7,813, an increase of $842 from December 31, 2016. A significant portion of this increase relates to reserves established for a wind and hail event that occurred in both Louisiana and Texas in early February 2017 identified by Property Claims Services as CAT 1714. As of March 31, 2017, we anticipate our ultimate incurred gross losses for this storm to be approximately $1,800. Because of this event, we met the retention on our aggregate reinsurance treaty which runs from June 1, 2016 through May 31, 2017. This has allowed us not only to record a ceded recovery for CAT 1714, but also to record recoveries from other of our weather-related claims from the 3 rd and 4 th quarter of 2016 and the 1 st quarter of 2017. Due, in part, to these recoveries, the Company reported $329 of favorable development (redundancy) for the three months ended March 31, 2017. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company reported $167 in redundancy. See 'Net Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses" in Item 2 of this report for further information. 31 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data The Company cannot predict whether loss and loss adjustment expense reserves will develop favorably or unfavorably from the amounts reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Any such development could have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial results for a given period. Unearned Premium Reserves Unearned premium reserves decreased $683 to $25,138 as of March 31, 2017 compared to $25,821 as of December 31, 2016. The following table outlines the change in unearned premium reserves by line of business. Ceded Reinsurance Premiums Payable Ceded reinsurance premiums payable decreased $259 to $4,970 as of March 31, 2017 compared to $5,229 as of December 31, 2016. The bulk of the balance payable as of March 31, 2017 represents a quarterly payment due under our catastrophe reinsurance program, which was paid in April 2017. Agency Commissions Payable Agency commissions payable increased $172 to $669 as of March 31, 2017 versus $497 as of December 31, 2016. As agency commissions are paid in arrears, this balance represents commissions owed to the Company's independent agencies on policies written throughout the months ended March 31, 2017 and, December 31, 2016 respectively. Since the commissions we pay to our independent agencies are based upon a percentage of the premium our agencies write, the balance due will vary directly with the volume of premium written in the month. Premiums Collected in Advance Premium deposits were $1,916 and $1,128 and represent cash the Company has received for policies which were not yet in-force as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Upon the effective date of coverage, advance premiums are reclassified to the unearned premium reserve account. Funds held under Reinsurance Treaties Funds held under reinsurance treaties represents collateral we have received on deposit from our reinsurers under our catastrophe excess of loss treaties and is intended to fund those reinsurers pro-rata portion of reserves we have established for losses and loss adjustment expenses. As of December 31, 2016, we had received cash deposits of $73 from our reinsurers. This balance was reduced to $63 as of March 31, 2017 as a portion of the balance was applied to reinsurance recoveries due to us on paid losses during the quarter ended March 31, 2017. Accounts Payable and Other Accrued Expenses Accounts payable and other accrued expenses decreased $31, to $2,034 as of March 31, 2017 from $2,065 as of December 31, 2016. The major components of accrued expenses and other liabilities, as well as the change therein, are shown below. 32 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Related Party Transactions As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015. 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares") A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of fifteen dollars per share. The Warrant expires seven years from date of issuance. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds ten dollars per share for any twenty trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of twenty five dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On both February 24, 2017 and 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing annual dividend payments due on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to twenty five dollars per share outstanding plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Since the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption provision requiring redemption on February 24, 2020, the Company was required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on the balance sheet instead of recording the value of these shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the ultimate redemption amount of the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to operations during the period the Preferred Shares are outstanding using the effective interest method. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, amortization of the discount on the Preferred Shares totaled $92 and $88, respectively. Investment in Limited Liability Company On April 21, 2016, KFSI completed the acquisition of Argo Management Group LLC ("Argo"). Argo's primary business is to act as the Managing Member of Argo Holdings Fund I, LLC, an investment fund in which the Company has committed to invest $500, of which the Company has invested $145 as of March 31, 2017. The managing member of Argo, Mr. John T. Fitzgerald, was also appointed to KFSI's board of directors on April 21, 2016. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2017, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. 33 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Shareholders' Equity The primary drivers behind the changes to total shareholders' equity for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were the Company's net income as well as net unrealized gains on its investment portfolio as shown below. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Gross Premiums Written Gross premiums written increased $2,030 for the three months ended March 31, 2017, when compared to the same period in 2016. The following table shows our direct premiums written by line of business. Ceded Premiums Written Ceded premiums written increased to $5,876 for the three months ended March 31, 2017, compared to $3,571 for the same period 2016. The increase in ceded premiums written is primarily due to an increase in limits purchased under our catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance ("CAT XOL") program. As our treaty years run from June 1 st through May 31 st of each year, the three month period ending March 31, 2017 covers ceded premiums written under our 2016/2017 CAT XOL treaty, while the first quarter of 2016 covers ceded premiums written under our 2015/2016 CAT XOL treaty. The following table is a summary of the key provisions under each of our CAT XOL treaties. (1) Specifies the time period during which our losses from the same occurrence may be aggregated and applied to our retention and limits. We may pick the date and time when the period of consecutive hours begin in order to maximize our recovery. (2) Our 2016/2017 CAT XOL Treaty also includes a franchise deductible of $125 per occurrence for the claims we cede to our reinsurers under the aggregate portion of our treaty. The total cost of our CAT XOL coverage is estimated to be approximately $21,000 for the 2016/2017 treaty year and was $13,000 for the 2015/2016 treaty year. Net Premium Earned The following table shows our net premiums earned by line of business. 34 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Premium earned on a gross and ceded basis is as shown in the following table. Other Income Other income increased $114 to $377 for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, compared to $263 for the same period in 2016. Other income is comprised of policy fee income charged to our policyholders for inspections, premium financing fees for those policyholders which elect to pay their premiums on an installment basis, and also commission revenue resulting from a brokerage sharing agreement between our insurance subsidiary, Maison, and the intermediary Maison uses to place its CAT XOL reinsurance program. Net losses and loss adjustment expenses Net losses and LAE represent both actual payments made and changes in estimated future payments to be made to our policyholders. The following table sets forth the components of our losses and loss ratios for the periods presented. (1) We define Core Loss as net losses and LAE less the sum of catastrophe losses and prior period redundancy. (2) Property Claims Services (PCS) defines a catastrophic event as an event where the insurance industry is estimated to incur over $25,000 of insured property damage that also impacts a significant number of insureds. For purposes of the above table, we have defined a catastrophe as a PCS event where our estimated cost exceeds $1,500. (3) Prior period development is the amount of ultimate actual loss settlement value which is more than the estimated reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss, while redundancy represents the ultimate actual loss settlement value which is less than the estimated and determined reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss. Our net loss ratio (net losses and LAE divided by net premiums earned) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was 44.4%, compared to a net loss ratio of 80.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The primary drivers for the reduction in net loss ratio was a reduction in catastrophe losses and weather-related non-catastrophe losses when comparing periods. The first quarter 2016 was marked by severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes throughout Louisiana and Texas in February and March 2016. Our total gross incurred losses from these two separate events exceeded $1,500 each (PCS events 1616 and 1617). Our catastrophe reinsurance program was structured so that our retention was set at $4,000 for a single event. Our net incurred losses were slightly less than our retention, or approximately $3,979 through March 31, 2016, since we had recoveries under both our catastrophe and per-risk reinsurance treaties, accounting for over half of the March 2016 quarter's loss ratio. During the quarter ended March 31, 2017 we experienced one catastrophe event - PCS event 1714 which effected our policyholders in Louisiana during early February with hail, tornado and other wind damage. We anticipate our ultimate net losses from this storm to be approximately $1,697, as any further development on this storm will be covered by our aggregate treaty under our 2016/2017 CAT XOL reinsurance program. Since we met the retention under our aggregate treaty in the 1st quarter 2017, the treaty will also cover weather-related non-catastrophe losses which exceed our franchise deductible of $125 and have a date of loss between June 1, 2016 and May 31, 2017. This was the biggest driver in the redundancy of $329 we experienced in the current quarter, as well as the reduction in weather-related non-catastrophe loss ratio (from 20.1% in 2016 to 5.5% in 2017). Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs for the first quarter 2017 was $2,522 compared to $1,990 for the first quarter of 2016, and includes items such as commissions earned by our agencies, premium taxes, assessments, and policy processing fees. Expressed as a percentage of gross earned premiums, amortization was 18.7% in the current quarter, compared to 17.2% in the same quarter last year. The increase in amortization of deferred acquisition costs as a percentage of gross earned premiums can be attributed to an increase in the effective rate of the premium taxes we pay due to the loss of an investment credit received on our taxes in previous years. Effective January 1, 2017, the State of Louisiana amended this credit such that certain assets such as cash and money market funds held in the state of Louisiana would no longer qualify. 35 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $2,091 for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, compared to $1,578 for the quarter ended March 31, 2016. Expressed as a percentage of gross premium earned, general and administrative expenses were 15.5% and 13.6%, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expense was driven primarily by our increased staffing to support our growth in Texas and Florida as we have grown from 23 employees as of March 31, 2016 to 26 employees as of March 31, 2017. Also driving the increase in general and administrative expense is an increase in professional fees incurred when comparing quarters as we have initiated a review of the rates we charge on our risks in Louisiana. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax benefit (expense) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $135, on pretax income of $381 compared to a benefit of $578 on pretax losses of $1,693 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 resulting in an effective tax rate of 35.4% and 34.1%, respectively. Net (Loss) Income As a result of the foregoing, the Company's net income for the first quarter 2017 was $246, or $0.04 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $1,115, or $(0.18) per diluted share for the first quarter of 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources The purpose of liquidity management is to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet all financial commitments and obligations as they fall due. The liquidity requirements for the Company and its subsidiaries have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, and from the proceeds from the sales of our common and preferred stock. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for loss and LAE payments as well as other operating expenses. The timing and amount of payments for net losses and loss adjustment expenses may differ materially from the Company's provisions for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which may create increased liquidity requirements. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the Company's consolidated cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. Three months ended March 31, 2017 For the three months ended March 31, 2017, the net cash provided by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $1,069, driven, in large by our collection of approximately $8,247 in premiums for the quarter (net of the amounts we have ceded to our reinsurers), less the payment of approximately $4,298 in loss and LAE expenses (net of ceded recoveries collected from our reinsurers). We also paid approximately $1,473 in commissions to our agencies, as well as cash payments in the approximate amount of $1,407 for taxes, assessments and general and administrative expenses. The net cash used by investing activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $6,733, driven primarily by the net purchases of fixed income securities and short term investments for our investment portfolio. Net cash used by financing activities was $240, as a result of a dividend payment of $240 made to Advisors as holders of the Preferred Shares issued in the MSA termination transaction. As a result of the foregoing, cash and cash equivalents decreased from $43,045 as of December 31, 2016 to $37,141 as of March 31, 2017. 36 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except per share data Three months ended March 31, 2016 For the quarter ended March 31, 2016, the net cash used by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $773, driven, in large by our payment of approximately $4,700 in loss and loss adjustment expenses in the quarter, after reinsurance recoveries. The net cash used by investing activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $2,184, resulting from the net purchases of fixed income and equity securities for investment portfolio. Net cash used by financing activities was $426, which results from a dividend payment of $240 to Advisors as holders of the Preferred Shares issued in the MSA termination transaction, as well as the payment of $186 for the repurchase of 26,149 shares of our common stock pursuant to our share buyback program. As a result of the foregoing, our net decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the first quarter 2016 was $3,383. Regulatory Capital In the United States, a risk-based capital ("RBC") formula is used by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") to identify property and casualty insurance companies that may not be adequately capitalized. Most states, including Louisiana, the domiciliary state of our insurance subsidiary, Maison, as well as Texas, where Maison began writing business in June 2015, have adopted the NAIC RBC requirements. In general, insurers reporting surplus with respect to policyholders below 200% of the authorized control level, as defined by the NAIC, on December 31st of the previous year are subject to varying levels of regulatory action, which may include discontinuation of operations. As of March 31, 2017, Maison's reported surplus was considered to be in the "no action" level by the Louisiana Department of Insurance. Furthermore, pursuant to the consent order approving Maison's admission into the State of Texas, Maison has agreed to: Establish a deposit of $2,000 for the benefit of Texas policyholders. The Company has fulfilled this obligation by depositing fixed income securities, having an estimated fair value of $1,998 as of March 31, 2017, with the State of Texas. Maintain a Risk-Based-Capital ("RBC") ratio of 300% or more, and provide calculation of such ratio to the TDI on a periodic basis. Similarly, although Maison has not yet written any insurance policies in the State of Florida, pursuant to the consent order approving Maison's admission into the State of Florida, Maison has agreed to: Maintain a Risk-Based-Capital ("RBC") ratio of 300% or more. Maintain capital and surplus as to policyholders of $35,000. Restrict the payment of dividends to only those which have been approved in advance by the FL OIR As of March 31, 2017, Maison's RBC ratio exceeded 300% and Maison's capital surplus was $35,915.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 3 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (in thousands, except share and per share data) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 4 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 5 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 6 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 1. Nature of Business Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, its legal name was changed from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Prior to March 31, 2014, PIH was a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, PIH completed an initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock. On June 13, 2014, PIH completed a follow-on offering of its common stock to the public. Through the combination of the IPO and follow-on offering, PIH issued approximately five million shares of its common stock. As of June 30, 2017, KAI held approximately 975,000 shares of our common stock, which is equivalent to 16.4% of our outstanding shares. PIH has three wholly-owned subsidiaries; Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), a Louisiana-domiciled property and casualty insurance company, Maison Managers, Inc. ("MMI"), a managing general agent, incorporated in the State of Delaware, and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"), a Florida based claims solutions company. Maison processes claims made by its policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. MMI has ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agencies that we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. Maison began providing homeowners insurance, manufactured home insurance and dwelling fire insurance to individuals in Louisiana in December 2012. Maison writes both full peril property policies as well as wind/hail only exposures in Louisiana and distributes its policies through a network of independent insurance agencies. Maison began assuming wind/hail only insurance for commercial properties in Texas beginning in June 2015. In September 2015, Maison began writing manufactured home policies in the State of Texas on a direct basis, and in March 2016, Maison began writing homeowner policies in Texas. In addition to the voluntary policies that Maison writes, we have participated in the last five rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1st of each year, as well as the inaugural depopulation of policies from the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA"), which occurred on December 1, 2016. Under these programs, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by both Citizens and TWIA. The majority of policies that we have obtained through Citizens as well as all of the policies we have obtained through TWIA cover losses arising only from wind and hail. Prior to our takeout, both Citizens and TWIA policyholders were not able to obtain such coverage from any other marketplace. On March 1, 2017, Maison received a certificate of authority from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR") which authorizes Maison to write personal lines insurance in the State of Florida. Pursuant to the Consent Order issued, Maison has agreed to comply with certain requirements as outlined by the FL OIR until Maison can demonstrate three consecutive years of net income following the Company's admission into Florida as evidenced by its Annual Statement filed with the FL OIR via the National Association of Insurance Commissioners electronic filing system. Among other requirements, the FL OIR requires the following as conditions related to the issuance of Maison's certificate of authority: Although domiciled in the State of Louisiana, Maison has agreed to comply with the Florida Insurance Code as if Maison were a domestic insurer within the State of Florida; Maison has agreed to maintain capital and surplus as to policyholders of no less than $35,000; Maison has agreed to receive prior approval from the FL OIR prior to the payment of any dividends; and Maison has agreed to receive written approval from the FL OIR regarding any form of policy issued or rate charged to its policyholders prior to utilizing any such form or rate for policies written in the State of Florida. 7 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) To comply with the Consent Order, on March 31, 2017, Maison received a capital contribution from PIH in the amount of $16,000. As of June 30, 2017, Maison has not written any insurance policies covering risks in the State of Florida. MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary, known as a managing general agency, and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting, and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts primarily with independent agencies for policy sales and services, and also contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of the Louisiana Department of Insurance ("LDI"), Texas Department of Insurance ("TDI") and the FL OIR. 2. Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation: These statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Principles of Consolidation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. The Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements: The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Changes in estimates are recorded in the accounting period in which the change is determined. The critical accounting estimates and assumptions in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (as well as the associated reinsurance recoverable on those reserves), the valuation of fixed income and equity securities, the valuation of net deferred income taxes, the valuation of various securities that we have issued in conjunction with the termination of the management services agreement with 1347 Advisors, LLC, and the valuation of deferred policy acquisition costs. Investments: Investments in fixed income and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at estimated fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, until sold or an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized, at which point the cumulative unrealized gains or losses are transferred to the consolidated statement of operations. Other investments include investments in limited liability companies in which the Company's interests are deemed minor and, therefore, are accounted for under the cost method of accounting, which approximates their fair value. Also included in other investments is a fixed rate certificate of deposit with an original maturity of 15 months. Short-term investments, which consist of investments with maturities between three months and one year, are reported at cost, which approximates fair value due to their short-term nature. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are determined on a first-in, first-out basis, and are included in net investment income. Interest income is included in net investment income and is recorded as it accrues. The Company accounts for its investments using trade date accounting. The Company conducts a quarterly review to identify and evaluate investments that show objective indications of possible impairment. Impairment is charged to the statement of operations if the fair value of the instrument falls below its amortized cost and the decline is considered other-than-temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company's ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery. 8 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents include cash and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. Premiums Receivable: Premiums receivable include premium balances due and uncollected as well as installment premiums not yet due from our independent agencies and insureds. Premiums receivable are reported net of an estimated allowance for credit losses. Reinsurance: Reinsurance premiums, losses, and loss adjustment expenses are accounted for on a basis consistent with those used in accounting for the original policies issued and the terms of the reinsurance contracts. Premiums and losses ceded to other companies have been reported as a reduction of premium revenue and incurred net losses and loss adjustment expenses. A reinsurance recoverable is recorded for that portion of paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses that are ceded to other companies. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs: The Company defers commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other underwriting and agency expenses that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable. Costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which premiums are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred, as opposed to being deferred and amortized as the corresponding premium is earned. The method followed in determining the deferred policy acquisition costs limits the deferral to its realizable value by giving consideration to estimated future loss and loss adjustment expenses to be incurred as revenues are earned. Anticipated investment income is included in determining the realizable value of the deferred policy acquisition costs. Changes in estimates, if any, are recorded in the accounting period in which they are determined. Income Taxes: The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes, whereby deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for (i) the differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and (ii) loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the date of enactment. Future tax benefits are recognized to the extent that realization of such benefits is more likely than not and a valuation allowance is established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Current federal income taxes are charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is reported at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is recorded on a straight-line basis over estimated useful life which range from seven years for furniture, five years for vehicles, three years for computer equipment, and the shorter of estimated useful life or the term of the lease for leasehold improvements. Property and equipment is estimated to have no salvage value at its useful life-end. Rent expense for the Company's office leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Rent expense was $169 and $173 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 9 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves: Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred but not yet reported loss events and the related estimated loss adjustment expenses. The Company performs a continuing review of its loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including its reserving techniques as well as the impact of reinsurance on our loss reserves. The loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are also reviewed, at minimum, on an annual basis by qualified third party actuaries. Since the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves are based on estimates, the ultimate liability may be more or less than such reserves. The effects of changes in such estimated reserves are included in the results of income in the period in which the estimates are changed. Such changes in estimates could occur in a future period and may be material to the Company's results of operations and financial position in such period. Concentration of Credit Risk: Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk include investments, cash, premiums receivable, and amounts due from reinsurers on losses incurred. The Company maintains its cash with two major U.S. domestic banking institutions and two regional banks headquartered in the Southeastern United States. Such amounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") up to $250 per institution. At June 30, 2017, the Company held funds on deposit at these institutions in excess of these FDIC insured amounts. The terms of these deposits are on demand to mitigate some of the associated risk. The Company has not incurred losses related to these deposits. The Company has not experienced significant losses related to premiums receivable from its policyholders and management believes that amounts provided as an allowance for credit losses is adequate. The Company has not experienced any losses on amounts due from reinsurers. In order to limit the credit risk associated with amounts potentially due from reinsurers, the Company uses several different reinsurers, all of which have an A.M. Best Rating of A- (Excellent) or better. Absent such rating, the Company has required its reinsurers to place collateral on deposit with an independent institution under a trust agreement for the Company's benefit. The Company also has risk associated with the lack of geographic diversification due to the fact that Maison exclusively underwrites policies in Louisiana and Texas. The Company insures personal property located in 63 of the 64 parishes in the State of Louisiana. As of June 30, 2017, these policies are concentrated within these parishes, presented as a percentage of our total policies in force in all states, as follows: Saint Tammany Parish 13.7%, Jefferson Parish 12.2%, East Baton Rouge Parish 7.5%, and Livingston Parish 5.4%. No other parish individually has over 5.0% of the policies in force as of June 30, 2017. On a direct basis, Maison writes in 133 of the 254 counties that comprise the State of Texas; however, no single county represents over 5.0% of our total policies in force as of June 30, 2017. Revenue Recognition: Premium revenue is recognized on a pro rata basis over the term of the respective policy contract. Unearned premium reserves represent the portion of premium written that is applicable to the unexpired term of policies in force. Service charges on installment premiums are recognized as income upon receipt of related installment payments and are reflected in other income. Revenue from other policy fees is deferred and recognized over the terms of the respective policy period, with revenue reflected in other income. Any customer payment received is applied first to any service charge or policy fee due, with the remaining amount applied toward any premium due. Ceded premiums are charged to income over the applicable term of the various reinsurance contracts with third party reinsurers. Ceded unearned premiums represent the unexpired portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers and are reported as an asset on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Premiums collected in advance occur when the policyholder premium is paid in advance of the effective commencement period of the policy and are recorded as a liability on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. 10 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) Stock-Based Compensation: The Company has accounted for stock-based compensation under the provisions of ASC Topic 718 Stock Compensation, which requires the use of the fair-value based method to determine compensation for all arrangements under which employees and others receive shares of stock or equity instruments (stock options and common stock purchase warrants). The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model using assumptions for expected volatility, expected dividends, expected term, and the risk-free interest rate. The fair value of each stock option award is recorded as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the period in which the stock options vest, with a corresponding increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company has also issued restricted stock units ("RSUs") to certain of its employees which have been accounted for as equity based awards since, upon vesting, they are required to be settled in the Company's common shares. The Company used a Monte Carlo valuation model to estimate the fair value of these awards upon grant date as the vesting of these RSUs occurs solely upon market-based conditions. The fair value of each RSU is recorded as compensation expense over the derived service period, as determined by the valuation model. Should the market-based condition be achieved prior to the expiration of the derived service period, any unrecognized cost will be recorded as compensation expense in the period in which the RSUs actually vest. Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The carrying values of certain financial instruments, including cash, short-term investments, premiums receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to their short-term nature. The Company measures the fair value of financial instruments in accordance with GAAP, which defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset (or liability) in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. GAAP also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Earnings Per Common Share: Basic earnings per common share is computed using the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the respective period. Diluted earnings per common share assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive outstanding stock options, warrants or other convertible financial instruments. Potential common shares outstanding are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share if their effect is anti-dilutive. Operating Segments: The Company operates in a single segment property and casualty insurance. 3. Recently Issued Accounting Standards ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01: Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 amends various aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure for financial instruments. Most significantly, ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of an investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income (loss). ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. ASU 2016-01 will be applied using a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Adoption of ASU 2016-01 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position, cash flows, or total comprehensive income, but could impact the Company's results of operations and earnings per share as changes in fair value will be presented in net income rather than other comprehensive income. 11 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) ASU 2016-02: Leases: In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02: Leases. ASU 2016-02 was issued to improve the financial reporting of leasing transactions. Under current guidance for lessees, leases are only included on the balance sheet if certain criteria, classifying the agreement as a capital lease, are met. This update will require the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability, discounted to present value, for all leases that extend beyond 12 months. For operating leases, the asset and liability will be expensed over the lease term on a straight-line basis, with all cash flows included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. For finance leases, interest on the lease liability will be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income while the repayment of the principal portion of the lease liability will be classified as a financing activity and the interest component will be included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, leases will be recognized and measured at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. The Company has reviewed its existing lessee obligations and has determined that ASU 2016-02 will apply should the Company renew its existing leases, or enter into any new lease agreements. ASU 2016-09: Stock Compensation: In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09: Compensation Stock Compensation: Improvement to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 was issued to simplify the accounting for share-based payment awards. The guidance requires that all tax effects related to share-based payment be made through the statement of operations at the time of settlement as opposed to the current guidance that requires excess tax benefits to be recognized in additional paid-in-capital. ASU 2016-09 also removes the requirement to delay recognition of a tax benefit until it reduces current taxes payable. The change is required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative effect adjustment to opening accumulated deficit. Additionally, all tax related cash flows resulting from share-based payments are to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows, a departure from the current requirement which presents tax benefits as an inflow from financing activities and an outflow from operating activities. ASU 2016-09 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company does not believe the adoption of ASU 2016-09 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments Credit Losses: In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13: Financial Instruments Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13 was issued to provide financial statement users with more useful information regarding the expected credit losses on financial instruments held as assets. Under current GAAP, financial statement recognition for credit losses on financial instruments was generally delayed until the loss was probable of occurring. The amendments of ASU 2016-13 eliminate this probable initial recognition threshold and instead reflect an entity's current estimate of all expected credit losses. The amendments also broaden the information that an entity must consider in developing its expected credit loss estimates for those assets measured at amortized cost by using forecasted information instead of the current methodology which only considered past events and current conditions. Under ASU 2016-13, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities will be measured in a manner similar to current GAAP; however, the amendments require that credit losses be presented as an allowance against the investment, rather than as a write-down. The amendments also allow the entity to record reversals of credit losses in current period net income, which is prohibited under current GAAP. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. 12 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 4. Investments A summary of the amortized cost, estimated fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses on the Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 is as follows. The table below summarizes the Company's fixed income securities at June 30, 2017 by contractual maturity periods. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. The following table highlights, by loss position and security type, those fixed income and equity securities in unrealized loss positions as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The tables segregate the holdings based on the period of time the investments have been continuously held in unrealized loss positions. There were 141 and 122 fixed income investments that were in unrealized loss positions as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. The Company held 4 equity investments in unrealized loss positions as of June 30, 2017. 13 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) Under the terms of the certificate of authority granted to Maison by the Texas Department of Insurance, Maison is required to pledge securities totaling at least $2,000 with the State of Texas. Maison deposited the required securities with the State of Texas on May 13, 2015. These securities consist of various fixed income securities listed in the preceding tables which have an amortized cost basis of $2,001 and estimated fair value of $2,000 as of June 30, 2017. The Company's other investments are comprised of investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $645 through June 30, 2017. One of these limited partnerships is managed by Argo Management Group, LLC, an entity which, as of April 21, 2016 is wholly owned by KFSI (see Note 12 Related Party Transactions). The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. Also included in other investments is a $300 certificate of deposit with an original term of 18 months deposited with the State of Florida pursuant to the terms of the certificate of authority issued to Maison from the FL OIR. Other-than-Temporary Impairment: The establishment of an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment requires a number of judgments and estimates. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of the individual investments to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. The analysis includes some or all of the following procedures as deemed appropriate by the Company: considering the extent and length of time during which the market value has been below cost; identifying any circumstances which management believes may impact the recoverability of the unrealized loss positions; obtaining a valuation analysis from a third-party investment manager regarding the intrinsic value of these investments based upon their knowledge and experience combined with market-based valuation techniques; reviewing the historical trading volatility and trading range of the investment and certain other similar investments; assessing if declines in market value are other-than-temporary for debt instruments based upon the investment grade credit ratings from third-party credit rating agencies; assessing the timeliness and completeness of principal and interest payment due from the investee; and assessing the Company's ability and intent to hold these investments until the impairment may be recovered. The risks and uncertainties inherent in the assessment methodology used to determine declines in market value that are other-than-temporary include, but may not be limited to, the following: the opinions of professional investment managers could be incorrect; 14 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) the past trading patterns of investments may not reflect their future valuation trends; the credit ratings assigned by credit rating agencies may be incorrect due to unforeseen events or unknown facts related to the investee company's financial situation; and the historical debt service record of an investment may not be indicative of future performance and may not reflect a company's unknown underlying financial problems. The Company has reviewed currently available information regarding the investments it holds which have estimated fair values that are less than their carrying amounts and believes that these unrealized losses are primarily due to temporary market and sector-related factors rather than to issuer-specific factors. The Company does not intend to sell these investments in the short term, and it is not likely that it will be required to sell these investments before the recovery of their amortized cost. Accordingly, all of the Company's investments were in good standing and there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments on the Company's investments for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. The Company does not have any exposure to subprime mortgage-backed investments. Net investment income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 5. Reinsurance The Company reinsures, or cedes, a portion of its written premiums on a per risk and excess of loss basis to non-affiliated insurers in order to limit its loss exposure. Although reinsurance is intended to reduce the Company's exposure risk, the ceding of insurance does not legally discharge the Company from its primary liability for the full amount of coverage under its policies. If our reinsurers fail to meet their obligations under the applicable reinsurance agreements, the Company would still be required to pay the insured for the loss. Under the Company's per-risk treaty, reinsurance recoveries are received for up to $1,750 in excess of a retention of $250 for each loss occurring prior to June 1, 2017. Effective June 1, 2017, the Company amended its per-risk treaty such that recoveries are received for up to $1,600 in excess of a retention of $400 for each loss occurring on June 1, 2017 or thereafter. The Company has ceded $404 and $222 in written premiums under its per-risk treaties for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company's excess of loss treaties are based upon a treaty year beginning on June 1 st of each year and expiring on May 31 st of the following year. Thus, the financial statements for the six month periods ending June 30, 2017 and 2016 contain premiums ceded under three separate excess of loss treaties. Under the Company's 2015/2016 excess of loss treaty which expired on May 31, 2016, for each catastrophic event occurring within a 144-hour period, the Company receives reinsurance recoveries of up to $121,000 in excess of a retention of $4,000 per event. The Company had also procured a "top, drop and aggregate" layer of reinsurance protection that may be used for any event above $125,000, up to a maximum recovery of $15,000. This $15,000 second layer of coverage applied in total to all events occurring during the treaty year of June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016. For both the treaty years beginning June 1, 2016 and June 1, 2017, the Company's excess of loss treaties cover losses of up to $170,000 in excess of a $5,000 retention per event. For any event above $175,000, the Company again purchased top, drop and aggregate coverage, with an additional limit of $25,000. The $25,000 aggregate coverage applies in total to all events occurring during each of the treaty years. The Company ceded $9,971 and $9,219 in written premiums under its excess of loss treaties for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 15 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) In June 2015, we began writing business through a quota-share agreement with Brotherhood Mutual Insurance Company ("Brotherhood"). Through this agreement, we act as a reinsurer, and have assumed wind/hail only exposures on certain churches and related structures that Brotherhood insures throughout the State of Texas. Our quota-share percentage varies from 25%-100% of the wind/hail premium written by Brotherhood, dependent upon the geographic location (coastal areas versus non-coastal areas) within the State of Texas. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, we have written $896 in assumed premiums through our agreement with Brotherhood, compared to $858 in assumed premiums for the same period in 2016. On December 1, 2016, we participated TWIA's inaugural depopulation program whereby Maison assumed personal lines policies for wind and hail only exposures along the Gulf Coast area of Texas. The depopulation program was structured such that Maison reinsures TWIA under a 100% quota share agreement. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, we have written $1,302 in assumed premiums through the TWIA quota share agreement. The impact of reinsurance treaties on the Company's financial statements is as follows: 6. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, assessments and other policy processing fees incurred which are related to successful efforts to acquire new or renewal insurance contracts. Acquisition costs deferred on insurance products are amortized over the period in which the related revenues are earned. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred. DPAC as well as the related amortization expense associated with DPAC for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, is as follows: 7. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves The Company continually revises its estimates of the ultimate financial impact of claims made. A significant degree of judgment is required to determine amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements for the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense ("LAE") reserves. The process for establishing this provision reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in predicting future results of both known and unknown loss events. The process of establishing the provision for loss and LAE reserves relies on the judgment and opinions of a large number of individuals, including the opinions of the Company's independent actuaries. 16 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) The Company's evaluation of the adequacy of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves includes a re-estimation of the liability for loss and LAE reserves relating to each preceding financial year compared to the liability that was previously established. The results of this comparison and the changes in the provision, net of amounts recoverable from reinsurers, for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 8. Income Taxes Actual income tax expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 varies from the amount that would result by applying the applicable statutory federal income tax rate of 34% to income before income taxes as summarized in the following table: The Company carries a net deferred income tax asset of $247 and $420 at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, all of which the Company believes is more likely than not to be fully realized based upon management's assessment of future taxable income. Significant components of the Company's net deferred tax assets are as follows: As of June 30, 2017, the Company had no unrecognized tax benefits. The Company analyzed its tax positions in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, Income Taxes, and has determined that there are currently no uncertain tax positions. The Company generally recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense (benefit). 17 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 9. Net Earnings Per Share Net earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding during the periods presented. In calculating diluted earnings per share, those potential common shares that are found to be anti-dilutive are excluded from the calculation. The table below provides a summary of the numerators and denominators used in determining basic and diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. The following potentially dilutive securities outstanding as of June 30, 2017 and 2016 have been excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding as their effect would be anti-dilutive. 10. Options, Warrants, and Restricted Stock Units The Company has established an equity incentive plan for employees and directors of the Company (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to create incentives designed to motivate recipients to contribute toward the Company's growth and success, and also to attract and retain persons of outstanding competence, and provide such persons with an opportunity to acquire an equity interest in the Company. The types of awards available for issuance under the Plan include non-qualified stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance shares, performance cash awards, and other stock-based awards. The Plan provides for the issuance of 354,912 shares of common stock. As of June 30, 2017, both stock options and RSUs had been issued to the Company's employees under the Plan resulting in 156,956 shares available for future issuance under the Plan. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's stock options for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The following table summarizes the Company's stock options outstanding as of June 30, 2017. On May 29, 2015, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors granted RSUs to certain of its executive officers under the Plan. Each RSU granted entitles the grantee to one share of the Company's common stock upon the vesting date of the RSU. The RSUs vest as follows: (i) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share; and (ii) 50% upon the date that the closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share. Prior to the vesting of the RSUs, the grantee will not be entitled to any dividends declared on the Company's common stock. The RSUs do not expire; however, should the grantee discontinue employment with the Company for any reason other than death or disability, all unvested RSUs will be deemed forfeited on the date employment is discontinued. 18 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) On May 23, 2017, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the potential issuance of RSUs to the Company's Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Case. Mr. Case will be awarded two matching RSUs for each share of the Company's common stock that he purchases on the open market or directly from the Company during the period beginning May 23, 2017 and ending November 23, 2017, up to a maximum of 136,054 RSUs. Each RSU will entitle Mr. Case to one share of the Company's common stock upon the vesting date of the RSU, which shall vest 20% per year over a period of five years following the date granted, subject to Mr. Case's continued employment with the Company. Mr. Case will also be required to maintain ownership of the shares purchased through the full five-year vesting period. The RSUs will be issued to Mr. Case outside of the Plan as an inducement grant material to Mr. Case entering into employment with the Company. On May 31, 2017, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the potential issuance of additional RSUs to the Company's Officers and Directors under the Plan. The number of RSUs to be granted will be based upon the number of shares of the Company's common stock that each participating Officer and Director purchases in open market transactions, independently, and without assistance from the Company, during the period beginning May 31, 2017 and ending November 30, 2017 (the "Purchase Period"). At the end of the Purchase Period, the Company will issue to each participating Officer and Director a total of two RSUs for each share of the Company's common stock purchased during the Purchase Period, subject to a maximum of 40,000 RSUs for the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Raucy, 40,000 RSUs for the Company's Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Hill, 20,000 RSUs for the Company's Chief Underwriting Officer, Mr. Stroud, and 6,666 RSUs for each of the Company's non-employee Directors. Each RSU will entitle the grantee to one share of the Company's common stock upon the vesting date of the RSU, which shall vest 20% per year over a period of five years following the date granted, subject to each Officer's continued employment with the Company and each Director's continued service on the Board, provided that if a Director makes himself available and consents to be nominated by the Company for continued service but is not nominated by the Board for election by the shareholders, other than for good reason as determined by the Board in its discretion, then such director's RSUs shall vest in full as of his last date of service as a director with the Company. Participating Officers and Directors will be required to maintain ownership of the shares purchased through the full five-year vesting period. Pursuant to the arrangement, a maximum number of 139,996 RSUs may be granted to the Company's Officers and Directors at the end of the Purchase Period under the Plan. The following table summarizes RSU activity for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Total stock based compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was $13 and $20, respectively. As of June 30, 2017, total unrecognized stock compensation expense of $17 remained, which will be recognized through March 31, 2018. There were no grants, exercises, or cancellations of the Company's common stock warrants for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The following table summarizes the Company's warrants outstanding as of June 30, 2017. 19 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 11. Shareholders' Equity Treasury Shares On December 1, 2014, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to 500,000 shares of the Company's common stock, which expired on December 31, 2016. Through December 31, 2016, the Company has repurchased an aggregate 401,359 shares at an aggregate purchase price of $2,927, or $7.29 per share, including all fees and commissions. On January 29, 2016, the Company retired 250,000 of its treasury shares, resulting in a reclassification of the purchase price of $1,917 to additional paid in capital. 12. Related Party Transactions Related party transactions are carried out in the normal course of operations and are measured in part by the amount of consideration paid or received as established and agreed by the parties. Management believes that consideration paid for such services in each case approximates fair value. Except where disclosed elsewhere in these consolidated financial statements, the following is a summary of related party transactions. Performance Share Grant Agreement On March 26, 2014, the Company entered into a Performance Share Grant Agreement ("PSGA") with KAI, whereby KAI will be entitled to receive up to an aggregate of 375,000 shares of PIH common stock upon achievement of certain milestones regarding the Company's stock price. Pursuant to the terms of the PSGA, if at any time the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds: (i) $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock; (ii) $15.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 125,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clause (i) herein); and (iii) $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period, KAI will receive 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock (in addition to the 250,000 shares of common stock earned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) herein). The shares of common stock granted to KAI will have a valuation equal to the last sales price of PIH common stock on the day prior to such grant. As of June 30, 2017, the Company has not issued any shares under the PSGA. Termination of Management Services Agreement As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI: 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable pursuant to the Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015, and subject to the achievement of the Milestone Event; 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares"); and A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $15.00 per share. The Warrant expires on February 24, 2022. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of $25.00 and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On both February 24, 2017 and 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing annual dividend payments due on the Preferred Shares. 20 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to $25.00 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Since the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption provision requiring redemption on February 24, 2020, the Company was required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on the balance sheet instead of recording the value of these shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the ultimate redemption amount of the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to operations during the period the Preferred Shares are outstanding using the effective interest method. For the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, amortization of the discount on the Preferred Shares totaled $183 and $174, respectively. Investment in Limited Liability Company On April 21, 2016, KFSI completed the acquisition of Argo Management Group LLC ("Argo"). Argo's primary business is to act as the Managing Member of Argo Holdings Fund I, LLC, an investment fund in which the Company has committed to invest $500, of which the Company has invested $211 as of June 30, 2017. The managing member of Argo, Mr. John T. Fitzgerald, was also appointed to KFSI's board of directors on April 21, 2016. 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The table below details the change in the balance of each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. 14. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is best evidenced by quoted bid or ask price, as appropriate, in an active market. Where bid or ask prices are not available, such as in an illiquid or inactive market, the closing price of the most recent transaction of that instrument subject to appropriate adjustments as required is used. Where quoted market prices are not available, the quoted prices of similar financial instruments or valuation models with observable market based inputs are used to estimate the fair value. These valuation models may use multiple observable market inputs, including observable interest rates, foreign exchange rates, index levels, credit spreads, equity prices, counterparty credit quality, corresponding market volatility levels and option volatilities. Minimal management judgment is required for fair values calculated using quoted market prices or observable market inputs for models. Greater subjectivity is required when making valuation adjustments for financial instruments in inactive markets or when using models where observable parameters do not exist. Also, the calculation of estimated fair value is based on market conditions at a specific point in time and may not be reflective of future fair values. For the Company's financial instruments carried at cost or amortized cost, the book value is not adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in fair value due to market fluctuations, including those due to interest rate changes, as it is the Company's intention to hold them until there is a recovery of fair value, which may be to maturity. 21 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) The Company classifies its investments in fixed income and equity securities as available-for-sale and reports these investments at fair value. Fair values of fixed income securities for which no active market exists are derived from quoted market prices of similar instruments or other third-party evidence. The FASB has issued guidance that defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for and asset (or paid to transfer a liability) in the principal, or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants. This guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires and entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The guidance categorizes assets and liabilities at fair value into one of three different levels depending on the observation of the inputs employed in the measurements, as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets providing the most reliable measurement of fair value since it is directly observable. Level 2 inputs to the valuation methodology which include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets. These inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full-term of the financial instrument. Level 3 inputs to the valuation methodology which are unobservable and significant to the measurement of fair value. Financial instruments measured at fair value as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 in accordance with this guidance are as follows. 22 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 15. Statutory Requirements The Company's insurance subsidiary, Maison, prepares statutory basis financial statements in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the LDI. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include state laws, rules and regulations as well as accounting practices and rules as outlined in a variety of publications of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"). Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices that are not prescribed, but instead have been specifically requested by an insurer and allowed by the state in which the insurer is domiciled (in Maison's case, Louisiana). Permitted practices may differ from state to state, company to company within a state, and may change in the future. In converting from statutory accounting basis to U.S. GAAP, typical adjustments include the deferral of acquisition costs (which are all charged to operations as incurred on a statutory basis), the inclusion of statutorily non-admitted assets on the balance sheet, the inclusion of net unrealized holding gains or losses related to investments included on the balance sheet, as well as the inclusion of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the statement of operations. Statutory Surplus and Capital Requirements In order to retain its certificate of authority in the States of Louisiana and Florida, Maison is required to maintain a minimum capital surplus of $5,000 and $35,000, respectively. As of June 30, 2017, Maison's capital surplus was $36,472. The LDI employs risk-based capital ("RBC") reports to monitor Maison's financial condition. Risk-based capital is determined in accordance with a formula adopted by the NAIC which takes into consideration the covariance between asset risk, credit risk, underwriting risk, and other business risks. The RBC report determines whether Maison falls into the "no action" level or one of the four action levels set forth in the Louisiana Insurance Code. Furthermore, in order to retain its certificate of authority in the State of Texas, Maison is required to maintain an RBC ratio of 300% or more. As of June 30, 2017, Maison's RBC ratio was above 300%. States routinely require deposits of assets for the protection of policyholders. As of June 30, 2017, Maison held certificates of deposit with an estimated fair value of approximately $100 and $300 as a deposit with the LDI and FL OIR, respectively. Maison also held investment securities with an estimated fair value of approximately $2,000 as a deposit with the TDI. Surplus Notes PIH, as the parent company of Maison, is subject to the insurance holding company laws of the State of Louisiana, which, among other things, regulate the terms of surplus notes issued by insurers to their parent company. Maison's capital is comprised of five surplus notes issued to PIH for the total principal amount of $6,050, all of which have been approved by the LDI prior to their issuance. Notes accrue interest at 10% per annum. Interest payments on the notes are due annually, and are also subject to prior approval by the LDI. The Company's surplus notes, as of June 30, 2017, are as follows. Dividend Restrictions As a Louisiana domiciled insurer, the payment of dividends from our insurance subsidiary is restricted by the Louisiana Insurance Code. Dividends can only be paid if an insurer's paid-in capital and surplus exceed the minimum required by the Louisiana Insurance Code. Any dividend or distribution that when aggregated with any other dividends or distributions made within the preceding twelve months exceeds the lesser of (a) ten percent of the insurer's surplus as regards policyholders as of the thirty-first day of December next preceding;or (b) the net income of the insurer, not including realized capital gains, for the twelve month period ending the thirty-first day of December next preceding; is considered to be extra-ordinary and shall not be paid until thirty days after the LDI has received notice of the declaration thereof and has not within that period disapproved the payment, or until the LDI has approved the payment within the thirty-day period. In determining whether a dividend or distribution is extra-ordinary, an insurer may carry forward net income from the previous two calendar years that has not already been paid out in dividends. 23 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ($ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) Furthermore, pursuant to the consent order issued to Maison by the FL OIR, Maison is restricted from paying dividends which have not been approved in advance by the FL OIR. As of June 30, 2017, Maison had not paid any dividends to its sole shareholder, PIH. 16. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings: From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Currently, it is not possible to predict legal outcomes and their impact on the future development of claims. Any such development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations. Because of these uncertainties, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the Company's current reserves. In addition, the Company's estimate of ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities, or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot be reasonably estimated, and could result in income statement charges that could be material to the Company's results of operations in future periods. Operating Lease Commitments: As of June 30, 2017, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. 24 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 16, 2017. Unless context denotes otherwise, the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc., and its subsidiaries. Cautionary Note about Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We use words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "plan," "project," "continuing," "ongoing," "expect," "believe," "intend," "may," "will," "should," "could," and other similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect management's current beliefs, based on information currently available. Although we believe that the plans, objectives, expectations, and prospects reflected in or suggested by our forward-looking statements are reasonable, those statements involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements express or implied by these forward-looking statements, and we can give no assurance that our plans, objectives, expectations, and prospects will be achieved. Important factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements are contained in Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere on the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 and in our subsequent filings with the SEC, and include, among others, the following: (i) our limited operating history and status as an emerging growth company; (ii) lack of future opportunities to participate in take-out programs; (iii) the level of demand for our coverage and the incidence of catastrophic events related to such coverage, including the impact of climate change and our lack of geographic diversification; (iv) our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and expand our operations, including through acquisitions and development of new products; (v) changes in general economic, business, and industry conditions, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry; (vi) our ability to grow and remain profitable in the competitive insurance industry, including our lack of a rating from A.M. Best; (vii) legal, regulatory, and tax developments, including the effects of emerging claim and coverage issues and increased litigation against the insurance industry; (viii) legal actions brought against us; (ix) damage to our reputation; (x) adequacy of our insurance reserves; (xi) availability of reinsurance and ability of reinsurers to pay their obligations; (xii) the failure of our risk mitigation strategies or loss limitation methods; (xiii) our reliance on independent agents to write our insurance and other third parties; (xiv) our ability to maintain our public company status, exchange listing and effective internal control systems; (xv) potential conflicts of interest due to our affiliation with KFSI; (xvi) data security breaches and other factors affecting our information technology systems; (xvii) our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, independent agents and brokers; (xviii) our ability to meet our obligations or obtain additional capital on favorable terms, or at all; (xix) our ability to accurately price the risks that we underwrite; and (xx) restrictions on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason. Overview Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. was incorporated on October 2, 2012 in the State of Delaware. On November 19, 2013, the Company changed its legal name from Maison Insurance Holdings, Inc. to 1347 Property Insurance Holdings, Inc. ("PIH"). PIH is a holding company and is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the property and casualty insurance business. Prior to March 31, 2014, the Company operated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway America, Inc. ("KAI"). KAI, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingsway Financial Services, Inc. ("KFSI"), a publicly owned holding company based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On March 31, 2014, the Company completed an initial public offering of its common stock and then on June 13, 2014, the Company completed a follow-on offering. Through the combination of the IPO and follow-on offering, the Company issued approximately five million shares of its common stock. As of June 30, 2017, KAI and companies affiliated with KAI held approximately 975,000 shares of our common stock, equivalent to 16.4% of our outstanding shares. 25 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data PIH has three wholly-owned subsidiaries; Maison Insurance Company ("Maison"), a Louisiana-domiciled property and casualty insurance company, Maison Managers, Inc. ("MMI"), a managing general agent, incorporated in the State of Delaware on October2, 2012, and ClaimCor, LLC ("ClaimCor"), a Florida based claims solutions company. Maison writes personal property and casualty insurance in Louisiana and both personal and commercial property and casualty insurance in Texas. Maison provides dwelling policies for wind and hail only, and dwelling, homeowner and mobile home/manufactured home policies for multi-peril property risks. Maison distributes its insurance policies through a network of independent agencies in Louisiana and Texas. These agencies typically represent several insurance companies in order to provide various insurance product lines to their clients. The Company refers to these policies as voluntary policies. In addition to the voluntary policies that Maison writes, we have participated in the last five rounds of take-outs from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Company ("Citizens"), occurring on December 1st of each year, as well as the inaugural depopulation of policies from the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA"), which occurred on December 1, 2016. Under these programs, state-approved insurance companies, such as Maison, have the opportunity to assume insurance policies written by both Citizens and TWIA. The majority of policies that we have obtained through Citizens as well as all of the policies we have obtained through TWIA cover losses arising only from wind and hail. Prior to our takeout, both Citizens and TWIA policyholders were not able to obtain such coverage from any other marketplace. On March 1, 2017, Maison received a certificate of authority from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR") which authorizes Maison to write personal lines insurance in the State of Florida. Pursuant to the Consent Order issued, Maison has agreed to comply with certain requirements as outlined by the FL OIR until Maison can demonstrate three consecutive years of net income following the Company's admission into Florida as evidenced by its Annual Statement filed with the FL OIR via the National Association of Insurance Commissioners electronic filing system. Among other requirements, the FL OIR requires the following as conditions related to the issuance of Maison's certificate of authority: Although domiciled in the State of Louisiana, Maison has agreed to comply with the Florida Insurance Code as if Maison were a domestic insurer within the State of Florida; Maison has agreed to maintain capital and surplus as to policyholders of no less than $35,000; Maison has agreed to receive prior approval from the FL OIR prior to the payment of any dividends; and Maison has agreed to receive written approval from the FL OIR regarding any form of policy issued or rate charged to its policyholders prior to utilizing any such form or rate for policies written in the State of Florida. To comply with the Consent Order, on March 31, 2017, Maison received a capital contribution from PIH in the amount of $16,000. As of June 30, 2017, Maison has not written any insurance policies covering risks in the State of Florida, nor does the Company anticipate writing a significant number of Florida policies in 2017. Our direct in-force policy counts as well as assumed policies as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were as follows: 1) The decrease in policies assumed through the TWIA quota share agreement from December 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017 is attributable to the fact that policyholders have a six month period (until May 31, 2017) to opt-out of the assumption process. Upon opt-out, policies are removed from the Company's listing of assumed policies back to the original date of takeout, December 1, 2016 (as if the Company had never assumed the policy). 26 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data MMI serves as the Company's management services subsidiary and provides underwriting, policy administration, claims administration, marketing, accounting and other management services to Maison. MMI contracts with independent agencies for policy sales and services, and contracts with an independent third-party for policy administration services. As a managing general agency, MMI is licensed by and subject to the regulatory oversight of the Louisiana and Texas Departments of Insurance ("LDI" and "TDI", respectively) as well as the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR"). ClaimCor serves as the Company's claims and underwriting technical solutions company. Maison processes claims made by our policyholders through ClaimCor, and also through various third-party claims adjusting companies. We have the ultimate authority over the claims handling process, while the agencies that we appoint have no authority to settle our claims or otherwise exercise control over the claims process. The Company operates in in a single segment property and casualty insurance. Non U.S.-GAAP Financial Measures The Company assesses its results of operations using certain non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are defined below. The Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating performance in the same manner as management does. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, any financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company's non-U.S. GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how we define our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. Underwriting Ratios The Company, like many insurance companies, analyzes performance based on underwriting ratios such as loss ratio, expense ratio and combined ratio. The loss ratio is derived by dividing the amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses by net premiums earned. The expense ratio is derived by dividing the sum of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and general and administrative expenses by net premiums earned. All items included in the loss and expense ratios are presented in the Company's U.S. GAAP financial statements. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. A combined ratio below 100% demonstrates underwriting profit whereas a combined ratio over 100% demonstrates an underwriting loss. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Estimates and their underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Changes in estimates are recorded in the accounting period in which they are determined. The critical accounting estimates and assumptions in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (as well as the reinsurance recoverable on those reserves), the valuation of fixed income and equity securities, the valuation of net deferred income taxes, the valuation of various securities that we have issued in conjunction with the termination of the management services agreement with 1347 Advisors, LLC, and the valuation of deferred policy acquisition costs. 27 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Adoption of Accounting Standards Due to Status as an Emerging Growth Company Section 107 of the JOBS act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the exemption from complying with new or revised accounting standards provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as long as we are an emerging growth company. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of these benefits until we are no longer an emerging growth company or until we affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of this exemption. Our financial statements may therefore not be comparable to those of companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards. Provision for Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves A significant degree of judgment is required to determine amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements for the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The process for establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves reflects the uncertainties and significant judgmental factors inherent in predicting future results of both known and unknown loss events. As such, the process is inherently complex and imprecise and estimates are constantly refined. The process of establishing the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relies on the judgment and opinions of a large number of individuals, including the opinions of the Company's independent actuaries. Factors affecting the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves include the continually evolving and changing regulatory and legal environment, actuarial studies, professional experience and expertise of the Company's claims departments' personnel and independent adjusters retained to handle individual claims, the quality of the data used for projection purposes, existing claims management practices including claims handling and settlement practices, the effect of inflationary trends on future loss settlement costs, court decisions, economic conditions and public attitudes. In the actuarial review process, an analysis of the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves is completed for the Company's insurance subsidiary. Unpaid losses, allocated loss adjustment expenses and unallocated loss adjustment expenses are separately analyzed by line of business or coverage by accident year. A wide range of actuarial methods are utilized in order to appropriately measure ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense costs. These methods include paid loss development, incurred loss development and frequency-severity method. Reasonability tests such as ultimate loss ratio trends and ultimate allocated loss adjustment expense to ultimate loss are also performed prior to selection of the final provision. The provision is indicated by line of business or coverage and is separated into case reserves, reserves for losses incurred but not reported ("IBNR") and a provision for loss adjustment expenses ("LAE"). Because the establishment of the provision for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, current provisions may need to be updated. Adjustments to the provision, both favorable and unfavorable, are reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for the periods in which such estimates are updated. Management determines the loss and loss adjustment expense reserves as recorded on the Company's financial statements, while the Company's independent actuaries develop a range of reasonable estimates and a point estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The actuarial point estimate is intended to represent the actuaries' best estimate and will not necessarily be at the mid-point of the high and low estimates of the range. Valuation of Fixed Income and Equity Securities The Company's fixed income and equity securities are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in inactive markets, quoted prices in active markets for similar instruments, benchmark interest rates, broker quotes and other relevant inputs. The Company does not have any fixed income or equity investments in its portfolio which require the Company to use unobservable inputs. Any change in the estimated fair value of its investments could impact the amount of unrealized gain or loss the Company has recorded, which could change the amount the Company has recorded for its investments and other comprehensive loss on its consolidated balance sheets and statements of comprehensive income (loss). Gains and losses realized on the disposition of investments are determined on the first-in, first-out basis and credited or charged to the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Premium and discount on investments are amortized and accreted using the interest method and charged or credited to net investment income. 28 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data The Company performs a quarterly analysis of its investment portfolio to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. Further information regarding its detailed analysis and factors considered in establishing an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment is discussed within Note 4 - Investments, to the consolidated financial statements. Valuation of Net Deferred Income Taxes The provision for income taxes is calculated based on the expected tax treatment of transactions recorded in the Company's consolidated financial statements. In determining its provision for income taxes, the Company interprets tax legislation in a variety of jurisdictions and makes assumptions about the expected timing of the reversal of deferred income tax assets and liabilities and the valuation of net deferred income taxes. The ultimate realization of the deferred income tax asset balance is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which the Company's temporary differences reverse and become deductible. A valuation allowance is established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset balance will not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is needed, management considers all available positive and negative evidence affecting specific deferred income tax asset balances, including the Company's past and anticipated future performance, the reversal of deferred income tax liabilities, and the availability of tax planning strategies. To the extent a valuation allowance is established in a period, an expense must be recorded within the income tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Securities issued to 1347 Advisors, LLC Pursuant to the termination of the Management Services Agreement with 1347 Advisors LLC ("Advisors," a wholly-owned subsidiary of KFSI), the Company issued Preferred Shares, Warrants, and entered into a Performance Share Grant Agreement with Advisors on February 24, 2015. Because the Preferred Shares have a provision requiring mandatory redemption on February 24, 2020, the Company was required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on its balance sheet. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the $4,200 ultimate amount of payments required to be made under the Preferred Shares which includes all periodic dividends to be paid on the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the timing and amounts of cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). The Company has estimated the fair value of the Warrants on grant date based upon the Black-Scholes option pricing model while it utilized a Monte Carlo model to determine the fair value of the Performance Share Grant Agreement due to the fact that the underlying shares are only issuable based upon the achievement of certain market conditions. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred policy acquisition costs represent the deferral of expenses that the Company incurs related to successful efforts to acquire new business or renew existing business. Acquisition costs, which consist of commissions, premium taxes and underwriting and agency expenses related to issuing insurance policies are deferred and charged against income ratably over the terms of the related insurance policies. Management regularly reviews the categories of acquisition costs that are deferred and assesses the recoverability of this asset. Costs associated with unsuccessful efforts or costs that cannot be tied directly to a successful policy acquisition are expensed as incurred, as opposed to being deferred and amortized as the premium is earned. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" in the Notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the recent accounting pronouncements and their effect, if any, on the Company. 29 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Analysis of Financial Condition As of June 30, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 Investments The Company's investments in fixed income and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at estimated fair value. The Company held an investment portfolio comprised primarily of fixed income securities issued by the U.S. government, government agencies and high quality corporate issuers. The fixed income portfolio is managed by a third-party investment management firm in accordance with the investment policies and guidelines approved by the Company's Board of Directors. These guidelines stress the preservation of capital, market liquidity and the diversification of risk. Additionally, an investment committee comprised of some the Company's directors is in place to identify, evaluate and approve suitable investment opportunities for the Company. This has resulted in a number of equity investments managed by the committee that represent approximately 4.9% of the Company's total investment portfolio as of June 30, 2017. Investments held by the Company's insurance subsidiary must also comply with applicable domiciliary state regulations that prescribe the type, quality and concentration of investments. The table below summarizes, by type, the Company's investments as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Pursuant to the certificate of authority that we received from the TDI, we are required to deposit securities with the State of Texas. These securities consist of fixed income securities listed in the table above having an amortized cost basis of $2,001 and an estimated fair value of $2,000 as of June 30, 2017. The Company's other investments are comprised of equity investments in two limited partnerships which seek to provide equity and asset-backed debt investment in a variety of privately-owned companies. The Company has committed to a total investment of $1,000, of which the limited partnerships have drawn down approximately $645 through June 30, 2017. One of these limited partnerships is managed by Argo Management Group, LLC, an entity which, as of April 21, 2016 is wholly owned by KFSI. The Company has accounted for its investments under the cost method as the instruments do not have readily determinable fair values and the Company does not exercise significant influence over the operations of the limited partnerships or the underlying privately-owned companies. Also included in other investments is a $300 certificate of deposit with an original term of 18 months deposited with the State of Florida pursuant to the terms of the certificate of authority issued to Maison from the FL OIR. Liquidity and Cash Flow Risk The table below summarizes the fair value of the Company's fixed income securities by contractual maturity as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Actual results may differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations, with or without penalties, prior to the contractual maturity of these obligations. The Company holds cash and high-grade short-term assets which, along with fixed income and equity securities, management believes are sufficient in amount for the payment of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves and other operating subsidiary obligations on a timely basis. The Company may not be able to liquidate its investments in the event that additional cash is required to meet obligations to its policyholders; however, the Company believes that the high-quality, liquid investments in its portfolio provide it with sufficient liquidity. 30 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in interest or currency exchange rates and equity prices. Given the Company's operations only invest in U.S. dollar denominated instruments and maintains a relatively insignificant investment in equity instruments, its primary market risk exposures in the investments portfolio are to changes in interest rates. Because the investments portfolio is comprised of primarily fixed maturity instruments that are usually held to maturity, periodic changes in interest rate levels generally impact the Company's financial results to the extent that the investments are recorded at market value and reinvestment yields are different than the original yields on maturing instruments. During periods of rising interest rates, the market values of the existing fixed income securities will generally decrease. The reverse is true during periods of declining interest rates. Credit Risk Credit risk is defined as the risk of financial loss due to failure of the other party to a financial instrument to discharge an obligation. Credit risk arises from the Company's positions in short-term investments, corporate debt instruments and government and government agency bonds. At June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company's debt securities had the following quality ratings as assigned by Standard and Poor's ("S&amp;P") or Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"). Other-Than-Temporary Impairment The length of time an individual investment may be held in an unrealized loss position may vary based on the opinion of the investment manager and their respective analyses related to valuation and to the various credit risks that may prevent the Company from recapturing the principal investment. In the case of an individual investment where the investment manager determines that there is little or no risk of default prior to maturity, the Company would elect to hold the investment in an unrealized loss position until the price recovers or the investment matures. In situations where facts emerge that might increase the risk associated with recapture of principal, the Company may elect to sell the investment at a loss. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of its investment portfolio to determine if declines in market value are other-than-temporary. Further information regarding the Company's detailed analysis and factors considered in establishing an other-than-temporary impairment on an investment is discussed within Note 4 - "Investments," to the consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this report. As a result of the analysis performed by the Company, there were no write-downs for other-than-temporary impairments related to investments for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. As of June 30, 2017, the gross unrealized losses for fixed income and equity securities amounted to $245 and $41, respectively, and there were no unrealized losses attributable to non-investment grade securities. At both June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, all unrealized losses on individual investments were considered temporary. Fixed income securities in unrealized loss positions continued to pay interest and were not subject to material changes in their respective debt ratings. The Company concluded the declines in value were considered temporary. As the Company has the capacity to hold these investments to maturity, no impairment provision was considered necessary. 31 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs The Company's deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") include commissions, premium taxes, assessments and policy processing fees that are directly related to successful efforts to acquire new or existing insurance policies to the extent they are considered recoverable and represent those costs related to acquiring the premiums the Company has yet to earn (the unearned premium reserve). DPAC increased $1,156, to $5,545 as of June 30, 2017 from $4,389 as of December 31, 2016. DPAC expressed as a percentage of unearned premium reserves was 18.5% as of June 30, 2017, compared to 17.0% as of December 31, 2016. This increase results from an increase in the effective rate on premium taxes that we pay in Louisiana and Texas due to a change in Louisiana statute whereby the Company no longer qualifies for certain credits on its premium taxes which were related to the value of investments held in the State of Louisiana. Premiums Receivable, Net of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Premiums receivable, net of allowances for credit losses, decreased by $660 to $2,263 as of June 30, 2017 from $2,923 as of December 31, 2016. Due to our participation in the Citizens take-out program on December 1, 2016, we had a balance due from Citizens for approximately $800 as of December 31, 2016, most of which had been collected as of June 30, 2017. Ceded Unearned Premiums Ceded unearned premiums represents the unexpired portion of premiums which have been paid to the Company's reinsurers. Ceded unearned premiums are charged to income over the terms of the respective reinsurance treaties. Ceded unearned premiums decreased $787 to $4,060 as of June 30, 2017 from $4,847 as of December 31, 2016 due predominantly to the amount and timing of installment payments due under our excess of loss catastrophe treaties. Reinsurance Recoverable Reinsurance recoverable on both paid losses and loss and LAE reserves represents amounts due to the Company, or expected to be due to the Company, from its reinsurers, based upon claims paid as well as claims reserves which have exceeded the retention amount under our reinsurance treaties. As of June 30, 2017, we have recorded expected recoveries from our reinsurers of $4,539 on paid losses and $6,012 on loss and LAE reserves, resulting primarily from recoveries due under both our 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 aggregate reinsurance treaties. See "Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves" in Item 2 of this report for further discussion on the Company's claims reserves and expected recoveries. Funds Deposited with Reinsured Companies Funds deposited with reinsured companies represents collateral that we had placed on deposit with Brotherhood based upon our quota-share agreement to reinsure a portion of Brotherhood's business for wind/hail coverage only. Pursuant to the agreement, we were required to fund our pro-rata portion of reserves that Brotherhood had established for losses and loss adjustments expenses, and any other amounts for which Brotherhood had not been able to take credit for on its annual statutory financial statements. As of December 31, 2016, we had funded this obligation via a deposit of $500 made to Brotherhood under a trust agreement. This collateral was returned to the Company in March 2017. Current Income Taxes Recoverable Current income taxes recoverable were $47 as of June 30, 2017 compared to $1,195 as of December 31, 2016, which represent the estimate of both the Company's state and federal income taxes paid in excess of amounts due as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Net Deferred Income Taxes Net deferred income taxes decreased $173 to $247 as of June 30, 2017 compared to $420 as of December 31, 2016. Net deferred income taxes are comprised of approximately $2,673 and $2,359 of deferred tax assets, net of approximately $2,426 and $1,939 of deferred tax liabilities as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. The change in the net deferred tax asset is primarily due to an increase in deferred tax liabilities associated with our deferred policy acquisition costs which increased over the corresponding period as previously discussed under the heading "Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs". Property and Equipment Property and equipment was $226 and $250 as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, and consists of computers, office equipment, and improvements at our leased facilities in Tampa, Florida and Baton Rouge, Louisiana, shown net of accumulated depreciation. Also included in these balances are vehicles that we have purchased for the use of our sales representatives in Texas, Florida and Louisiana. Our policy for the capitalization and depreciation of these assets can be found in Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in Item 1 of this report. 32 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Other Assets Other assets decreased $20, to $768 as of June 30, 2017 from $788 as of December 31, 2016. The major components of other assets, and the change therein, are shown below. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated liabilities for reported loss events, incurred and but not reported ("IBNR") loss events, as well as the related estimated loss adjustment expenses ("LAE"). The table below separates our loss reserves and LAE between IBNR and case specific estimates as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and also shows the expected reinsurance recoverable on those reserves. (1) Homeowners refers to our multi-peril policies for traditional dwellings as well as mobile and manufactured homes. (2) Special property includes both our fire and allied lines of business, which are primarily wind/hail only products, and also includes the commercial lines wind/hail only business that we have assumed through our agreement with Brotherhood and our personal lines wind/hail only business that we have assumed through our quota-share agreement with TWIA. Gross reserves as of June 30, 2017 were $9,583, an increase of $2,612 from December 31, 2016. Gross reserves in the approximate amount of $6,400 have been established for weather-related claims as the Company experienced a number of wind and hail storms in the first half of 2017, including Property Claims Services CAT 1714 which impacted our policyholders in both Louisiana and Texas in early February 2017. As of June 30, 2017, we anticipate our ultimate gross incurred losses from this storm to be approximately $1,900, and have outstanding gross reserves in the amount of $440 established as of June 30, 2017. Reinsurance recoverable on reserves as of June 30, 2017 were $6,012, an increase of $2,360 from December 31, 2016, due, in large to recoveries due to the Company for these same weather-related claims under the Company's aggregate reinsurance treaty. As a result of the foregoing, net loss reserves were $3,571 and $3,319 as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. The Company cannot predict whether loss and loss adjustment expense reserves will develop favorably or unfavorably from the amounts reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Any such development could have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial results for a given period. Unearned Premium Reserves Unearned premium reserves increased to $29,913 as of June 30, 2017 compared to $25,821 as of December 31, 2016. The following table outlines the change in unearned premium reserves by line of business. 33 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data As of June 30, 2017 approximately 81% of the Company's unearned premiums resulted from Louisiana policies, with the remaining 19% from Texas, compared to 92% Louisiana and 8% Texas as of December 31, 2016. Ceded Reinsurance Premiums Payable Ceded reinsurance premiums payable increased $1,075 to $6,304 as of June 30, 2017 compared to $5,229 as of December 31, 2016. The bulk of the balance payable as of June 30, 2017 represents a quarterly installment payment due under our catastrophe reinsurance program, which was paid in July 2017. Agency Commissions Payable Agency commissions payable increased $424 to $921 as of June 30, 2017 compared to $497 as of December 31, 2016. As agency commissions are paid in arrears, this balance represents commissions owed to the Company's independent agencies on policies written throughout the months ended June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Since the commissions that we pay to our independent agencies are based upon a percentage of the premium written by our agencies, the balance due will vary directly with the volume of premium written in the month. Premiums Collected in Advance Premium deposits were $2,226 and $1,128 and represent cash that the Company has received for policies which were not yet in-force as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Upon the effective date of coverage, advance premiums are reclassified to the unearned premium reserve account. Funds held under Reinsurance Treaties Funds held under reinsurance treaties represents collateral that we have received on deposit from our reinsurers under our catastrophe excess of loss treaties and is intended to fund those reinsurers pro-rata portion of reserves that we have established for losses and loss adjustment expenses. As of December 31, 2016, we had received cash deposits of $73 from our reinsurers. This balance was reduced to $50 as of June 30, 2017 as a portion of the balance was applied to reinsurance recoveries due to us on paid losses during the six months ended June 30, 2017. Accounts Payable and Other Accrued Expenses Accounts payable and other accrued expenses increased $1,386, to $3,451 as of June 30, 2017 from $2,065 as of December 31, 2016. The major components of accrued expenses and other liabilities, as well as the change therein, are shown below. 34 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Related Party Transactions As a result of the termination of the Management Services Agreement ("MSA"), which occurred on February 24, 2015, the Company has issued the following securities to 1347 Advisors, LLC ("Advisors"), a wholly owned subsidiary of KFSI. 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable pursuant to the Performance Shares Grant Agreement dated February 24, 2015, and subject to the achievement of the Milestone Event; 120,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Shares"); and A warrant (the "Warrant") to purchase 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $15.00 per share. The Warrant expires on February 24, 2022. The Performance Shares Grant Agreement grants Advisors 100,000 shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the date that the last sales price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share for any 20 trading days within any 30-day trading period (the "Milestone Event"). Advisors will not be entitled to any dividends declared or paid on the Company's stock prior to the Milestone Event having been achieved. The Preferred Shares have a par value of $25.00 dollars and pay annual cumulative dividends at a rate of eight percent per annum. Cumulative dividends shall accrue, whether or not declared by the Board and irrespective of whether there are funds legally available for the payment of dividends. Accrued dividends shall be paid in cash only when, as, and if declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor or upon a liquidation or redemption of the Preferred Shares. In the event of any voluntary of involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the Preferred Shares then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distributions to its shareholders, before any payment shall be made to holders of securities junior in preference to the Preferred Shares. The Preferred Shares rank senior to the Company's common stock, and the Company is not permitted to issue any other series of preferred stock that ranks equal or senior to the Preferred Shares while the Preferred Shares are outstanding. On both February 24, 2017 and 2016, the Company issued a cash payment of $240 to Advisors representing annual dividend payments due on the Preferred Shares. Unless redeemed earlier by the Company as discussed below, with the written consent of the holders of the majority of the Preferred Shares then outstanding, the Company will be required to redeem the Preferred Shares then outstanding on February 24, 2020 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), for a redemption amount equal to $25.00 dollars per share outstanding plus all accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares. The Company has the option to redeem the Preferred Shares prior to the Mandatory Redemption Date immediately prior to the consummation of any change in control of the Company that may occur. Since the Preferred Shares have a mandatory redemption provision requiring redemption on February 24, 2020, the Company was required to classify the Preferred Shares as a liability on the balance sheet instead of recording the value of these shares in equity. The resulting liability was recorded at a discount to the ultimate redemption amount of the Preferred Shares based upon an analysis of the cash payments expected to occur under the terms of the Preferred Shares discounted for the Company's estimated cost of equity (13.9%). As a result, amortization in the amount of $1,889 will be charged to operations during the period the Preferred Shares are outstanding using the effective interest method. For the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, amortization of the discount on the Preferred Shares totaled $183 and $174, respectively. Investment in Limited Liability Company On April 21, 2016, KFSI completed the acquisition of Argo Management Group LLC ("Argo"). Argo's primary business is to act as the Managing Member of Argo Holdings Fund I, LLC, an investment fund in which the Company has committed to invest $500, of which the Company has invested $211 as of June 30, 2017. The managing member of Argo, Mr. John T. Fitzgerald, was also appointed to KFSI's board of directors on April 21, 2016. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2017, the Company had the following amounts due under its operating leases for facilities leased in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and Tampa, Florida. 35 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Shareholders' Equity The primary drivers behind the changes to total shareholders' equity for the six months ended June 30, 2017 were the Company's net income as well as net unrealized gains on its investment portfolio as shown below. Results of Operations Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 Compared with Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 Gross Premiums Written The following table shows our gross premiums written by line of business for the three and six months ending June 30, 2017 and 2016. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, gross premiums written in the State of Louisiana represented approximately 75% of total gross written premiums, with the remaining 25% written in Texas. For the same period in the preceding year, gross premiums written in Louisiana and Texas represented 92% and 8%, respectively. Ceded Premiums Written Ceded premiums written increased to $10,375 for the six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to $9,441 for the same period 2016. The increase in ceded premiums written is primarily due to an increase in the total insured value of the Company's book of business year over year as well as the change in the geographic mix of coverage that we provide. While the limits purchased under our catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance ("CAT XOL") and aggregate programs did not change year over year, our treaty years run from June 1st through May 31st of each year, thus the six month periods ending June 30, 2017 and 2016 are covered by ceded premiums written under three separate reinsurance treaties. Therefore, the increase in ceded premiums written for the six month period can also be attributed to the increase in limits purchased when comparing our 2015/2016 treaty with the Company's two most recent treaties. The following table is a summary of the key provisions under each of our treaties. 36 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data (1) Specifies the time period during which our losses from the same occurrence may be aggregated and applied to our retention and limits. We may pick the date and time when the period of consecutive hours begin in order to maximize our recovery. (2) Specifies the gross incurred losses by which each 144 hour loss occurrence must exceed before recoveries are generated under our aggregate treaty. Once the franchise deductible is met, all losses under the loss occurrence qualify for recovery, not just those losses which exceed the franchise deductible amount. The total cost of our CAT XOL and aggregate coverage is estimated to be approximately $24,200 for the 2017/2018 treaty year, but will ultimately be based upon the Company's premium in force as of September 30, 2017. The total cost of our CAT XOL and aggregate coverage was $21,200 for the 2016/2017 treaty year. Net Premium Earned The following table shows our net premiums earned by line of business. Premium earned on a gross and ceded basis is as shown in the following table. Other Income Other income increased $271 to $788 for the six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to $517 for the same period in 2016. Comparing the three month periods ending June 30, 2017 and 2016, other income increased $157 to $411 from $254. Other income is comprised of policy fee income charged to our policyholders for inspections, premium financing fees for those policyholders which elect to pay their premiums on an installment basis, and also commission revenue resulting from a brokerage sharing agreement between our insurance subsidiary, Maison, and the intermediary Maison uses to place its CAT XOL reinsurance program. The growth in our book of business is the main driver behind the increase in other income when comparing the three and six month periods ending June 30, 2017 to 2016. Net losses and loss adjustment expenses Net losses and LAE represent both actual payments made and changes in estimated future payments to be made to our policyholders. The following table sets forth the components of our losses and loss ratios for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. 37 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data (1) We define Core Loss as net losses and LAE less the sum of catastrophe losses and prior period development/redundancy. (2) Property Claims Services (PCS) defines a catastrophic event as an event where the insurance industry is estimated to incur over $25,000 of insured property damage that also impacts a significant number of insureds. For purposes of the above table, we have defined a catastrophe as a PCS event where the Company's estimated gross incurred cost (before recovery from reinsurance) exceeds $1,500. (3) Prior period development is the amount of ultimate actual loss settlement value which is more than the estimated reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss, while redundancy represents the ultimate actual loss settlement value which is less than the estimated and determined reserves recorded for a particular liability or loss. Our net loss ratio (net losses and LAE divided by net premiums earned) for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was 36.7%, compared to a net loss ratio of 53.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The primary driver for the reduction in net loss ratio was a reduction in catastrophe losses in the current year. The first quarter of 2016 was marked by severe storms which produced multiple tornadoes throughout Louisiana and Texas in February and March 2016. Our total gross incurred losses from these two separate events exceeded $1,500 each (PCS events 1616 and 1617). Our catastrophe reinsurance program was structured so that our retention was set at $4,000 for a single event. Our net incurred losses from these storms were $4,986 through June 30, 2016, due to reinsurance recoveries under both our catastrophe and per-risk reinsurance treaties, accounting for over half of the loss ratio for the six months ended June 30, 2016. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, we experienced one catastrophe event - PCS event 1714 which effected our policyholders in Louisiana during early February with hail, tornado and other wind damage. We anticipate our ultimate net losses from this storm to be approximately $1,700, as any further development on this storm will be covered by our aggregate treaty under our 2016/2017 reinsurance program. Since we have met the retention under our aggregate treaty in the first quarter of 2017, we will also benefit from reinsurance recoveries for weather-related non-catastrophe losses which exceed our franchise deductible of $125 and have a date of loss between June 1, 2016 and May 31, 2017. This was the biggest driver in the redundancy of $1,222 that we experienced in the current six month period. Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Amortization of deferred acquisition costs for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $5,112 compared to $4,053 for the six months ended June 30, 2016, and includes items such as commissions earned by our agencies, premium taxes, assessments, and policy processing fees. Expressed as a percentage of gross earned premiums, amortization was 18.4% in the current quarter, compared to 17.6% in the same quarter last year. For the first half of the year, amortization as a percentage of gross earned premiums was 18.5% and 17.4% in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase in amortization of deferred acquisition costs as a percentage of gross earned premiums can be attributed to an increase in the effective rate of the premium taxes that we pay due to the loss of an investment credit received on our premium taxes in previous years. Effective January 1, 2017, the State of Louisiana amended this credit such that certain assets such as cash and money market funds held in the state of Louisiana would no longer qualify as a tax credit on the Company's premium taxes. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $2,299 for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, compared to $1,746 for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. For the six month periods ending June 30, 2017 and 2016, general and administrative expenses were $4,390 and $3,324, respectively. Expressed as a percentage of gross premium earned, general and administrative expenses were 15.9% and 14.3%, for the six month periods of 2017 and 2016, respectively. The largest drivers in the increase in general and administrative expense over both the three and six month periods include employee costs and professional fees. Employee costs accounted for 34% of the six month increase as we have increased staffing to support our growth in Texas and Florida while professional fees accounted for 40% of the six month increase as we have initiated a review of the rates that we charge on our risks in Louisiana. 38 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Income Tax Expense Income tax expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 was $639 and $774, respectively, on pre-tax income of $1,560 and 1,941, respectively. This resulted in an effective tax rate of 41% and 40%, respectively. For the three and six month periods ending June 30, 2016, our effective income tax rate was 38% and 52%, respectively. The variances to the effective income tax rate between periods is due, in large, to state income taxes charged to the Company's subsidiaries. Net Income As a result of the foregoing, the Company's net income for the second quarter 2017 was $921, or $0.15 per diluted share, compared to net income of $1,340, or $0.22 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2016. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, net income was $1,167 or $0.20 per diluted share, compared to net income of $225 or $0.04 per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources The purpose of liquidity management is to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet all financial commitments and obligations as they become due. The liquidity requirements for the Company and its subsidiaries have been met primarily by funds generated from operations, and from the proceeds from the sales of its common and preferred stock. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for loss and LAE payments as well as other operating expenses. The timing and amount of payments for net losses and loss adjustment expenses may differ materially from the Company's provisions for loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which may create increased liquidity requirements. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the Company's consolidated cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. Six months ended June 30, 2017 For the six months ended June 30, 2017, net cash provided by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $7,706, driven, in large, by our collection of approximately $24,113 in premiums for the period (net of the amounts that we have ceded to our reinsurers), less the payment of approximately $9,857 in loss and LAE expenses (net of ceded recoveries collected from our reinsurers). We also paid approximately $4,172 in commissions to our agencies, Brotherhood and Citizens (as ceding commissions), as well as cash payments in the approximate amount of $2,378 for taxes, assessments and general and administrative expenses. Net cash used in investing activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $15,378, driven primarily by the net purchases of fixed income securities and other investments for our investment portfolio. Net cash used in financing activities was $240, as a result of a dividend payment made to Advisors as holders of the Preferred Shares issued in the MSA termination transaction. As a result of the foregoing, cash and cash equivalents decreased from $43,045 as of December 31, 2016 to $35,133 as of June 30, 2017. Six months ended June 30, 2016 For the six months ended June 30, 2016, net cash provided by operating activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $3,672, driven, in large, by our collection of approximately $19,900 in premiums for the period (net of the amounts that we have ceded to our reinsurers), less the payment of approximately $10,100 in loss and LAE expenses (net of ceded recoveries collected from our reinsurers). We also paid approximately $3,415 in commissions to our agencies, as well as to Brotherhood and Citizens as ceding commissions. Lastly, cash payments in the approximate amount of $2,713 were made for taxes, assessments and general and administrative expenses. 39 1347 PROPERTY INSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES $ amounts in thousands, except share and per share data Net cash used in investing activities as reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows was $5,303, resulting from the net purchases of fixed income and equity securities for our investment portfolio. Net cash used in financing activities was $761, which results from a dividend payment of $240 made to Advisors as holders of the Preferred Shares issued in the MSA termination transaction, as well as the payment of $521 for the repurchase of 75,268 shares of our common stock pursuant to our share buyback program, which expired on December 31, 2016. As a result of the foregoing, cash and cash equivalents decreased from $47,957 as of December 31, 2015 to $45,565 as of June 30, 2016. Regulatory Capital In the United States, a risk-based capital ("RBC") formula is used by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") to identify property and casualty insurance companies that may not be adequately capitalized. Most states, including Louisiana, the domiciliary state of our insurance subsidiary, Maison, as well as Texas, where Maison began writing business in June 2015, have adopted the NAIC RBC requirements. In general, insurers reporting surplus with respect to policyholders below 200% of the authorized control level, as defined by the NAIC, on December 31 st of the previous year are subject to varying levels of regulatory action, which may include discontinuation of operations. As of June 30, 2017, Maison's reported surplus was considered to be in the "no action" level by the Louisiana Department of Insurance. Furthermore, pursuant to the consent order approving Maison's admission into the State of Texas, Maison has agreed to: Establish a deposit of $2,000 for the benefit of Texas policyholders. The Company has fulfilled this obligation by depositing fixed income securities, having an estimated fair value of $2,000 as of June 30, 2017, with the State of Texas. Maintain a Risk-Based-Capital ("RBC") ratio of 300% or more, and provide calculation of such ratio to the TDI on a periodic basis. Maison has fulfilled this obligation by maintaining an RBC ratio over 300% through June 30, 2017. Similarly, although Maison has not yet written any insurance policies in the State of Florida, pursuant to the consent order approving Maison's admission into the State of Florida, Maison has agreed to: Maintain a Risk-Based-Capital ("RBC") ratio of 300% or more. Maintain minimum capital and surplus as to policyholders of $35,000. Restrict the payment of dividends to only those which have been approved in advance by the FL OIR. As of June 30, 2017, Maison has fulfilled these obligations as its RBC ratio exceeded 300% and its capital surplus was $36,472.