Item 1. Financial Statements ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) (1) Excludes deferral and amortization of stock-based compensation expense. (2) Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of stock-based compensation expense. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY For the Three Months Ended March31, 2016 (Unaudited) (Amounts and shares in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation Activision Blizzard,Inc. ( Activision Blizzard ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc. and its subsidiaries. We currently offer games for video game consoles, personal computers ( PC ), and handheld, mobile, and tablet devices. We maintain significant operations in the United States ( U.S. ), Canada, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), France, Germany,Ireland,Italy, Sweden, Spain, the Netherlands, Australia, South Korea, and China. Activision Blizzard is the result of the 2008 business combination ( Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision,Inc., VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), VGACLLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGACLLC. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. As of March31, 2016, we had approximately 738 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. At that date: (i)ASAC II LP ( ASAC ), an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands, held 172 million shares, or approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (ii)our other stockholders held approximately 77% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of Directors, are affiliates of ASAC II LLC, the general partner of ASAC. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On November2, 2015, we and King Digital Entertainmentplc ( King ), a leading interactive mobile entertainment company, entered into a Transaction Agreement (the Transaction Agreement ) under the terms of which we would acquire King (the King Acquisition ) and King would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On February23, 2016 we completed the King Acquisition as further described in Note 14 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the operations of King commencing on February23, 2016. Reportable Segments Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable operating segments as follows: (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision delivers content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults, and from core gamers to mass-market consumers, in a variety of geographies. Activision develops, markets, and sells products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, including games in the Call of Duty and Skylanders franchises, as well as some licensed properties. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe,Destiny. Activision currently offers games that operate on the Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ) Xbox One ( Xbox One ) and Xbox360 ( Xbox360 ), NintendoCo.Ltd. ( Nintendo ) Wii U ( Wii U ) and Wii ( Wii ), and Sony Computer Entertainment,Inc. ( Sony ) PlayStation 4 ( PS4 ) and PlayStation 3 ( PS3 ) console systems; the PC; the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Dual Screen, and Sony PlayStation Vita handheld game systems; and mobile and tablet devices. 9 (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ) is a leader in online PC gaming, including the subscription-based massively multi-player online role-playing game category in terms of both subscriber base and revenues generated through its World of Warcraft franchise. Blizzard also develops, markets, and sells role-playing action and strategy games for the PC, console, mobile and tablet platforms, including games in the multiple-award winning Diablo, StarCraft, Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft , and Heroes of the Storm franchises. In addition, Blizzard maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Battle.net, which facilitates digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid subscription cards; in-game purchases and services; retail sales of physical boxed products; online download sales of PC products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile and tablet platforms; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. (iii)King Digital Entertainment King Digital Entertainment is a leading interactive mobile entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms such as Facebook and king.com websites. King has four category-leading free-to-play franchises: Candy Crush , Farm Heroes , Bubble Witch , and Pet Rescue , where monetization occurs through players purchasing in-game virtual currency which can be used in-game to buy virtual items. (iv)Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: The Activision Blizzard Media Networks ( Media Networks ) business that is devoted to eSports that builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver the best-in-class fan experience across games, platforms, and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments, and premium content. The Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business that is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our extensive library of iconic and globally-recognized intellectual properties. The Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business that consists of operations in Europe which provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Basis of Consolidation and Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) for interim reporting. Accordingly, certain notes or other information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted if they substantially duplicate the disclosures contained in the annual audited consolidated financial statements. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. 10 The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for the fair statement of our financial position and results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been included in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company considers events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued, to provide additional evidence relative to certain estimates or to identify matters that require additional disclosures. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies During the three months ended March31, 2016, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies but we did expand the accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition to include virtual currency as noted below. Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 for our full summary of significant accounting policies. Microtransaction Revenues Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual goods and currencies to our players to enhance their gameplay experience. Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods and currencies are initially recorded in deferred revenues. Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as a player uses the virtual goods purchased with the virtual currency. We categorize our virtual goods as either consumable or durable. Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed. Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time. We recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player, generally the estimated service period of the game. Supplemental Cash Flow Information: Non-cash investing and financing activities As of March31, 2016, we had accrued withholding tax payments related to net share settlements on restricted stock rights of $45 million within Accrued expenses and other liabilities. Additionally, we had non-cash purchase price consideration of $89 million related to vested and unvested stock options and awards that were assumed and replaced with Activision Blizzard equity or deferred cash awards in the King Acquisition. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion. 2. Inventories, Net Our inventories, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): At March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, inventory reserves were $59 million and $54 million, respectively. 11 3. Software Development and Intellectual Property Licenses The following table summarizes the components of our capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses (amounts in millions): Amortization of capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses was the following (amounts in millions): 4. Intangible Assets, Net Intangible assets, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): 12 The balances of Intangible assets, net presented in the table above at March31, 2016, does not include license agreement intangible assets that were fully amortized at December31, 2015, and hence, have been removed from the March31, 2016 balances as presented. Amortization expense of intangible assets was $82 million and $1 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. At March31, 2016, future amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is estimated as follows (amounts in millions): 5. Goodwill The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment for the three months ended March31, 2016 are as follows (amounts in millions): Other includes tax benefits credited to goodwill for tax deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options that were outstanding and vested at the consummation of the Business Combination and included in the purchase price of the Company, to the extent that the tax deduction did not exceed the fair value of those options. Conversely, to the extent that the tax deduction did exceed the fair value of those options, the tax benefit is credited to additional paid-in capital. Other also includes the impact to goodwill from changes in foreign exchange rates. The addition to goodwill through acquisition is attributed to the King Acquisition (see Note14 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). 13 6. Fair Value Measurements Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) literature regarding fair value measurements for financial and non-financial assets and liabilities establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. This hierarchy requires entities to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis The table below segregates all financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis into the most appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine the fair value at the measurement date (amounts in millions): 14 ARS represented the only level3 investment held by the Company. There were no changes in the fair value of these investments for the three months ended March31, 2016. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges For foreign currency forward contracts entered into to mitigate risk from foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings that are not designated as hedging instruments in accordance with FASB Accounting Standard Codification ( ASC ) Topic 815, changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives are recorded within General and administrative expenses and Interest and other expense (income), net in our condensed consolidated statements of operations, consistent with the nature of the underlying transactions. At March31, 2016, the gross notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges was approximately $376 million. The fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts was $8 million as of March31, 2016, and recorded in Other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. At December31, 2015, the gross notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges was approximately $489 million. The fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts was $11 million as of December31, 2015, and recorded in Other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were not material. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges For foreign currency forward contracts entered into to hedge forecasted intercompany cash flows that are subject to foreign currency risk and which we designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with ASC Topic 815, we assess the effectiveness of these cash flow hedges at inception and on an ongoing basis to determine if the hedges are effective at providing offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. We record the effective portion of changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassify the related amount of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings within General and administrative expense when the hedged item impacts earnings. Cash flows from these foreign currency forward contracts are classified in the same category as the cash flows associated with the hedged item in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We measure hedge ineffectiveness, if any, and if it is determined that a derivative has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, we will discontinue hedge accounting for the derivative. 15 The gross notional amount of all outstanding foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges was approximately $449 million at March31, 2016 and $381 million at December31, 2015. These foreign currency forward contracts have remaining maturities of 12 months or less. During the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, there was no ineffectiveness relating to these hedges. At March31, 2016, $9 million of net unrealized losses related to these contracts are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. During the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, the amount pre-tax net realized losses reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) due to maturity of these contracts was not material. Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis. 7. Debt Credit Facilities Term Loan. On October 11, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) for a $2.5 billion secured term loan facility maturing in October 2020 (the Term Loan ), and a $250 million secured revolving credit facility (the Original Revolver ). A portion of the Original Revolver could be used to issue letters of credit of up to $50 million, subject to the availability of the Original Revolver. Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest, payable on a quarterly basis, at an annual rate equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, (A)a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (a)the interest rate in effect determined by the administrative agent as its prime rate, (b)the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, and (c)the London InterBank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, or (B)LIBOR.LIBOR borrowings under the Term Loan are subject to a LIBOR floor of 0.75%. At March31, 2016, the Term Loan bore interest at 3.25%. In certain circumstances, our applicable interest rate under the Term Loan will increase. In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal balances under the Term Loan, we were required to pay the lenders a commitment fee on unused commitments under the Original Revolver. Commitment fees are recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net on the condensed consolidated statement of operations. We are also required to pay customary letter of credit fees, if any, and agency fees. The terms of the Credit Agreement require quarterly principal repayments of 0.25% of the Term Loan s original principal amount, with the balance due on the maturity date. On February11, 2014, we made a voluntary repayment of $375 million on our Term Loan. This repayment satisfied the required quarterly principal repayments for the entire term of the Credit Agreement. On February11, 2015, we made an additional voluntary repayment of $250 million on our Term Loan. On February25, 2016 and March31, 2016, we made additional voluntary repayments of $500 million and $250 million, respectively, on our Term Loan. 16 TrancheA Term Loans. In conjunction with the King Acquisition, the Company entered into three Amendments to the Credit Agreement (the Amendments ). The Amendments, among other things, provided for incremental term loans in the form of Tranche A Term Loans in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.3 billion. The proceeds were issued and provided on February 23, 2016, upon successful closing of the King Acquisition and were used to fund the King Acquisition. On March 31, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to the Credit Agreement which provided for an incremental Tranche A Term Loan in the aggregate principal amount of $250 million, of which the total proceeds from the incremental borrowing were used to make the voluntary prepayment on our Term Loan discussed above. The TrancheA Term Loans are scheduled to mature on October11, 2020 and bear interest, at the Company s option, at either (a)a base rate equal to the highest of (i)the federal funds rate, plus 0.5%, (ii)the prime commercial lending rate of Bank of America, N.A. and (iii)the LIBOR for an interest period of one month beginning on such day plus 1.00%, or (b)LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable interest margin. LIBOR is subject to a floor of 0% and the base rate is subject to an effective floor of 1.00%. The applicable interest margin for TrancheA Term Loans ranges from 1.50% to 2.25% for LIBOR borrowings and from 0.50% to 1.25% for base rate borrowings and is determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Company s Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The TrancheA Term Loans require quarterly principal payments of 0.625% of the stated principal amount of the TrancheA Term Loans commencing June30, 2016, with increases to 1.250% starting on June30, 2019 and 3.125% starting on June30, 2020, with the remaining balance payable on the TrancheA Term Loans scheduled maturity date of October11, 2020. Voluntary prepayments of the TrancheA Term Loans are permitted at any time, in minimum principal amounts, without premium or penalty. The TrancheA Term Loans are subject to a financial maintenance covenant requiring the Company to maintain a maximum Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 4.00 to 1.00, which will decrease to 3.50 to 1.00 (I)after the sixth full fiscal quarter after the TrancheA Term Loans are made or (II)if the Collateral Suspension occurs prior to the date falling 18 months after the TrancheA Term Loans are made, on the later of (x)the last day of the fourth full fiscal quarter after the TrancheA Term Loans are made and (y)the last day of the fiscal quarter in which the Collateral Suspension occurs. The TrancheA Term Loans are secured by the same collateral and guaranteed by the same guarantors that secure and guarantee the Term Loan. The other terms of the TrancheA Term Loans are also generally the same as the terms of the Term Loan. At March31, 2016, the Tranche A Term Loans bore interest at 2.43%. In certain circumstances, our applicable interest rate under the Tranche A Term Loans will increase. 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. As part of the Amendments, upon the closing of the King Acquisition, the Company s Original Revolver under the Credit Agreement in an aggregate principal amount of $250 million was replaced with a new revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement in the same aggregate principal amount (the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility, and, together with the Term Loan and Tranche A Term Loans, the Credit Facilities ). Borrowings under the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed by the Company and are available for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Up to $50 million of the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility may be used for letters of credit. The 2015 Revolving Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on October11, 2020. Borrowings under the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company s option, under the same terms as the TrancheA Term Loans. Additionally, the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility is subject to the same financial maintenance covenant and is secured by the same collateral and guaranteed by the same guarantors that secure and guarantee the TrancheA Term Loans. The other terms of the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility are generally the same as the terms of the Original Revolver. To date, we have not drawn on the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. 17 The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by certain of the Company s U.S. subsidiaries, whose assets represent approximately 68% of our consolidated total assets. The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of debt, granting of liens, payment of dividends, sales of assets, and mergers and acquisitions. A violation of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of such event of default or certain other customary events of default, payment of any outstanding amounts under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated, and the lenders commitments to extend credit under the Credit Agreement may be terminated. In addition, an event of default under the Credit Agreement could, under certain circumstances, permit the holders of other outstanding unsecured debt, including the debt holders described below, to accelerate the repayment of such obligations. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Credit Facilities as of March31, 2016. Unsecured Senior Notes On September19, 2013, we issued, at par, $1.5 billion of 5.625% unsecured senior notes due September2021 (the 2021 Notes ) and $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September2023 (the 2023 Notes and, together with the 2021 Notes, the Notes ) in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers made in accordance with Rule144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities described above. The Notes are guaranteed on a senior basis by certain of our U.S. subsidiaries. The Notes and related guarantees are not secured and are effectively subordinated to any of the Company s existing and future indebtedness that is secured, including the Credit Facilities. The Notes contain customary covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of debt, granting of liens, payment of dividends, sales of assets, and mergers and acquisitions. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of March31, 2016. Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March15 and September15 of each year. As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, we had interest payable of $5 million and $38 million, respectively, related to the Notes, recorded within Accrued expenses and other liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We may redeem the 2021 Notes on or after September15, 2016 and the 2023 Notes on or after September15, 2018, in whole or in part on any one or more occasions, at specified redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest. At any time prior to September15, 2016, with respect to the 2021 Notes, and at any time prior to September15, 2018, with respect to the 2023 Notes, we may also redeem some or all of the Notes by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Further, upon the occurrence of one or more qualified equity offerings, we may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of each of the 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes outstanding with the net cash proceeds from such offerings. The Notes are repayable, in whole or in part and at the option of the holders, upon the occurrence of a change in control and a ratings downgrade, at a purchase price equal to 101% of principal, plus accrued and unpaid interest.These redemption options are considered clearly and closely related to the Notes and are not accounted for separately upon issuance. Fees associated with the closing of the Term Loan, Tranche A Term Loans, and the Notes are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective the carrying values, and is amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. In connection with the debt financing for the King Acquisition, we incurred $38 million of issuance costs that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The amortization of these capitalized costs was not material to our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March31, 2016. 18 We reclassified and presented unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the Term Loan, Tranche A Term Loans, and the Notes as a reduction of their respective gross carrying amounts for all periods presented in accordance with a recent accounting standard that became effective during the period. Refer to Note 15 for further discussion of the recent accounting standard that became effective during the period. A summary of our debt is as follows (amounts in millions): For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, interest expense was $53 million and $49 million, respectively, amortization of the debt discount for the Credit Facilities and Notes was $4 million and $1 million, respectively, and commitment fees for the Original Revolver and the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility were not material. As of March31, 2016, the scheduled maturities and contractual principal repayments of our debt for each of the five succeeding years are as follows (amounts in millions): As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, the carrying value of the Term Loan and Tranche A Term Loans approximates the fair value, based on Level 2 inputs (observable market prices in less than active markets), as the interest rate is variable over the selected interest period and is similar to current rates at which we can borrow funds. Based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes were $1,577 million, and $804 million, respectively, as of March31, 2016. Based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes were $1,571 million and $795 million, respectively, as of December31, 2015. Debt Repayments On February2, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized debt repayments of up to $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt during 2016. As of March31, 2016, we have made prepayments to reduce our total outstanding term loans by $500 million. 19 8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at March31, 2016 and 2015, were as follows (amounts in millions): Income taxes were not provided for foreign currency translation items as these are considered indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. 9. Operating Segments and Geographic Region Our operating segments are consistent with our internal organizational structure, the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ), the manner in which we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. Currently, we have three reportable operating segments (see Note1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). We do not aggregate operating segments. The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of sales with respect to certain of our online-enabled games, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting, and fees and other expenses related to financings and acquisitions. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Information on the operating segments and reconciliations of total net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 are presented below (amounts in millions): 20 (1) Other includes other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Media Networks, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Other also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses related to the King Acquisition, inclusive of related debt financings. Geographic information presented below for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 is based on the location of the paying customer. Net revenues from external customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions): The Company s net revenues in the U.S. were 49% and 53% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company s net revenues in the U.K. were 11% and 12% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. No other country s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015. 21 Net revenues by platform were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from PC includes revenues that were historically shown as Online. (2) Net revenues from mobile and ancillary includes revenues from handheld, mobile and tablet devices, as well as non-platform specific game-related revenues such as standalone sales of toys and accessories products from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (3) Net revenues from Other include revenues from our Media Networks, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Long-lived assets by geographic region at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) The only long-lived assets that we classify by region are our long-term tangible fixed assets, which only include property, plant, and equipment assets; all other long-term assets are not allocated by location. 10. Income Taxes The Company accounts for its provision for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year. The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits, state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. The income tax expense of $73 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 reflects an effective tax rate of 18%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 20% for the three months ended March31, 2015. This decrease is the result of an incremental tax benefit included in the three months ended March31, 2016 due to the mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates as compared to domestic earnings and the net benefit related to the settlement of a historical audit, partially offset by certain nondeductible costs incurred during the quarter. 22 The effective tax rate of 18% for the three months ended March31, 2016 differed from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, the net benefit related to the settlement of a historical audit, recognition of federal and California research and development credits, and federal domestic production deductions, partially offset by certain nondeductible costs incurred during the quarter and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The overall effective income tax rate for the year will be dependent, in part, on our profitability for the remainder of the year, as well as the other factors described above. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) is currently examining Activision Blizzard s federal tax returns for the 2009 through 2011 tax years. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company transitioned the review of its transfer pricing methodology from the advanced pricing agreement review process to the IRS examination team. Their review could result in a different allocation of profits and losses under the Company s transfer pricing agreements. Such allocation could have a positive or negative impact on our provision for uncertain tax positions for the period in which such a determination is reached and the relevant periods thereafter. In addition, as part of the purchase price accounting, the Company assumed $77 million of uncertain tax positions primarily related to the transfer pricing of King tax years occurring prior to the King Acquisition. The Company is currently in negotiations with the relevant jurisdictions and the taxing authorities which could result in a different allocation of profits and losses between the relevant jurisdictions. In addition, Vivendi Games tax year 2008 remains open to examination by the major taxing authorities. In addition, Vivendi Games tax return for the 2008 tax year is before the Appeals function of the IRS and is under examination by several state taxing authorities. While Vivendi Games results for the period January1, 2008 through July9, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state and local income tax returns filed by Vivendi or its affiliates, Vivendi Games results for the period July10, 2008 through December31, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state, and local income tax returns filed by Activision Blizzard. Additionally, the Company has several state and non-U.S. audits pending. The final resolution of the Company s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution of the Company s global tax disputes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in the period in which the matters are ultimately resolved. In 2013, in connection with a share repurchase from Vivendi (the Purchase Transaction ), we assumed certain tax attributes, generally consisting of net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards of approximately $760 million, which represent a potential future tax benefit of approximately $266 million. The utilization of such NOL carryforwards will be subject to certain annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2021. The Company also obtained indemnification from Vivendi against losses attributable to the disallowance of claimed utilization of such NOL carryforwards of up to $200 million in unrealized tax benefits in the aggregate, limited to taxable years ending on or prior to December31, 2016. No benefit for these tax attributes or indemnification was recorded upon the close of the share repurchase. For the three months ended March31, 2016, we utilized $184 million of the NOL, which resulted in a tax benefit of $64 million, and a corresponding reserve of $64 million was established. As of March31, 2016, an indemnification asset of $171 million has been recorded in Other Assets, and, correspondingly, the same amount has been recorded as a reduction to the consideration paid for the shares repurchased in Treasury Stock (see Note1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the share repurchase). 23 11. Computation of Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share (amounts in millions, except per share data): Certain of our unvested restricted stock rights (including certain restricted stock units and performance shares) met the definition of participating securities as they participate in earnings based on their rights to dividends or dividend equivalents. Therefore, we are required to use the two-class method in our computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share. For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, on a weighted-average basis, we had outstanding unvested restricted stock rights with respect to 4 million and 10 million shares of common stock, respectively, that are participating in earnings. Certain of our employee-related restricted stock rights and options are contingently issuable upon the satisfaction of pre-defined performance measures. These shares are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period. Approximately 10 million and 4 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, as their respective performance measures had not yet been met. Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. Therefore, options to acquire 6 million shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. 12. Capital Transactions Repurchase Program On February3, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we may repurchase up to $750 millionof our common stock during the two-year period from February9, 2015 through February8, 2017. As of March31, 2016, we have not repurchased any shares under this program. 24 Dividends On February2, 2016, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on May11, 2016, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2016. As such, we have included $195 million of dividends payable in Accrued expense and other liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March31, 2016. On February3, 2015, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.23 per common share, payable on May13, 2015, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2015. On May13, 2015, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $167 million to such shareholders, and on May29, 2015, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock rights. 13. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims. SEC regulations govern disclosure of legal proceedings in periodic reports and FASB ASC Topic 450 governs the disclosure of loss contingencies and accrual of loss contingencies in respect of litigation and other claims. We record an accrual for a potential loss when it is probable that a loss will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. When the reasonable estimate of the potential loss is within a range of amounts, the minimum of the range of potential loss is accrued, unless a higher amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range. Moreover, even if an accrual is not required, we provide additional disclosure related to litigation and other claims when it is reasonably possible (i.e.,more than remote) that the outcomes of such litigation and other claims include potential material adverse impacts on us. The outcomes of legal proceedings and other claims are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of these matters, including the probability determination and whether a potential exposure can be reasonably estimated. In making these determinations, we, in consultation with outside counsel, examine the relevant facts and circumstances on a quarterly basis assuming, as applicable, a combination of settlement and litigated outcomes and strategies. Moreover, legal matters are inherently unpredictable and the timing of development of factors on which reasonable judgments and estimates can be based can be slow. As such, there can be no assurance that the final outcome of any legal matter will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability, cash flows or liquidity. King Initial Public Offering (the King IPO ) Matter Beginning on March17, 2015, purported securities class action lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Francisco, against King, certain of its directors and executive officers and underwriters of the King IPO.The lawsuits were brought by purported shareholders of King seeking to represent a class consisting of all those who purchased stock pursuant and/or traceable to the Registration Statement and Prospectus issued in connection with the King IPO.The lawsuits were consolidated. Plaintiffs assert claims under Sections 11, 12(a)(2)and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and seek unspecified damages and other relief.The court has set a trial date of May1, 2017. The Company has not recorded a liability in relation to these lawsuits and believes that the claims are without merit and intends to defend the lawsuits vigorously. 25 Other Matters In addition, we are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, such routine claims and lawsuits are not significant and we do not expect them to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 14. Acquisitions King Digital Entertainment plc On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ) we completed the King Acquisition under the terms of the Transaction Agreement, purchasing all of the outstanding shares of King for $18.00 cash per share. As a result, King became a wholly owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard. King is a leading interactive entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms such as Facebook and king.com websites. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly-complementary mobile business will position the Company as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console and PC platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. The aggregate purchase price of the King Acquisition was approximately $5.8 billion, which was paid on the King Closing Date and funded primarily with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. The total aggregate purchase price for King was comprised of (amounts in millions): (1) Represents the cash consideration paid based on $18.00 per share to common stock holders of King and the fair value of King s existing vested options and awards that were cash settled at the King Closing Date for the portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services. No future services are required. (2) Represents the fair value of King s existing vested and unvested stock options and awards that were assumed and replaced with Activision Blizzard equity or deferred cash awards. The purchase price includes the portion of fair value related to pre-combination services. The fair value of the options and awards assumed was determined using binomial-lattice and Monte Carlo models with the following assumptions: (a) volatility of 36%, (b) time varying risk free interest rates based on the U.S. Treasury yield curves, (c) an expected life ranging from approximately 0.1 years to 7.6 years, and (d) an expected dividend yield of 0.9%. See additional discussion under Stock-Based Compensation below. The Company identified and recorded assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values at the King Closing Date, and allocated the remaining value of approximately $2.7 billion to goodwill. The values assigned to certain acquired assets and liabilities are preliminary, are based on information available as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q, and may be adjusted as further information becomes available during the measurement period of up to 12 months from the date of the King Acquisition. Additional information may become available subsequently and may result in changes in the values allocated to various assets and liabilities, including, the fair value of identified intangible assets, deferred income taxes, and contingent liabilities. Any changes in the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the measurement period may result in material adjustments to goodwill. 26 The preliminary purchase price allocation was as follows (amounts in millions): During the three months ended March31, 2016 the Company incurred $34 million of expenses related to the King Acquisition which are included within General and administrative in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the debt financing that occurred on the King Closing Date, we incurred $38 million of issuance costs that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The amortization of these capitalized costs was not material to our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March31, 2016. Stock-Based Compensation In connection with the King Acquisition, a majority of the outstanding King options and awards that were unvested as of the King Closing Date were converted into equivalent options and awards, with respect to shares of the Company s common stock, using an equity award exchange ratio calculated in accordance with the Transaction Agreement. As a result, replacement equity options and awards of 10 million and 3 million, respectively, were issued in connection with the King Acquisition. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $76 million was included in the purchase price while the remaining fair value will be recognized over the remaining service periods. As of March31, 2016, the future expense for the converted King unvested options and awards was approximately $88 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 2.1 years. The remaining portion of outstanding unvested awards that were assumed were replaced with deferred cash awards. The cash proceeds were placed in an escrow-like account with the cash releases to occur based on the awards original vesting schedule upon future service being rendered. The cash associated with these awards is recorded in Other current assets and Other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $22 million was included in the purchase price while the remaining fair value of approximately $9 million will be recognized over the remaining service periods. A portion of the cash proceeds placed in an escrow-like account were released to award holders but the amount was not material. 27 Identifiable Intangible Assets Acquired and Goodwill The preliminary fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired from King were estimated using an income approach, with the exception of the customer base which was estimated using a cost approach. The fair value of the intangibles using the income approach was determined with the following key assumptions: (a)a weighted average cost of capital of 13%, (b)long-term revenue decay rates ranging from 0% to 65%, and (c)royalty rates ranging from 0.5% to 8%. The fair value of the intangibles using the cost approach was based on amounts that would be required to replace the asset (i.e. replacement cost). The Internally-developed franchises, Customer base, Developed software, and Trademark intangible assets will be amortized to Cost of Sales - intellectual property licenses, Sales and marketing, Cost of sales - software royalties and amortization, and General and administrative, respectively. The intangible assets will be amortized over their estimated useful lives in proportion to the economic benefits received. The $2.7 billion of goodwill recognized is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from accelerated expansion as an interactive entertainment provider in the mobile sector, future franchises and technology, as well as the management team s proven ability to create future games and franchises. Approximately $620 million of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes in the U.S. Contingent Liabilities Assumed As a result of the King Acquisition we assumed contingent liabilities related to contingent consideration associated with King s previous acquisitions of Nonstop Games Oy and Z2Live,Inc. The remaining contingent consideration for Non Stop Games Oy is linked to amounts generated from games launched by Nonstop Games over a specified period. The range of the potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Company could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is from $0 million up to $84 million. The remaining contingent consideration for Z2Live,Inc. is linked to amounts generated from specific games launched within a defined period. The potential range of undiscounted future payments that the Company could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is from $0 million up to $75 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement at the King Closing date for Nonstop Games Oy and Z2Live,Inc., was immaterial. King Net Revenue and Earnings The amount of net revenue and earnings attributable to King in the Company s condensed consolidated statement of operations during the three months ended March31, 2016 are included in the table below. The amounts presented represent the net revenues and earnings after adjustments for purchase price accounting, inclusive of amortization of intangible assets, share-based payments, and deferral of revenues and related cost of sales. Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations of the Company and King, on a pro forma basis, as though the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2015. The pro forma financial information presented includes the effects of adjustments related to amortization charges from acquired intangible assets, employee compensation from replacement equity awards issued in the King Acquisition and the profit sharing bonus plan established as part of the King Acquisition, and interest expense from the new debt, among other adjustments. We also adjusted for Activision Blizzard and King non-recurring acquisition related costs of approximately $60 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The pro forma financial information as presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the King Acquisition, and any borrowings undertaken to finance the King Acquisition, had taken place at the beginning of the earliest period presented, nor does it intend to be a projection of future results. 28 Major League Gaming,Inc. On December22, 2015, we acquired the business of Major League Gaming,Inc. ( MLG ), for an aggregate purchase price of $46 million in cash. MLG is a leader in creating and streaming premium live gaming events, organizing professional competitions, and running competitive gaming leagues. MLG s business operates under our Media Networks operating segment. The values assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities were finalized during the three months ended March31, 2016, and the final purchase price allocation for MLG remained unchanged from the amounts disclosed in Note 23 contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. Pro forma financial information has not been presented as the acquisition did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 15. Recently issued accounting pronouncements Revenue recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017, and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the adoption method as well as the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Stock-based compensation In June2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to stock compensation. The new standard requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the periods for which the requisite service has already been rendered. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Consolidations In February2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to consolidations. The new standard amends certain requirements for determining whether a variable interest entity must be consolidated. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 29 Debt Issuance Costs In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs in financial statements. The new standard requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. We adopted this change in accounting principle as of January1, 2016, and applied it retrospectively for each period presented. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Internal-Use Software In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to internal-use software. The new standard relates to a customer s accounting for fees paid in cloud computing arrangements. The amendment provides guidance for customers to determine whether such arrangements include software licenses. If a cloud arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. We adopted this standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements. Inventory In July2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016 and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Business Combinations In September2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to business combinations. The new standard requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement period adjustment, including the impact on prior periods, made to provisional amounts recorded at the acquisition date as a result of the business combination, be recognized in the reporting period the adjustment is identified. The standard also requires separate presentation on the face of the income statement, or disclosure in the notes, of the portion of the amount recorded in current period earnings by line item. Prior to the issuance of the standard, such adjustments to provisional amounts were recognized retrospectively. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. No measurement period adjustments occurred as of and for the three months ended March31, 2016. Financial Instruments In January2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, amongst other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income, and simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017 and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amendments related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) should be applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 30 Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, amongst other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either a finance or operating lease in which lessees will need to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment, such as for initial direct costs. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Share-Based Payments In March2016, the FASB issued new guidance in an effort to simplify accounting for share-based payments. The new standard, amongst other things: will require that all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the statement of operations and that the tax effects of exercised or vested awards should be treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur; will require excess tax benefits from share-based payments to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows; and permits an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate, as currently required, or account for forfeitures when they occur. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 31 Item2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview Activision Blizzard,Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc. and its subsidiaries. Activision Blizzard is the result of the 2008 business combination ( Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision,Inc., VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), VGACLLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGACLLC. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. As of March31, 2016, we had approximately 738 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. At that date: (i)ASAC II LP ( ASAC ), an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands, held 172 million shares, or approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (ii)our other stockholders held approximately 77% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of Directors, are affiliates of ASAC II LLC, the general partner of ASAC. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On November2, 2015, we and King Digital Entertainment, a leading interactive mobile entertainment company ( King ), entered into a Transaction Agreement (the Transaction Agreement ) under the terms of which we would acquire King (the King Acquisition ) and King would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On February23, 2016, (the King Closing Date ) we completed the King Acquisition under the terms of the Transaction Agreement and purchased all of the outstanding shares of King for $18.00 cash per share. The aggregate purchase price of King was approximately $5.8 billion, which was paid on the King Closing Date and funded with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly-complementary mobile business positions the Company as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. Reportable Segments Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable operating segments, Activision Publishing,Inc., Blizzard Entertainment,Inc., and King Digital Entertainment. (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision delivers content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults, and from core gamers to mass-market consumers, in a variety of geographies. Activision develops, markets, and sells products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, including games in the Call of Duty and Skylanders franchises, as well as some licensed properties. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe,Destiny. Activision currently offers games that operate on the Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ) Xbox One ( Xbox One ) and Xbox360 ( Xbox360 ), NintendoCo.Ltd. ( Nintendo ) Wii U ( Wii U ) and Wii ( Wii ), and Sony Computer Entertainment,Inc. ( Sony ) PlayStation 4 ( PS4 ) and PlayStation 3 ( PS3 ) console systems; the PC; the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Dual Screen, and Sony PlayStation Vita handheld game systems; and mobile and tablet devices. 32 (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ) is a leader in online PC gaming, including the subscription-based massively multi-player online role-playing game category in terms of both subscriber base and revenues generated through its World of Warcraft franchise. Blizzard also develops, markets, and sells role-playing action and strategy games for the PC, console, mobile, and tablet platforms, including games in the multiple-award winning Diablo , StarCraft , Hearthstone : Heroes of Warcraft , and Heroes of the Storm franchises. In addition, Blizzard maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Battle.net , which facilitates digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid subscription cards; in-game purchases and services; retail sales of physical boxed products; online download sales of PC products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile, and tablet platforms; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. (iii)King Digital Entertainment plc King Digital Entertainment is a leading interactive mobile entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms such as Android and iOS along with games that can be played on Facebook and king.com websites. King has four category-leading free-to-play franchises: Candy Crush , Farm Heroes , Bubble Witch , and Pet Rescue , where monetization occurs through players purchasing in-game virtual currency which can be used in-game to buy virtual items. (iv)Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: The Activision Blizzard Media Networks ( Media Networks ) business that is devoted to eSports that builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver the best-in-class fan experience across games, platforms, and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments, and premium content. The Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business that is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our extensive library of iconic and globally-recognized intellectual properties. The Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business that consists of operations in Europe which provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Business Highlights For the three months ended March31, 2016, Activision Blizzard had net revenues of $1.5 billion, as compared to net revenues of $1.3 billion for the same period in 2015. For the three months ended March31, 2016, Activision Blizzard had earnings per diluted share of $0.45, as compared to earnings per diluted share of $0.53 for the same period in 2015. For the three months ended March31, 2016, as a result of the King Acquisition, our net revenues and net income include $183 million and $(50) million from King s operations, respectively, after adjustments for purchase price accounting, inclusive of amortization of intangible assets, share-based payments, and deferral of revenues and related cost of sales. Our earnings under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) are expected to be down versus prior-year as the expected results will be impacted by accounting charges associated with the King Acquisition, which include, among other things, integration and acquisition-related costs, the amortization of intangible assets resulting from purchase price accounting adjustments, share-based payments, and the related tax impact from the King Acquisition. The majority of these GAAP accounting charges will not impact the economics or operating cash flows of our business, although they will have a material impact on our 2016 GAAP results. 33 On February2, 2016, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on May11, 2016, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2016. Activision Blizzard Recent and Upcoming Product Releases We have recently released the following titles and games, among other titles: King released Candy Crush Jelly Saga , the latest installment in the Candy Crush franchise, in January 2016. Activision released Call of Duty: Black Ops III Awakening , the first downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Black Ops III, on the PS4 on February 2, 2016 and on other platforms on March 3, 2016. Activision released Call of Duty: Black Ops III Eclipse , the second downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Black Ops III, on the PS4 on April 19, 2016, and is expected to be released on other platforms in May 2016. On April 26, 2016, Blizzard released Whispers of the Old Gods , the third expansion to Hearthstone : Heroes of Warcraft . On May 24, 2016, Blizzard expects to release Overwatch , its upcoming team-based first-person shooter. Monthly Active Users ( MAUs ) We monitor MAUs as a key measure of the overall size of our user base and its regular engagement with our portfolio of games. MAUs are the number of individuals who played a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing by the number of months in the period.An individual who plays two of our games would be counted as two users.In addition, due to technical limitations for Activision and King MAUs, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users.For Blizzard MAUs, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as one user. The number of MAUs for a given period can be significantly impacted by the timing of new content releases, since new releases can cause a temporary surge in MAUs. Accordingly, although we believe that overall trending in the number of MAUs can be a meaningful performance metric, period-to-period fluctuations may not be indicative of longer-term trends. The following table details our average MAUs on a sequential quarterly basis for our reportable segments (amounts in millions): 34 Average MAUs increased by 14 million, or 3%, for the quarter ended March31, 2016 as compared to the quarter ended December31, 2015. Activision s and Blizzard s average MAUs were flat quarter-over-quarter, and the increase in King s average MAUs was primarily due to the release of Candy Crush Jelly Saga. Average MAUs decreased by 77million, or 12%, for the quarter ended March31, 2016 as compared to the quarter ended March31, 2015. Activision s and Blizzard s average MAUs grew year-over-year, given the strength of the franchise portfolio, and King s average MAUs declined year-over-year due to the performance of more mature titles. Management s Overview of Business Trends Digital Online Channel Revenues We provide our products through both retail and digital distribution channels. Many of our video games that are available through retailers as physical boxed software products are also available digitally (from our websites and from websites and digital distribution channels owned by third parties). In addition, we offer players digital downloadable content as add-ons to our products (e.g., new multi-player content packs or in-game microtransaction purchases), generally for a one-time fee. We also offer subscription-based services and other value-added services forWorld of Warcraft, all of which are digitally delivered and hosted by Battle.net. We currently define sales via digital online channels as revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, licensing royalties, value-added services, downloadable content, microtransaction purchases, and products. This definition may differ from that used by our competitors or other companies. According to Activision Blizzard internal estimates, overall industry digital gaming revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016 increased by approximately 19% as compared to the same period in 2015, with mobile growth at 27%. The primary drivers of the increase in digital gaming revenues were increases in microtransaction purchases and consumer purchases of full games via digital channels. In addition to increasing microtransaction purchases within free-to-play games, the increase includes microtransaction purchases within purchased game software, as publishers offer increasingly new opportunities for monetization within their games to extend and enlarge the monetization cycle. Digital revenues are an important part of our business, and we continue to focus on and develop products, such as downloadable content, that can be delivered via digital channels. The amount of our digital revenues in any period may fluctuate depending, in part, on the timing and nature of our specific product releases. Our sales of digital downloadable content are driven in part by sales of, and engagement by players in, our retail products. As such, lower revenues in our retail distribution channels in the current year may impact our revenues through digital online channels in the subsequent year. For the three months ended March31, 2016, revenues through digital online channels increased by $345 million, as compared to the same period in 2015, and represented 64% of our total consolidated net revenues, as compared to 45% for the same period in 2015. On a non-GAAP basis (which excludes the impact of deferred revenues), revenues through digital online channels for the three months ended March31, 2016 increased by $259 million, as compared to the same period in 2015, and represented 88% of our total non-GAAP net revenues, as compared to 76% for the same period in 2015. Refer to the reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP digital online channel revenues under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. 35 Concentration of Top Titles The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive software industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 33% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2015. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues has historically been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises and these video games were responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, the Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, Skylanders, and Destiny franchises combined accounted for 71% of our consolidated net revenues, and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income, for 2015. As a result, successful competition against these titles can significantly impact our performance. Notably, the toys-to-life category has become more competitive with a new entrant competing directly with us and other incumbents. We are continually exploring additional investments in existing and future franchises. During 2015, we releasedHeroes of the Storm, as well asCall of Duty Onlinein China. In the fourth quarter of 2015,we releasedOverwatchinto closed beta with an anticipated game release of May24, 2016. There is no guarantee that these franchises will become key franchises. Additionally, on February23, 2016, we completed the King Acquisition, diversifying our portfolio of key franchises and increasing our presence in the mobile market. In this market, we see similar concentration of key titles accounting for a disproportionate amount of digital sales. According to the U.S. ranking for the Apple App Store, per App Annie Intelligence, seven titles remained in the top 10 ranking of gross sales for all four quarters during 2015. Overall, we do expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our, and the industry s, revenues and profits in the near future. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data The following table sets forth consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated in dollars and as a percentage of total net revenues (amounts in millions): 36 Operating Segment Results Our operating segments are consistent with our internal organizational structure, the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ), the manner in which we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments. The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of sales with respect to certain of our online-enabled games, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting, and fees and other expenses related to financings and acquisitions. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Information on the operating segments and reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 are presented in the table below (amounts in millions): (1) Other includes other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Media Networks, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Other also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses related to the King Acquisition, inclusive of related debt financings. 37 Segment Net Revenues Activision Activision s net revenues increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise. Blizzard Blizzard s net revenues decreased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to lower revenues from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base and lower revenues from Heroes of the Storm due to the prior year including revenues from the release of the Founders Pack. These decreases were partially offset by increased revenue from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft which was benefited by its release on iPhone and Android smartphones in April2015. King King s net revenues represent the net revenues from the King Closing Date through March31, 2016. The revenues were primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise, which included the release of Candy Crush Jelly Saga in January2016. Segment Income from Operations Activision Activision s operating income increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues and an increased percentage of revenues coming from online digital channels, which typically have higher margins. This is partially offset by higher product development spending from increased bonuses to studio personnel. Blizzard Blizzard s operating income decreased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to lower revenues as well as higher spending on sales and marketing activity to support current and upcoming releases. These were partially offset by lower product development costs due to capitalization of software costs associated with the timing of title releases. King King s operating income represents the operating income from the King Closing Date through March31, 2016. 38 Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $14 million on Activision Blizzard s segment net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the same periods in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the United States ( U.S. ) dollar relative to the euro and British pound. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The analysis of revenues by distribution channel is presented both on a GAAP (including the impact from the change in deferred revenues) and non-GAAP (excluding the impact from the change in deferred revenues) basis. We use this non-GAAP measure internally when evaluating our operating performance; when planning, forecasting, and analyzing future periods; and when assessing the performance of our management team. We believe this is appropriate because this non-GAAP measure enables an analysis of performance based on the timing of actual transactions with our customers, which is consistent with the way the Company is measured by investment analysts and industry data sources, and facilitates comparison of operating performance between periods. In addition, excluding the impact from the change in deferred net revenues provides a much more timely indication of trends in our sales and other operating results. While we believe that this non-GAAP measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or as more important than, the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as any non-GAAP measure presented by another company. This non-GAAP financial measure has limitations in that it does not reflect all of the items associated with our GAAP revenues. We compensate for the limitations resulting from the exclusion of the change in deferred revenues by considering the impact of that item separately and by considering our GAAP, as well as non-GAAP, revenues. The following table provides reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP net revenues by distribution channel for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): (1) We define revenues from digital online channels as revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, licensing royalties, value-added services, downloadable content, micro-transactions, and products. (2) Net revenues from Other include revenues from our Media Networks, Studios, and Distribution businesses. (3) We have determined that some of our titles online functionality represents an essential component of gameplay and as a result, represents a more-than inconsequential separate deliverable. As such, we recognize revenues attributed to these titles over the estimated service periods, which are generally less than one year. In the table above, we present the amount of net revenues for each period as a result of this accounting treatment. (4) Total non-GAAP net revenues presented also represents our total segment net revenues. 39 Digital Online Channel Net Revenues The increase in GAAP net revenues from digital online channels for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily due to: new revenues from King titles following the King Closing Date, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise; higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft; higher revenues from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014; and higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise due to the strong digital performance of Destiny: The Taken King, which was released in September2015, and in-game microtransaction purchases which were debuted in Destiny in the fourth quarter of 2015. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base. The increase in non-GAAP net revenues from digital online channels for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily due to new revenues from King titles following the King Closing Date, and higher revenues from Call of Duty: Black Ops III and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base and lower revenues from Heroes of the Storm due to the prior year including revenues from the release of the Founders Pack. Retail Channel Net Revenues The decrease in GAAP net revenues from retail channels for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise asDestinydebuted in the third quarter of 2014, with no comparable full-game release in 2015, and lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise. This was partially offset by higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014. The decrease in non-GAAP net revenues from retail channels for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily due to lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise. This was partially offset by higher revenues from Call of Duty: Black Ops III as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare. 40 Consolidated Results Net Revenues by Geographic Region The following table details our consolidated net revenues by geographic region for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by geographic region for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (amounts in millions): In all regions, net revenues increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: new revenues from King titles following the King Closing Date, with the revenues primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise; higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014; and higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. These were partially offset by: lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise asDestinydebuted in September2014 and had no comparable full-game release in 2015; lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base and the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November 2014 with no comparable release in 2015; lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise; and lower revenues recognized from the Diablo III franchise due to the timing of title releases. In Americas and Europe, the decrease in deferred revenues recognized for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily attributed to lower deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise due to the timing of the full game release and lower deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft, primarily associated with World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor and value-added services. This was partially offset by increased deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. In Asia Pacific, the increase in deferred revenues recognized for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily attributed to increased deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $21 million on our consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the same period in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and British pound. 41 Net Revenues by Platform The following tables detail our net revenues by platform and as a percentage of total consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by platform for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from PC includes revenues that were historically shown as Online. (2) Net revenues from mobile and ancillary includes revenues from handheld, mobile, and tablet devices, as well as non-platform specific game-related revenues such as standalone sales of toys and accessories products from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (3) Net revenues from Other include revenues from our Media Networks, Studios, and Distribution businesses. (4) The percentages of total are presented as calculated. Therefore the sum of these percentages, as presented, may differ due to the impact of rounding. Net revenues from console remained relatively flat for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014, and revenues recognized from Guitar Hero Live , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015 with no comparable release in 2014. These increases were offset by lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise as Destiny debuted in the third quarter of 2014 with no comparable full-game release in 2015, and lower revenues from the Diablo III franchise due to the timing of title releases. 42 Net revenues from PC increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, revenues recognized from StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and new revenues from King titles following the King Closing Date. These were partially offset by lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base and the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in the fourth quarter of 2014 with no comparable release in 2015. Net revenues from mobile and ancillary increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to new revenues from King titles following the King Closing Date, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise, and higher revenues recognized from the release of Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft on iPhone and Android smartphones in April2015. These were partially offset by lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise. Deferred revenues recognized from console decreased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to lower deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise due to the timing of the full game release and lower revenues recognized from the Diablo III franchise due to the timing of title releases. Deferred revenues recognized from PC increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, deferred revenues recognized from Heroes of the Storm, which launched in the second quarter of 2015, and deferred revenues recognized from StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015. These were partially offset by lower deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft. Deferred revenues recognized from mobile and ancillary increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. This was partially offset by additional deferrals of revenue from King titles, most notably the Candy Crush franchise. Costs and Expenses Cost of Sales The following tables detail the components of cost of sales in dollars and as a percentage of total consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): Costs of sales product costs includes the cost of goods produced and sold during the reporting period along with platform provider fees. Cost of sales online includes costs to operate our games, such as customer service, internet bandwidth fees, and our payment provider fees. Cost of sales software royalties and amortization includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties. Cost of sales intellectual property licenses includes the costs and amortization associated with intellectual property licenses expensed over the expected benefit period. 43 Total cost of sales for the three months ended March31, 2016, increased as compared to the same period in 2015, reflective of the increase in consolidated net revenues. Cost of sales product costs increased primarily due to the mobile platform fees associated with revenues from King, along with products costs from Guitar Hero Live, which had no comparable costs in the prior year. These were partially offset by decreases in product costs due to the relative increase in Activision s revenues coming from the digital online channel, which has relatively lower product costs, and lower product costs from the Skylanders franchise due to lower franchise revenues. Cost of sales online increased primarily due to increased expenditures to support our growing online activity across our titles and the online costs associated with supporting the revenues from King titles. Cost of sales intellectual property licenses increased primarily due to the amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition, along with intellectual properly license fees associated with content in Guitar Hero Live, which had no comparable cost in the prior year. Product Development (amounts in millions) Product development costs increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily from product development costs associated with King s titles, along with increased product development costs from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily related to studio personnel bonuses. These were partially offset by decreased Blizzard product development costs due to the timing of cost capitalizations. Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions) Sales and marketing costs increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily driven by the amortization of the customer base intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition, sales and marketing spending to support King s titles, and increased spending on sales and marketing activity to support current and upcoming Blizzard releases. These increases were partially offset by lower spend on Guitar Hero Live. General and Administrative (amounts in millions) General and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher professional and transaction related fees associated with the King Acquisition, which closed on February23, 2016, and King s general and administrative costs, included following that closing. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions) 44 Interest and other expense (income), net, did not significantly change for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the same periods in 2015. Income Tax Expense (amounts in millions) The Company accounts for its provision for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year. The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits, state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. The income tax expense of $73 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 reflects an effective tax rate of 18%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 20% for the three months ended March31, 2015. This decrease is the result of an incremental tax benefit included in the three months ended March31, 2016 due to the mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates as compared to domestic earnings and the net benefit related to the settlement of a historical audit, partially offset by certain nondeductible costs incurred during the quarter. The effective tax rate of 18% for the three months ended March31, 2016 differed from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, the net benefit related to the settlement of a historical audit, recognition of federal and California research and development credits, and federal domestic production deductions, partially offset by certain nondeductible costs incurred during the quarter and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The overall effective income tax rate for the year will be dependent, in part, on our profitability for the remainder of the year, as well as the other factors described above. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) is currently examining Activision Blizzard s federal tax returns for the 2009 through 2011 tax years. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company transitioned the review of its transfer pricing methodology from the advanced pricing agreement review process to the IRS examination team. Their review could result in a different allocation of profits and losses under the Company s transfer pricing agreements. Such allocation could have a positive or negative impact on our provision for uncertain tax positions for the period in which such a determination is reached and the relevant periods thereafter. In addition, as part of the purchase price accounting, the Company assumed $77 million of uncertain tax positions primarily related to the transfer pricing of King tax years occurring prior to the King Acquisition. The Company is currently in negotiations with the relevant jurisdictions and the taxing authorities which could result in a different allocation of profits and losses between the relevant jurisdictions. In addition, Vivendi Games tax year 2008 remains open to examination by the major taxing authorities. In addition, Vivendi Games tax return for the 2008 tax year is before the Appeals function of the IRS and is under examination by several state taxing authorities. While Vivendi Games results for the period January1, 2008 through July9, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state, and local income tax returns filed by Vivendi or its affiliates, Vivendi Games results for the period July10, 2008 through December31, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state, and local income tax returns filed by Activision Blizzard. Additionally, the Company has several state and non-U.S. audits pending. 45 The final resolution of the Company s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution of the Company s global tax disputes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in the period in which the matters are ultimately resolved. In 2013, in connection with a share repurchase from Vivendi (the Purchase Transaction ), we assumed certain tax attributes, generally consisting of net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards of approximately $760 million, which represent a potential future tax benefit of approximately $266 million. The utilization of such NOL carryforwards will be subject to certain annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2021. The Company also obtained indemnification from Vivendi against losses attributable to the disallowance of claimed utilization of such NOL carryforwards of up to $200 million in unrealized tax benefits in the aggregate, limited to taxable years ending on or prior to December31, 2016. No benefit for these tax attributes or indemnification was recorded upon the close of the share repurchase. For the three months ended March31, 2016, we utilized $184 million of the NOL, which resulted in a tax benefit of $64 million, and a corresponding reserve of $64 million was established. As of March31, 2016, an indemnification asset of $171 million has been recorded in Other Assets, and, correspondingly, the same amount has been recorded as a reduction to the consideration paid for the shares repurchased in Treasury Stock (see Note1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details about the share repurchase). Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions) Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities The primary drivers of cash flows provided by operating activities typically include the collection of customer receivables generated by the sale of our products and digital and subscription revenues, partially offset by payments to vendors for the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of our products, payments for customer service support for our gamers, payments to third-party developers and intellectual property holders, payments for interest on our debt, payments for software development, payments for tax liabilities, and payments to our workforce. 46 Cash flows provided by operating activities were higher for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to adjustments to net income for non-cash charges, including amortization of intangible assets and adjustments to deferred income taxes associated with the King Acquisition, along with increased operating cash flows from King s operations. These were partially offset by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities The primary drivers of cash flows used in investing activities typically include the net effect of capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions. Cash flows used in investing activities were $1.1 billion for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to $16 million for the three months ended March31, 2015. The increase in the cash used was primarily due to the $2.2 billion cash outflow for the King Acquisition in excess of the cash already in escrow, net of the $1.15 billion cash acquired. Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Financing Activities The primary drivers of cash flows used in financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt, and transactions involving our common stock, such as the issuance of shares of common stock to employees, the repurchase of our common stock and the payment of dividends. Cash flows provided by financing activities were higher during the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to $2.6 billion of proceeds received from debt financing. These were partially offset by higher partial repayment of our Term Loan in 2016 of $750 million, as compared to the $250 million partial repayment of our Term Loan in 2015, and payment of debt discount and financing costs. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are typically cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities. In addition, as described below, we have availability of $250 million, subject to certain restrictions, under a secured revolving credit facility. With our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.9 billion at March31, 2016, and expected cash flows provided by operating activities, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet daily operations in the foreseeable future. We also believe that we have sufficient working capital ($1.7 billion at March31, 2016) to finance our operational and financing requirements for at least the next twelve months, including: purchases of inventory and equipment; the development, production, marketing, and sale of new products; provision of customer service for our subscribers; acquisition of intellectual property rights for future products from third parties; and payments related to debt obligations. As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $1.3 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. If the cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. is needed in the future for our operations in the U.S., we would accrue and pay the required U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. 47 Debt Unsecured Notes On September19, 2013, we issued, at par, $1.5 billion of 5.625% unsecured senior notes due September2021 (the 2021 Notes ) and $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September2023 (the 2023 Notes and, together with the 2021 Notes, the Notes ). Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March15 and September15 of each year, commencing on March15, 2014. As of March31, 2016, the Notes had a carrying value of $2.25 billion. We may redeem the 2021 Notes on or after September15, 2016 and the 2023 Notes on or after September15, 2018, in whole or in part on any one or more occasions, at specified redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest. At any time prior to September15, 2016, with respect to the 2021 Notes, and at any time prior to September15, 2018, with respect to the 2023 Notes, we may also redeem some or all of the Notes by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of one or more qualified equity offerings, we may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of each of the 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes outstanding with the net cash proceeds from such offerings. The Notes are repayable, in whole or in part and at the option of the holders, upon the occurrence of a change in control and a ratings downgrade, at a purchase price equal to 101% of principal, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Credit Facilities Term Loan. On October 11, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) for a $2.5 billion secured term loan facility maturing in October 2020 (the Term Loan ), and a $250 million secured revolving credit facility (the Original Revolver ). A portion of the Original Revolver could be used to issue letters of credit of up to $50 million, subject to the availability of the Original Revolver. As of March31, 2016, the outstanding balance of our Term Loan was $1.1 billion. Borrowings under the Term Loan and bear interest at an annual rate equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, (A)a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (a)the interest rate in effect determined by the administrative agent as its prime rate, (b)the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, and (c)the London InterBank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, or (B)LIBOR.Further, LIBOR borrowings under the Term Loan are subject to a LIBOR floor of 0.75%. At March31, 2016, the Term Loan bore interest at 3.25%. In certain circumstances, our interest rate under the Term Loan will increase. In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal balances under the Term Loan, we were required to pay the lenders a commitment fee on unused commitments under the Original Revolver. We are also required to pay customary letter of credit fees and agency fees. The terms of the Credit Agreement require quarterly principal repayments of 0.25% of the Term Loan s original principal amount, with the balance due on the maturity date. On February11, 2014, we made a voluntary repayment of $375 million on our Term Loan. This repayment satisfied the required quarterly principal repayments for the entire term of the Credit Agreement. On February11, 2015, we made an additional voluntary repayment of $250 million on our Term Loan. On February25, 2016 and March31, 2016, we made additional voluntary repayments of $500 million and $250 million, respectively, on our Term Loan. The 2016 repayments reduced our expected future contractual interest payments by approximately $16 million annually, based on the interest rate of 3.25% at March31, 2016. Amounts borrowed under the Term Loan and repaid may not be re-borrowed. TrancheA Term Loans. In conjunction with the King Acquisition, the Company entered into three Amendments to the Credit Agreement (the Amendments ). The Amendments, among other things, provided for incremental term loans in the form of Tranche A Term Loans in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.3 billion. The proceeds were issued and provided on February 23, 2016, upon successful closing of the King Acquisition and were used to fund the King Acquisition. On March 31, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to the Credit Agreement which provided for an incremental Tranche A Term Loan in the aggregate principal amount of $250 million, of which the total proceeds from the incremental borrowing were used to make the voluntary prepayment on our Term Loan discussed above. 48 The TrancheA Term Loans are scheduled to mature on October11, 2020 and bear interest, at the Company s option, at either (a)a base rate equal to the highest of (i)the federal funds rate, plus 0.5%, (ii)the prime commercial lending rate of Bank of America, N.A., and (iii)the LIBOR for an interest period of one month beginning on such day plus 1.00%, or (b)LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable interest margin. LIBOR is subject to a floor of 0% and the base rate is subject to an effective floor of 1.00%. The applicable interest margin for TrancheA Term Loans ranges from 1.50% to 2.25% for LIBOR borrowings and from 0.50% to 1.25% for base rate borrowings and is determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Company s Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The TrancheA Term Loans require quarterly principal payments of 0.625% of the stated principal amount of the TrancheA Term Loans commencing on June30, 2016, with increases to 1.250% starting on June30, 2019 and 3.125% starting on June30, 2020, with the remaining balance payable on the TrancheA Term Loans scheduled maturity date of October11, 2020. Voluntary prepayments of the TrancheA Term Loans are permitted at any time, in minimum principal amounts, without premium or penalty. The TrancheA Term Loans are subject to a financial maintenance covenant requiring the Company to maintain a maximum Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 4.00 to 1.00, which will decrease to 3.50 to 1.00 (I)after the sixth full fiscal quarter after the TrancheA Term Loans are made or (II)if the Collateral Suspension occurs prior to the date falling 18months after the TrancheA Term Loans are made, on the later of (x)the last day of the fourth full fiscal quarter after the TrancheA Term Loans are made and (y)the last day of the fiscal quarter in which the Collateral Suspension occurs. The TrancheA Term Loans are secured by the same collateral and guaranteed by the same guarantors that secure and guarantee the Term Loan. The other terms of the TrancheA Term Loans are also generally the same as the terms of the Term Loan. At March31, 2016, the Tranche A Term Loans bore interest at 2.43%. In certain circumstances, our applicable interest rate under the Tranche A Term Loans will increase. 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. As part of the Amendments, upon the closing of the King Acquisition, the Company s Original Revolver under the Credit Agreement in an aggregate principal amount of $250 million was replaced with a new revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement in the same aggregate principal amount (the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility, and, together with the Term Loan and Tranche A Term Loans, the Credit Facilities ). Borrowings under the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed by the Company and are available for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Up to $50million of the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility may be used for letters of credit. The 2015 Revolving Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on October11, 2020. Borrowings under the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company s option, under the same terms as the TrancheA Term Loans. Additionally, the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility is subject to the same financial maintenance covenant and is secured by the same collateral and guaranteed by the same guarantors that secure and guarantee the TrancheA Term Loans. The other terms of the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility are generally the same as the terms of the Original Revolver. To date, we have not drawn on the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. Fees associated with the closing of the Term Loan, Tranche A Term Loans, and the Notes are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective the carrying values, and is amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. In connection with the debt financing for the King Acquisition, we incurred $38 million of issuance costs that were capitalized and recorded within Long term debt, net in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The amortization of these capitalized costs was not material to our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March31, 2016. 49 Agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the Notes and the Credit Agreement, impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities under certain conditions. These restrictions may require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios. In addition, the indenture and the Credit Agreement limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt or make additional guarantees; pay distributions or dividends and repurchase stock; make other restricted payments, including without limitation, certain restricted investments; create liens; enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; engage in transactions with affiliates; and enter into mergers, consolidations or sales of substantially all of our assets. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Notes and Credit Facilities as of March31, 2016. Debt Repayments On February2, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized net debt repayments of up to $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt during 2016. As of March31, 2016, we have made prepayments to reduce our total outstanding term loans by $500 million. Capital Expenditures For the year ending December31, 2016, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $155million, primarily for computer hardware and software purchases. During the first three months of 2016, we made aggregate capital expenditures of $27 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, Activision Blizzard had no significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Financial Disclosure We maintain internal control over financial reporting, which generally includes those controls relating to the preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S.GAAP ). We also are focused on our disclosure controls and procedures, which as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), are generally those controls and procedures designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rulesand forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including our principal executive and financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our Disclosure Committee, which operates under the Board of Directors-approved Disclosure Committee Charter and Disclosure Controls& Procedures Policy, includes senior management representatives and assists executive management in its oversight of the accuracy and timeliness of our disclosures, as well as in implementing and evaluating our overall disclosure process. As part of our disclosure process, senior finance and operational representatives from all of our corporate divisions and business units prepare quarterly reports regarding their current-quarter operational performance, future trends, subsequent events, internal controls, changes in internal controls, and other accounting and disclosure relevant information. These quarterly reports are reviewed by certain key corporate finance executives. These corporate finance representatives also conduct quarterly interviews on a rotating basis with the preparers of selected quarterly reports. The results of the quarterly reports and related interviews are reviewed by the Disclosure Committee. Finance representatives also conduct interviews with our senior management team, our legal counsel and other appropriate personnel involved in the disclosure process, as appropriate. Additionally, senior finance and operational representatives provide internal certifications regarding the accuracy of information they provide that is utilized in the preparation of our periodic public reports filed with the SEC. Financial results 50 and other financial information also are reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory requirements, the principal executive and financial officers review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of our periodic public reports filed with the SEC, our disclosure controls and procedures, and our internal control over financial reporting. With the assistance of the Disclosure Committee, we will continue to assess and monitor, and make refinements to, our disclosure controls and procedures, and our internal control over financial reporting. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments, and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments, and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments, or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions, and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following: Revenue Recognition including Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables Allowances for Returns, Price Protection, Doubtful Accounts, and Inventory Obsolescence Software Development Costs and Intellectual Property Licenses Income Taxes Fair Value Estimates (including Business Combinations and Assessment of Impairment of Assets) Stock-Based Compensation During the three months ended March31, 2016, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates but we did expand the accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition to include virtual currency as noted below. Refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in PartII,Item7 of our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Microtransaction Revenues Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual goods and currencies to our players to enhance their gameplay experience. Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods and currencies are initially recorded in deferred revenues. Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as a player uses the virtual goods purchased with the virtual currency. We categorize our virtual goods as either consumable or durable. Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed. Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time. We recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player, generally the estimated service period of the game. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Revenue recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective 51 for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017 and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the adoption method as well as the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Stock-based compensation In June2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to stock compensation. The new standard requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the periods for which the requisite service has already been rendered. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Consolidations In February2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to consolidations. The new standard amends certain requirements for determining whether a variable interest entity must be consolidated. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Debt Issuance Costs In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs in financial statements. The new standard requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. We adopted this change in accounting principle as of January1, 2016, and applied it retrospectively for each period presented. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Internal-Use Software In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to internal-use software. The new standard relates to a customer s accounting for fees paid in cloud computing arrangements. The amendment provides guidance for customers to determine whether such arrangements include software licenses. If a cloud arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. We adopted this standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements. Inventory In July2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 52 Business Combinations In September2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to business combinations. The new standard requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement period adjustment, including the impact on prior periods, made to provisional amounts recorded at the acquisition date as a result of the business combination, be recognized in the reporting period the adjustment is identified. The standard also requires separate presentation on the face of the income statement, or disclosure in the notes, of the portion of the amount recorded in current period earnings by line item. Prior to the issuance of the standard, such adjustments to provisional amounts were recognized retrospectively. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. No measurement period adjustments occurred as of and for the three months ended March31, 2016. Financial Instruments In January2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, amongst other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income, and simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amendments related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) should be applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, amongst other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either a finance or operating lease in which lessees will need to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment, such as for initial direct costs. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Share-Based Payments In March2016, the FASB issued new guidance in an effort to simplify accounting for share-based payments. The new standard, amongst other things: will require that all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the statement of operations and that the tax effects of exercised or vested awards should be treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur; will require excess tax benefits from share-based payments to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows; and permits an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate, as currently required, or account for forfeitures when they occur. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 53Item 1. Financial Statements ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) (1) Excludes deferral and amortization of stock-based compensation expense. (2) Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of stock-based compensation expense. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY For the Six Months Ended June30, 2016 (Unaudited) (Amounts and shares in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation Activision Blizzard,Inc. ( Activision Blizzard ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc. and its subsidiaries. We currently offer games for video game consoles, personal computers ( PC ), and handheld, mobile, and tablet devices. We maintain significant operations in the United States ( U.S. ), Canada, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), France, Germany,Ireland,Italy, Sweden, Spain, the Netherlands, Australia, South Korea, and China. Activision Blizzard is the result of the 2008 business combination ( Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision,Inc., VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), VGACLLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGACLLC. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. As of December31, 2015, ASAC II LP ( ASAC ), an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands, held 172 million shares, or approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at that time. On June8, 2016, ASAC II LLC, the general partner of ASAC, distributed approximately 141 million shares allocable to the limited partners of ASAC in accordance with its limited partnership agreement to allow them to control the voting and ownership of such shares. We did not receive any proceeds from the distribution of the shares. Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of Directors, are affiliates of ASAC II LLC. As of June30, 2016, we had approximately 741 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. At that date (i)ASAC held 31 million shares, or approximately 4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (ii)our other stockholders held approximately 96% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On November2, 2015, we and King Digital Entertainmentplc ( King ), a leading interactive mobile entertainment company, entered into a transaction agreement (the Transaction Agreement ) under the terms of which we would acquire King (the King Acquisition ) and King would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On February23, 2016, we completed the King Acquisition, as further described in Note 14 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the operations of King commencing on February23, 2016. Reportable Segments Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable operating segments as follows: (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision delivers content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults, and from core gamers to mass-market consumers, in a variety of geographies. Activision develops, markets, and sells products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, including games in the Call of Duty and Skylanders franchises, as well as some licensed properties. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe,Destiny. Activision currently offers games that operate on the Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ) Xbox One ( Xbox One ) and Xbox360 ( Xbox360 ), NintendoCo.Ltd. ( Nintendo ) Wii U ( Wii U ) and Wii ( Wii ), and Sony Computer Entertainment,Inc. ( Sony ) PlayStation 4 ( PS4 ) and PlayStation 3 ( PS3 ) console systems; the PC; the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Dual Screen, and Sony PlayStation Vita handheld game systems; and mobile and tablet devices. 9 (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ) is a leader in online PC gaming, including the subscription-based massively multi-player online role-playing game category, in terms of both subscriber base and revenues generated through its World of Warcraft franchise. Blizzard also develops, markets, and sells role-playing action and strategy games for the PC, console, mobile and tablet platforms, including games in the multiple-award winning Diablo, StarCraft, Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft , and Heroes of the Storm franchises. On May24, 2016, Blizzard added a new franchise, Overwatch, a team-based first-person shooter available on the PC and console platforms. In addition, Blizzard maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Battle.net, which facilitates digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid subscription cards; in-game purchases and services; retail sales of physical boxed products; online download sales of PC products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile, and tablet platforms; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. (iii)King Digital Entertainment King Digital Entertainment is a leading interactive mobile entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms, such as Facebook and king.com websites. King has four established free-to-play franchises: Candy Crush , Farm Heroes , Bubble Witch , and Pet Rescue , where monetization occurs through players purchasing in-game virtual currency which can be used in-game to buy virtual items. (iv)Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: The Major League Gaming ( MLG ) business (which we formerly referred to as Activision Blizzard Media Networks or Media Networks), which is devoted to eSports and builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver the best-in-class fan experience across games, platforms, and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments, and premium content. The Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our extensive library of iconic and globally-recognized intellectual properties. The Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Basis of Consolidation and Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) for interim reporting. Accordingly, certain notes or other information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted if they substantially duplicate the disclosures contained in the annual audited consolidated financial statements. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. 10 The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for the fair statement of our financial position and results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been included in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company considers events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued, to provide additional evidence relative to certain estimates or to identify matters that require additional disclosures. Cost of revenues presentation In periods prior to the three months ended June30, 2016, we presented cost of revenues in our consolidated statements of operations in four financial statement captions: Cost of sales product costs, Cost of sales online, Cost of sales software royalties and amortization, and Cost of sales intellectual property licenses. In our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, we revised the presentation to more clearly align our costs of revenues with the associated revenue captions as follows: Cost of revenues - product sales: (i) Product costs - includes the manufacturing costs of goods produced and sold during the reporting period. These generally include product costs, manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts, personnel-related costs, warehousing, and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones). (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses - includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to product sales revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to product sales revenues. Cost of revenues - subscription, licensing, and other revenues: (i) Game operations and distribution costs - includes costs to operate our games, such as customer service, internet bandwidth and server costs, platform provider fee, and payment provider fees. (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses - includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to subscription, licensing and other revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to subscription, licensing and other revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies During the six months ended June30, 2016, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies but we did expand the accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition to include virtual currency as noted below. Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 for our full summary of significant accounting policies. 11 Microtransaction Revenues Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual goods and currencies to our players to enhance their gameplay experience. Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods and currencies are initially recorded in deferred revenues. Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as a player uses the virtual goods purchased with the virtual currency. We categorize our virtual goods as either consumable or durable. Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed. Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time. We recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player, which is generally the estimated service period of the game. Supplemental Cash Flow Information: Non-cash investing and financing activities For the six months ended June30, 2016, we had non-cash purchase price consideration of $89 million related to vested and unvested stock options and awards that were assumed and replaced with Activision Blizzard equity or deferred cash awards in the King Acquisition. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion. 2. Inventories, Net Our inventories, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): At June30, 2016, and December31, 2015, inventory reserves were $59 million and $54 million, respectively. 3. Software Development and Intellectual Property Licenses The following table summarizes the components of our capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses (amounts in millions): 12 Intellectual property licenses are classified within Other current assets and Other assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Amortization of capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses was the following (amounts in millions): 4. Intangible Assets, Net Intangible assets, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): 13 The balances of intangible assets, net presented in the table above at June30, 2016, does not include license agreement intangible assets that were fully amortized at December31, 2015, and hence have been removed from the June30, 2016, balances as presented. Amortization expense of intangible assets was $203 million and $285 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. Amortization expense of intangible assets was $2 million and $3 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2015, respectively. At June30, 2016, future amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is estimated as follows (amounts in millions): 5. Goodwill The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment for the six months ended June30, 2016, are as follows (amounts in millions): Other includes tax benefits credited to goodwill for tax deductions resulting from the exercise of stock options that were outstanding and vested at the consummation of the Business Combination and included in the purchase price of the Company, to the extent that the tax deduction did not exceed the fair value of those options. Conversely, to the extent that the tax deduction did exceed the fair value of those options, the tax benefit is credited to additional paid-in capital. Other also includes the impact to goodwill from changes in foreign exchange rates. 14 The addition to goodwill through acquisition is attributed to the King Acquisition (see Note14 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). 6. Fair Value Measurements Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) literature regarding fair value measurements for financial and non-financial assets and liabilities establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. This hierarchy requires entities to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis The table below segregates all financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis into the most appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine the fair value at the measurement date (amounts in millions): 15 ARS represented the only level3 investment held by the Company. There were no changes in the fair value of these investments for the six months ended June30, 2016. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges For foreign currency forward contracts entered into to mitigate risk from foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings that are not designated as hedging instruments in accordance with FASB Accounting Standard Codification ( ASC ) Topic 815, changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives are recorded within General and administrative expenses and Interest and other expense (income), net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, consistent with the nature of the underlying transactions. At June30, 2016, the gross notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges was approximately $260 million. The fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts was $6 million as of June30, 2016, and recorded in Other current assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December31, 2015, the gross notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges was approximately $489 million. The fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts was $11 million as of December31, 2015, and recorded in Other current assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were not material. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges For foreign currency forward contracts entered into to hedge forecasted intercompany cash flows that are subject to foreign currency risk and which we designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with ASC Topic 815, we assess the effectiveness of these cash flow hedges at inception and on an ongoing basis to determine if the hedges are effective at providing offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. We record the effective portion of changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassify the related amount of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings within General and administrative expense when the hedged item impacts earnings. Cash flows from these foreign currency forward contracts are classified in the same category as the cash flows associated with the hedged item in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We measure hedge ineffectiveness, if any, and if it is determined that a derivative has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, we will discontinue hedge accounting for the derivative. 16 The gross notional amount of all outstanding foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges was approximately $443 million at June30, 2016, and $381 million at December31, 2015. These foreign currency forward contracts have remaining maturities of 12 months or less. During the three and six months ended June30, 2016, and 2015, there was no ineffectiveness relating to these hedges. At June30, 2016, $1 million of net unrealized gains or losses related to these contracts are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. During the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, the amount pre-tax net realized gains reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) due to maturity of these contracts was not material. Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016, and 2015, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis. 7. Debt Credit Facilities Term Loan. On October 11, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) for a $2.5 billion secured term loan facility maturing in October 2020 (the Term Loan ), and a $250 million secured revolving credit facility (the Original Revolver ). A portion of the Original Revolver could be used to issue letters of credit of up to $50 million, subject to the availability of the Original Revolver. Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest, payable on a quarterly basis, at an annual rate equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, (A)a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (a)the interest rate in effect determined by the administrative agent as its prime rate, (b)the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, and (c)the London InterBank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, or (B)LIBOR.LIBOR borrowings under the Term Loan are subject to a LIBOR floor of 0.75%. At June30, 2016, the Term Loan bore interest at 3.25%. In certain circumstances, our applicable interest rate under the Term Loan will increase. In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal balances under the Term Loan, we were required to pay the lenders a commitment fee on unused commitments under the Original Revolver. Commitment fees are recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. We are also required to pay customary letter of credit fees, if any, and agency fees. The terms of the Credit Agreement require quarterly principal repayments of 0.25% of the Term Loan s original principal amount, with the balance due on the maturity date. On February11, 2014, we made a voluntary repayment of $375 million on our Term Loan. This repayment satisfied the required quarterly principal repayments for the entire term of the Credit Agreement. On February11, 2015, we made an additional voluntary repayment of $250 million on our Term Loan. On February25, March31, and May26, 2016, we made additional voluntary repayments of $500 million, $250 million, and $800 million, respectively, on our Term Loan. 17 TrancheA Term Loans. In conjunction with the King Acquisition, the Company entered into three Amendments to the Credit Agreement (the Amendments ). The Amendments, among other things, provided for incremental term loans in the form of Tranche A Term Loans in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.3 billion. The proceeds were issued and provided on February 23, 2016, upon successful closing of the King Acquisition, and were used to fund the King Acquisition. On March 31, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to the Credit Agreement which provided for an incremental Tranche A Term Loan in the aggregate principal amount of $250 million, and the total proceeds from the incremental borrowing were used to make the March 31, 2016 voluntary prepayment on our Term Loan as discussed above. The TrancheA Term Loans are scheduled to mature on October11, 2020, and bear interest, at the Company s option, at either (a)a base rate equal to the highest of (i)the federal funds rate, plus 0.5%, (ii)the prime commercial lending rate of Bank of America, N.A. and (iii)the LIBOR for an interest period of one month beginning on such day plus 1.00%, or (b)LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable interest margin. LIBOR is subject to a floor of 0% and the base rate is subject to an effective floor of 1.00%. The applicable interest margin for TrancheA Term Loans ranges from 1.50% to 2.25% for LIBOR borrowings and from 0.50% to 1.25% for base rate borrowings and is determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Company s Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The TrancheA Term Loans require quarterly principal payments of 0.625% of their stated principal amount commencing June30, 2016, with increases to 1.250% starting on June30, 2019, and 3.125% starting on June30, 2020, with the remaining balance payable on the TrancheA Term Loans scheduled maturity date of October11, 2020. Voluntary prepayments of the TrancheA Term Loans are permitted at any time, in minimum principal amounts, without premium or penalty. The TrancheA Term Loans are subject to a financial maintenance covenant requiring the Company to maintain a maximum Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 4.00 to 1.00, which will decrease to 3.50 to 1.00 (I)after the sixth full fiscal quarter after the TrancheA Term Loans are made or (II)if the Collateral Suspension (as defined in the Credit Agreement) occurs prior to the date falling 18 months after the TrancheA Term Loans are made, on the later of (x)the last day of the fourth full fiscal quarter after the TrancheA Term Loans are made and (y)the last day of the fiscal quarter in which the Collateral Suspension occurs. The TrancheA Term Loans are secured by the same collateral and guaranteed by the same guarantors that secure and guarantee the Term Loan. The other terms of the TrancheA Term Loans are also generally the same as the terms of the Term Loan. At June30, 2016, the Tranche A Term Loans bore interest at 2.46%. In certain circumstances, our applicable interest rate under the Tranche A Term Loans will increase. 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. As part of the Amendments, upon the closing of the King Acquisition, the Company s Original Revolver under the Credit Agreement in an aggregate principal amount of $250 million was replaced with a new revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement in the same aggregate principal amount (the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility, and, together with the Term Loan and Tranche A Term Loans, the Credit Facilities ). Borrowings under the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed by the Company and are available for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Up to $50 million of the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility may be used for letters of credit. The 2015 Revolving Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on October11, 2020. The interest rate options available to the Company for borrowings under the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility are the same as those available to the Company for the Tranche A Term Loans. Additionally, the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility is subject to the same financial maintenance covenant and is secured by the same collateral and guaranteed by the same guarantors that secure and guarantee the TrancheA Term Loans. The other terms of the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility are generally the same as the terms of the Original Revolver. To date, we have not drawn on the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. 18 The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by certain of the Company s U.S. subsidiaries, whose assets represent approximately 66% of our consolidated total assets. The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of debt, granting of liens, payment of dividends, sales of assets, and mergers and acquisitions. A violation of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of such event of default or certain other customary events of default, payment of any outstanding amounts under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated, and the lenders commitments to extend credit under the Credit Agreement may be terminated. In addition, an event of default under the Credit Agreement could, under certain circumstances, permit the holders of other outstanding unsecured debt, including the debt holders described below, to accelerate the repayment of such obligations. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Credit Facilities as of June30, 2016. Unsecured Senior Notes On September19, 2013, we issued, at par, $1.5 billion of 5.625% unsecured senior notes due September2021 (the 2021 Notes ) and $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September2023 (the 2023 Notes and, together with the 2021 Notes, the Notes ) in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers made in accordance with Rule144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities described above. The Notes are guaranteed on a senior basis by certain of our U.S. subsidiaries. The Notes and related guarantees are not secured and are effectively subordinated to any of the Company s existing and future indebtedness that is secured, including the Credit Facilities. The Notes contain customary covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of debt, granting of liens, payment of dividends, sales of assets, and mergers and acquisitions. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of June30, 2016. Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March15 and September15 of each year. As of June30, 2016, and December31, 2015, we had interest payable of $38 million related to the Notes, recorded within Accrued expenses and other liabilities in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. We may redeem the 2021 Notes on or after September15, 2016, and the 2023 Notes on or after September15, 2018, in whole or in part on any one or more occasions, at specified redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest. At any time prior to September15, 2016, with respect to the 2021 Notes, and at any time prior to September15, 2018, with respect to the 2023 Notes, we may also redeem some or all of the Notes by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Further, upon the occurrence of one or more qualified equity offerings, we may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of each of the 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes outstanding with the net cash proceeds from such offerings. The Notes are repayable, in whole or in part and at the option of the holders, upon the occurrence of a change in control and a ratings downgrade, at a purchase price equal to 101% of principal, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These redemption options are considered clearly and closely related to the Notes and are not accounted for separately upon issuance. Debt Discounts and Issuance Costs Fees associated with the closing of the Term Loan, Tranche A Term Loans, and the Notes are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and is amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. In connection with the debt financing for the King Acquisition, we incurred $38 million of issuance costs that were capitalized and recorded within Current portion of long-term debt, net and Long-term debt, net in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amortization of these capitalized costs was not material to our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2016. 19 We classified and presented unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the Term Loan, Tranche A Term Loans, and the Notes as a reduction of their respective gross carrying amounts for all periods presented in accordance with a recent accounting standard that became effective on January1, 2016. Refer to Note 15 for further discussion of the recent accounting standard. A summary of our debt is as follows (amounts in millions): For the three and six months ended June30, 2016: interest expense was $55 million and $107 million, respectively; amortization of the debt discount for the Credit Facilities and Notes was $6 million and $10 million, respectively; and commitment fees for the Original Revolver and the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility were not material. For the three and six months ended June30, 2015: interest expense was $48 million and $97 million, respectively; amortization of the debt discount for the Credit Facilities and Notes was $2 million and $3 million, respectively; and commitment fees for the Original Revolver and the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility were not material. As of June30, 2016, the scheduled maturities and contractual principal repayments of our debt for each of the five succeeding years are as follows (amounts in millions): As of June30, 2016, and December31, 2015, the carrying value of the Term Loan and Tranche A Term Loans approximates the fair value, based on Level 2 inputs (observable market prices in less than active markets), as the interest rate is variable over the selected interest period and is similar to current rates at which we can borrow funds. Based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes were $1,571 million, and $811 million, respectively, as of June30, 2016. Based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes were $1,571 million and $795 million, respectively, as of December31, 2015. 20 Debt Repayments On February2, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized debt repayments of up to $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt during 2016. For the six months ended June30, 2016, we have made prepayments to reduce our total outstanding term loans by $1.3 billion. 8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at June30, 2016 and 2015, were as follows (amounts in millions): Income taxes were not provided for foreign currency translation items as these are considered indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. 9. Operating Segments and Geographic Region Our operating segments are consistent with our internal organizational structure, the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ), the manner in which we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. Currently, we have three reportable operating segments (see Note1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). We do not aggregate operating segments in determining and disclosing our reportable segments. The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting, and fees and other expenses related to financings and acquisitions. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and, accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Information on the operating segments and reconciliations of total net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 are presented below (amounts in millions): 21 (1) Other includes other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Other also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses related to the King Acquisition, inclusive of related debt financings. 22 Geographic information presented below for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, is based on the location of the paying customer. Net revenues from external customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) EMEA consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions. The Company s net revenues in the U.S. were 48% and 50% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% and 14% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. No other country s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2016 or 2015. The Company s net revenues in the U.S. were 47% and 52% of consolidated net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company s net revenues in the U.K. were 11% and 13% of consolidated net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. No other country s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2016 or 2015. Net revenues by platform were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from PC includes revenues that were historically shown as Online. (2) Net revenues from mobile and ancillary includes revenues from handheld, mobile and tablet devices, as well as non-platform specific game-related revenues such as standalone sales of toys and accessories products from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (3) Net revenues from Other include revenues from MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Long-lived assets by geographic region at June30, 2016, and December31, 2015, were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) The only long-lived assets that we classify by region are our long-term tangible fixed assets, which only include property, plant, and equipment assets; all other long-term assets are not allocated by location. 23 10. Income Taxes The Company accounts for its provision for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year. The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits, and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. The income tax expense of $40 million for the three months ended June30, 2016, reflects an effective tax rate of 24%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 25% for the three months ended June30, 2015. The decrease is due to the mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates as compared to domestic earnings. The income tax expense of $113 million for the six months ended June30, 2016, reflects an effective tax rate of 20%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 22% for the six months ended June30, 2015. The decrease is primarily due to the net benefit related to the settlement of an income tax audit during the first quarter of 2016 and the mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates as compared to domestic earnings. The effective tax rate of 24% for the three months ended June30, 2016 differs from the US statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates and the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, partially offset by increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 20% for the six months ended June30, 2016 differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, and the net benefit related to the settlement of an income tax audit during the first quarter of 2016, partially offset by certain nondeductible costs incurred during the period and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The overall effective income tax rate for the year will be dependent, in part, on our profitability for the remainder of the year, as well as the other factors described above. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) is currently examining Activision Blizzard s federal tax returns for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company transitioned the review of its transfer pricing methodology from the advanced pricing agreement review process to the IRS examination team. Their review could result in a different allocation of profits and losses under the Company s transfer pricing agreements. Such allocation could have a positive or negative impact on our provision for uncertain tax positions for the period in which such a determination is reached and the relevant periods thereafter. In addition, as part of purchase price accounting for the King Acquisition, the Company assumed $77 million of uncertain tax positions primarily related to the transfer pricing of King tax years occurring prior to the King Acquisition. The Company is currently in negotiations with the relevant jurisdictions and taxing authorities, which could result in a different allocation of profits and losses between the relevant jurisdictions. 24 Vivendi Games results for the period from January1, 2008 through July9, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign state and local income tax returns filed by Vivendi or its affiliates, while Vivendi Games results for the period from July10, 2008 through December31, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state and local income tax returns filed by Activision Blizzard. IRS Appeals proceedings concerning Vivendi Games tax return for the 2008 tax year were concluded during July2016, but that year remains open to examination by other major taxing authorities. The Company is in the process of analyzing the IRS Appeals closing agreements and does not anticipate a significant impact to its consolidated financial statements. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by tax authorities in various jurisdictions, including France. These proceedings may lead to adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or provisions for uncertain tax positions. The outcome of such proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. If we were to receive a materially adverse assessment from a taxing jurisdiction, we would plan to vigorously contest it and consider all of our options, including the pursuit of judicial remedies. The final resolution of the Company s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations, except as noted above. However, an unfavorable resolution of the Company s global tax disputes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. In 2013, in connection with a share repurchase from Vivendi (the Purchase Transaction ), we assumed certain tax attributes, generally consisting of net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards of approximately $760 million, which represent a potential future tax benefit of approximately $266 million. The utilization of such NOL carryforwards will be subject to certain annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2021. The Company also obtained indemnification from Vivendi against losses attributable to the disallowance of claimed utilization of such NOL carryforwards of up to $200 million in unrealized tax benefits in the aggregate, limited to taxable years ending on or prior to December31, 2016. No benefit for these tax attributes or indemnification was recorded upon the close of the Purchase Transaction. For the six months ended June30, 2016, we utilized $196 million of the NOL, which resulted in a tax benefit of $69 million, and a corresponding reserve of $69 million was established. As of June30, 2016, an indemnification asset of $175 million has been recorded in Other Assets, and, correspondingly, the same amount has been recorded as a reduction to the consideration paid for the shares repurchased in Treasury Stock. 11. Computation of Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share (amounts in millions, except per share data): 25 Certain of our unvested restricted stock rights (including certain restricted stock units and performance shares) met the definition of participating securities as they participate in earnings based on their rights to dividends or dividend equivalents. Therefore, we are required to use the two-class method in our computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016, on a weighted-average basis, we had outstanding unvested restricted stock rights with respect to 3 million shares of common stock that are participating in earnings. For the three and six months ended June30, 2015, on a weighted-average basis, we had outstanding unvested restricted stock rights with respect to 9 million and 10 million shares of common stock, respectively, that are participating in earnings. Certain of our employee-related restricted stock rights and options are contingently issuable upon the satisfaction of pre-defined performance measures. These shares are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period. Approximately 10 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as their respective performance measures had not yet been met. Approximately 3 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended June30, 2015, as their respective performance measures had not yet been met. Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. Therefore, options to acquire 4 million shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, and options to acquire 1 million and 6 million shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three and six months ended June30, 2015, respectively, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. 26 12. Capital Transactions Repurchase Program On February3, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we may repurchase up to $750 millionof our common stock during the two-year period from February9, 2015 through February8, 2017. As of June30, 2016, we have not repurchased any shares under this program. Dividends On February2, 2016, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on May11, 2016, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2016. On May11, 2016, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $192 million to such shareholders, and on May27, 2016, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock rights. On February3, 2015, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.23 per common share, payable on May13, 2015, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2015. On May13, 2015, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $167 million to such shareholders, and on May29, 2015, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock rights. 13. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings SEC regulations govern disclosure of legal proceedings in periodic reports and ASC Topic 450 governs the disclosure of loss contingencies and accrual of loss contingencies in respect of litigation and other claims. We record an accrual for a potential loss when it is probable that a loss will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. When the reasonable estimate of the potential loss is within a range of amounts, the minimum of the range of potential loss is accrued, unless a higher amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range. Moreover, even if an accrual is not required, we provide additional disclosure related to litigation and other claims when it is reasonably possible (i.e.,more than remote) that the outcomes of such litigation and other claims include potential material adverse impacts on us. The outcomes of legal proceedings and other claims are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of these matters, including the probability determination and whether a potential exposure can be reasonably estimated. In making these determinations, we, in consultation with outside counsel, examine the relevant facts and circumstances on a quarterly basis assuming, as applicable, a combination of settlement and litigated outcomes and strategies. Moreover, legal matters are inherently unpredictable and the timing of development of factors on which reasonable judgments and estimates can be based can be slow. As such, there can be no assurance that the final outcome of any legal matter will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability, cash flows, or liquidity. We are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, such routine claims and lawsuits are not significant and we do not expect them to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 27 14. Acquisitions King Digital Entertainment plc On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ), we completed the King Acquisition under the terms of the Transaction Agreement, purchasing all of the outstanding shares of King for $18.00 cash per share. As a result, King became a wholly owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard. King is a leading interactive entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms such as Facebook and king.com websites. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly-complementary mobile business will position the Company as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. The aggregate purchase price of the King Acquisition was approximately $5.8 billion, which was paid on the King Closing Date and funded primarily with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. The total aggregate purchase price for King was comprised of (amounts in millions): (1) Represents the cash consideration paid based on $18.00 per share to common stock holders of King and the fair value of King s existing vested options and awards that were cash settled at the King Closing Date for the portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services. No future services are required. (2) Represents the fair value of King s existing vested and unvested stock options and awards that were assumed and replaced with Activision Blizzard equity or deferred cash awards. The purchase price includes the portion of fair value related to pre-combination services. The fair value of the options and awards assumed was determined using binomial-lattice and Monte Carlo models with the following assumptions: (a)volatility of 36%, (b)time varying risk free interest rates based on the U.S. Treasury yield curves, (c)an expected life ranging from approximately 0.1 years to 7.6 years, and (d)an expected dividend yield of 0.9%. See additional discussion under Stock-Based Compensation below. The Company identified and recorded assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values at the King Closing Date, and allocated the remaining value of approximately $2.7 billion to goodwill. The values assigned to certain acquired assets and liabilities are preliminary, and are based on information available as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q. Additional information may become available subsequently and may result in changes in the values allocated to various assets and liabilities, including the fair value of identified intangible assets, deferred income taxes, and contingent liabilities. Any changes in the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the measurement period of up to 12 months from the date of the King Acquisition may result in material adjustments to goodwill. 28 The preliminary purchase price allocation was as follows (amounts in millions): During the six months ended June30, 2016, the Company incurred $38 million of expenses related to the King Acquisition, which are included within General and administrative in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. In connection with the debt financing that occurred on the King Closing Date, we incurred $38 million of issuance costs that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amortization of these capitalized costs was not material to our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2016. Stock-Based Compensation In connection with the King Acquisition, a majority of the outstanding King options and awards that were unvested as of the King Closing Date were converted into equivalent options and awards with respect to shares of the Company s common stock, using an equity award exchange ratio calculated in accordance with the Transaction Agreement. As a result, replacement equity options and awards of 10 million and 3 million, respectively, were issued in connection with the King Acquisition. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $76 million was included in the purchase price while the remaining fair value will be recognized over the remaining service periods. As of June30, 2016, the future expense for the converted King unvested options and awards was approximately $71 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 2.0 years. The remaining portion of outstanding unvested awards that were assumed were replaced with deferred cash awards. The cash proceeds were placed in an escrow-like account with the cash releases to occur based on the awards original vesting schedule upon future service being rendered. The cash associated with these awards is recorded in Other current assets and Other assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $22 million was included in the purchase price while the remaining fair value of approximately $9 million will be recognized over the remaining service periods. A portion of the cash proceeds placed in an escrow-like account were released to award holders, but the amount was not material. 29 Identifiable Intangible Assets Acquired and Goodwill The preliminary fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired from King were estimated using an income approach, with the exception of the customer base, which was estimated using a cost approach. The fair value of the intangibles using the income approach was determined with the following key assumptions: (a)a weighted average cost of capital of 13%, (b)long-term revenue decay rates ranging from 0% to 65%, and (c)royalty rates ranging from 0.5% to 8%. The fair value of the intangibles using the cost approach was based on amounts that would be required to replace the asset (i.e., replacement cost). The Internally-developed franchises, Customer base, Developed software, and Trademark intangible assets will be amortized to Cost of revenues - subscription, licensing, and other revenues - software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, Sales and marketing, Cost of revenues - subscription, licensing, and other revenues - software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, and General and administrative, respectively. The intangible assets will be amortized over their estimated useful lives in proportion to the economic benefits received. The $2.7 billion of goodwill recognized is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from accelerated expansion as an interactive entertainment provider in the mobile sector, future franchises, and technology, as well as the management team s proven ability to create future games and franchises. Approximately $620 million of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes in the U.S. Contingent Liabilities Assumed As a result of the King Acquisition, we assumed contingent liabilities related to contingent consideration associated with King s previous acquisitions of Nonstop Games Oy and Z2Live,Inc. The remaining contingent consideration for Non Stop Games Oy is linked to amounts generated from games launched by Nonstop Games Oy over a specified period. The range of the potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Company could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is from $0 million to $84 million. The remaining contingent consideration for Z2Live,Inc., is linked to amounts generated from specific games launched by Z2Live,Inc. within a defined period. The potential range of undiscounted future payments that the Company could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is from $0 million to $75 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement at the King Closing date and as of June30, 2016, for Nonstop Games Oy and Z2Live,Inc. was immaterial. King Net Revenue and Earnings The amount of net revenue and earnings attributable to King in the Company s condensed consolidated statement of operations during the six months ended June30, 2016, are included in the table below. The amounts presented represent the net revenues and earnings after adjustments for purchase price accounting, inclusive of amortization of intangible assets, share-based payments, and deferral of revenues and related cost of revenues. Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations of the Company and King, on a pro forma basis, as though the acquisition had occurred on January1, 2015. The pro forma financial information presented includes the effects of adjustments related to amortization charges from acquired intangible assets, employee compensation from replacement equity awards issued in the King Acquisition and the profit sharing bonus plan established as part of the King Acquisition, and interest expense from the new debt, among other adjustments. We also adjusted for Activision Blizzard and King non-recurring acquisition related costs of approximately $64 million for the six months ended June30, 2016. 30 Non-recurring acquisition related costs for the three months ended June30, 2016, were not material. The pro forma financial information as presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the King Acquisition, and any borrowings undertaken to finance the King Acquisition, had taken place at the beginning of the earliest period presented, nor does it intend to be a projection of future results. 15. Recently issued accounting pronouncements Revenue recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017, and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the adoption method as well as the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Stock-based compensation In June2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to stock compensation. The new standard requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the periods for which the requisite service has already been rendered. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Consolidations In February2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to consolidations. The new standard amends certain requirements for determining whether a variable interest entity must be consolidated. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Debt Issuance Costs In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs in financial statements. The new standard requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. We adopted this change in accounting principle as of January1, 2016, and applied it retrospectively for each period presented. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 31 Internal-Use Software In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to internal-use software. The new standard relates to a customer s accounting for fees paid in cloud computing arrangements. The amendment provides guidance for customers to determine whether such arrangements include software licenses. If a cloud arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. We adopted this standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements. Inventory In July2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016 and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Business Combinations In September2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to business combinations. The new standard requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement period adjustment, including the impact on prior periods, on provisional amounts recorded at the acquisition date as a result of the business combination be recognized in the reporting period the adjustment is identified. The standard also requires separate presentation on the face of the income statement, or disclosure in the notes, of the portion of the amount recorded in current period earnings by line item. Prior to the issuance of the standard, such adjustments to provisional amounts were recognized retrospectively. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. No measurement period adjustments occurred as of and for the six months ended June30, 2016. Financial Instruments In January2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, amongst other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amendments related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) should be applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 32 Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, amongst other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either a finance or operating lease in which lessees will need to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment, such as for initial direct costs. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Share-Based Payments In March2016, the FASB issued new guidance in an effort to simplify accounting for share-based payments. The new standard, amongst other things: requires that all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the statement of operations and that the tax effects of exercised or vested awards should be treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur; requires excess tax benefits from share-based payments to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows; and permits an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate, as currently required, or account for forfeitures when they occur. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. We intend to early adopt this standard during the three months ending September30, 2016. Upon adoption, we intend to continue to estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate. If we had adopted this standard in the current quarter, we would have recorded $24 million and $51 million of windfall tax benefits as a reduction to income tax expense in our consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. Under the new standard, the weighted-average number of dilutive shares outstanding would have increased by approximately 3 million for the three and six months ending June30, 2016. As a result, the diluted earnings per common share would have increased $0.03 and $0.07 for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. Further, as the new standard requires excess tax benefits from share-based payments be reported as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows, net cash provided by operating activities would have increased by $52 million for the six months ended June30, 2016, with a corresponding decrease in the net cash provided by financing activities. 33 Item2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview Activision Blizzard,Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc., and its subsidiaries. Activision Blizzard is the result of the 2008 business combination ( Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision,Inc., VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), VGACLLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGACLLC. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc., was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. As of December31, 2015, ASAC II LP ( ASAC ), an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands, held 172 million shares, or approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at that time. On June8, 2016, ASAC II LLC, the general partner of ASAC, distributed approximately 141 million shares allocable to the limited partners of ASAC in accordance with its limited partnership agreement to allow them to control the voting and ownership of such shares. We did not receive any proceeds from the distribution of the shares. Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of Directors, are affiliates of ASAC II LLC. As of June30, 2016, we had approximately 741 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. At that date (i)ASAC held 31 million shares, or approximately 4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and (ii)our other stockholders held approximately 96% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On November2, 2015, we and King Digital Entertainment, a leading interactive mobile entertainment company ( King ), entered into a transaction agreement (the Transaction Agreement ) under the terms of which we would acquire King (the King Acquisition ) and King would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ), we completed the King Acquisition under the terms of the Transaction Agreement and purchased all of the outstanding shares of King for $18.00 cash per share. The aggregate purchase price of King was approximately $5.8 billion, which was paid on the King Closing Date and funded with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly-complementary mobile business positions the Company as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. Reportable Segments Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable operating segments: Activision Publishing,Inc., Blizzard Entertainment,Inc., and King Digital Entertainment. 34 (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision delivers content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults, and from core gamers to mass-market consumers, in a variety of geographies. Activision develops, markets, and sells products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, including games in the Call of Duty and Skylanders franchises, as well as some licensed properties. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe,Destiny. Activision currently offers games that operate on: the Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ) Xbox One ( Xbox One ) and Xbox360 ( Xbox360 ), NintendoCo.Ltd. ( Nintendo ) Wii U ( Wii U ) and Wii ( Wii ), and Sony Computer Entertainment,Inc. ( Sony ) PlayStation 4 ( PS4 ) and PlayStation 3 ( PS3 ) console systems; the PC; the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Dual Screen, and Sony PlayStation Vita handheld game systems; and mobile and tablet devices. (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ) is a leader in online PC gaming, including the subscription-based massively multi-player online role-playing game category, in terms of both subscriber base and revenues generated through its World of Warcraft franchise. Blizzard also develops, markets, and sells role-playing action and strategy games for the PC, console, mobile, and tablet platforms, including games in the multiple-award winning Diablo , StarCraft , Hearthstone : Heroes of Warcraft , and Heroes of the Storm franchises. On May 24, 2016, Blizzard added a new franchise, Overwatch, a team-based first-person shooter available on the PC and console platforms. In addition, Blizzard maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Battle.net , which facilitates digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including subscriptions, sales of prepaid subscription cards, in-game purchases and services, retail sales of physical boxed products, online download sales of PC products, purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile, and tablet platforms, and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. (iii)King Digital Entertainment plc King Digital Entertainment is a leading interactive mobile entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms such as Android and iOS along with games that can be played on Facebook and king.com websites. King has four established free-to-play franchises: Candy Crush , Farm Heroes , Bubble Witch , and Pet Rescue , where monetization occurs through players purchasing in-game virtual currency which can be used in-game to buy virtual items. (iv)Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: The Major League Gaming ( MLG ) business (which we formerly referred to as Activision Blizzard Media Networks or Media Networks), which is devoted to eSports and builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver the best-in-class fan experience across games, platforms, and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments, and premium content. The Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our extensive library of iconic and globally-recognized intellectual properties. The Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. 35 Business Highlights For the three months ended June30, 2016, Activision Blizzard had net revenues of $1.6 billion, as compared to net revenues of $1.0 billion for the same period in 2015. For the three months ended June30, 2016, Activision Blizzard had earnings per diluted share of $0.17, as compared to earnings per diluted share of $0.29 for the same period in 2015. For the six months ended June30, 2016, Activision Blizzard had net revenues of $3.0 billion, as compared to net revenues of $2.3 billion for the same period in 2015. For the six months ended June30, 2016, Activision Blizzard had earnings per diluted share of $0.61, as compared to earnings per diluted share of $0.81 for the same period in 2015. Net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2016 include a net effect of $39 million from additional deferral of net revenues. Net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2016 include a net effect of $508 million from recognition of deferred net revenues. Since certain games are hosted or include online functionality that represents an essential component of gameplay and, as a result, a more-than-inconsequential separate deliverable, we initially defer the software-related revenues from the sale and recognize the revenues attributable to these games over their estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year. Also, for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as a result of the King Acquisition, our net revenues include $458 million and $641 million, respectively, and our net income includes $(49) million and $(99) million from King s operations, respectively, after adjustments for purchase price accounting, inclusive of amortization of intangible assets, share-based payments, and deferral of revenues and related cost of revenues. Our earnings under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) are expected to be down versus prior-year as the expected results will be impacted by accounting charges associated with the King Acquisition, which include, among other things, integration and acquisition-related costs, the amortization of intangible assets resulting from purchase price accounting adjustments, share-based payments, and the related tax impact from the King Acquisition. The majority of these GAAP accounting charges will not impact the economics or operating cash flows of our business, although they will have a material impact on our 2016 GAAP results. On February2, 2016, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on May11, 2016, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2016. On May11, 2016, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $192 million to such shareholders, and on May27, 2016, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock rights. Activision Blizzard Recent and Upcoming Product Releases We have recently released or expect to release the following titles and games, among other titles: Blizzard released Whispers of the Old Gods , the third expansion to Hearthstone : Heroes of Warcraft , on April 26, 2016. Activision released Call of Duty: Black Ops III Eclipse , the second downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Black Ops III, on the PS4 on April 19, 2016, and on Xbox One and PC on May 19, 2016. Blizzard released Overwatch , its team-based first-person shooter, on May 24, 2016. King released Farm Heroes Super Saga , the sequel to the original Farm Heroes Saga, on PC on June 14, 2016, and on mobile platforms on June 28, 2016. Activision released Call of Duty: Black Ops III Descent , the third downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Black Ops III, on the PS4 on July 12, 2016, and expects to release it on Xbox One and PC in August 2016. Blizzard expects to release One Night in Karazhan , a new adventure for Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft , on August 11, 2016. 36 Blizzard expects to release World of Warcraft: Legion , the sixth expansion for Blizzard s acclaimed massively multiplayer online role-playing game, on August 30, 2016. Activision expects to release Destiny: Rise of Iron, a large expansion in the Destiny universe available for the PS4 and Xbox One, on September 20, 2016. Activision expects to release Skylanders Imaginators , the next iteration in the Skylanders franchise, on October 13, 2016. Activision expects to release Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare and Infinite Warfare Legacy Edition , featuring Modern Warfare Remastered , on the PS4, Xbox One, and PC on November 4, 2016. Monthly Active Users ( MAUs ) We monitor MAUs as a key measure of the overall size of our user base and its regular engagement with our portfolio of games. MAUs are the number of individuals who played a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.An individual who plays two of our games would be counted as two users.In addition, due to technical limitations with respect to Activision and King MAUs, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users.For Blizzard MAUs, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user. The number of MAUs for a given period can be significantly impacted by the timing of new content releases, since new releases can cause a temporary surge in MAUs. Accordingly, although we believe that overall trending in the number of MAUs can be a meaningful performance metric, period-to-period fluctuations may not be indicative of longer-term trends. The following table details our average MAUs on a sequential quarterly basis for our reportable segments (amounts in millions): Average MAUs decreased by 53 million, or 10%, for the quarter ended June30, 2016, as compared to the quarter ended March31, 2016. The decrease in King s average MAUs is due to the performance of more mature titles, seasonality, and product launch timing. The decrease in Activision s average MAUs is due to the timing of slate releases, with the launch of Call of Duty: Black Ops III in November2015, which contributed to higher average MAUs for the quarter ended March31, 2016. The decrease is partially offset by the increase in Blizzard s average MAUs due to the release of Overwatch in May2016. Average MAUs decreased by 84million, or 15%, for the quarter ended June30, 2016, as compared to the quarter ended June30, 2015. Activision s and Blizzard s average MAUs grew year-over-year, driven by the Call of Duty franchise and the release of Overwatch. King s average MAUs declined year-over-year due to the performance of more mature titles, partially offset by the release of new titles during the past twelve months, most notably Candy Crush Jelly Saga . 37 Management s Overview of Business Trends Digital Online Channel Revenues We provide our products through both retail and digital distribution channels. Many of our video games that are available through retailers as physical boxed software products are also available digitally, from our websites and from websites and digital distribution channels owned by third parties. In addition, we offer players digital downloadable content as add-ons to our products (e.g., new multi-player content packs or in-game microtransaction purchases), generally for a one-time fee. We also offer subscription-based services and other value-added services forWorld of Warcraft, all of which are digitally delivered and hosted by Battle.net. We currently define sales via digital online channels as revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, licensing royalties, value-added services, downloadable content, microtransaction purchases, and products. This definition may differ from that used by our competitors or other companies. According to Activision Blizzard internal estimates, overall industry digital gaming revenues for the six months ended June30, 2016, increased by approximately 30% as compared to the same period in 2015, with mobile growth at 51%.The primary drivers of the increase in digital gaming revenues were increases in microtransaction purchases and consumer purchases of full games via digital channels. In addition to increasing microtransaction purchases within free-to-play games, the increase includes microtransaction purchases within purchased game software, as publishers offer increasingly new opportunities for monetization within their games to extend and enlarge the monetization cycle. Digital revenues are an important part of our business, and we continue to focus on and develop products, such as downloadable content, that can be delivered via digital channels. The amount of our digital revenues in any period may fluctuate depending in part on the timing and nature of our specific product releases. Our sales of digital downloadable content are driven in part by sales of, and engagement by players in, our retail products. As such, lower revenues in our retail distribution channels in the current year may impact our revenues through digital online channels in the subsequent year. For the three months ended June30, 2016, revenues through digital online channels increased by $572 million, as compared to the same period in 2015, and represented 73% of our total consolidated net revenues, as compared to 55% for the same period in 2015. The digital online channel revenues for the three months ended June30, 2016 include a net effect of $261 million from additional deferral of net revenues. For the six months ended June30, 2016, revenues through digital online channels increased by $917 million, as compared to the same period in 2015, and represented 68% of our total consolidated net revenues, as compared to 50% for the same period in 2015. The digital online channel revenues for the six months ended June30, 2016 include a net effect of $132 million from additional deferral of net revenues. Concentration of Top Titles The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive software industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 33% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2015. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues has historically been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises and these video games were responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, the Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, Skylanders, and Destiny franchises combined accounted for 71% of our consolidated net revenues, and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income, for 2015. As a result, successful competition against these titles can significantly impact our performance. We are continually exploring additional investments in existing and future franchises. During 2015, we releasedHeroes of the Storm, as well asCall of Duty Onlinein China and on May24, 2016, we released Overwatch. 38 Additionally, on February23, 2016, we completed the King Acquisition, diversifying our portfolio of key franchises and increasing our presence in the mobile market. We see similar concentration of key titles accounting for a disproportionate amount of digital sales in that market. According to the U.S. ranking for the Apple App Store, per App Annie Intelligence, seven mobile titles remained in the top 10 ranking of gross sales for all four quarters during 2015. Overall, we do expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our, and the industry s, revenues and profits in the near future. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data The following table sets forth condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated in dollars and as a percentage of total net revenues, except for cost of revenues, which are presented as a percentage of associated revenues (amounts in millions): (1)In periods prior to the three months ended June30, 2016, we presented cost of revenues in our consolidated statements of operations in four financial statement captions: Cost of sales - product costs, Cost of sales - online, Cost of sales - software royalties and amortization, and Cost of sales - intellectual property licenses. In our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, we revised the presentation to more clearly align our costs of revenues with the associated revenue captions as follows: 39 Cost of revenues - product sales: (i) Product costs - includes the manufacturing cost of goods produced and sold during the reporting period. This generally includes product costs, manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts, personnel-related costs, warehousing, and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones). (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses - includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to product sales revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to product sales revenues. Cost of revenues - subscription, licensing, and other revenues: (i) Game operations and distribution costs - includes costs to operate our games, such as customer service, internet bandwidth and server costs, platform provider fee, and payment provider fees. (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses - includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to subscription, licensing and other revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to subscription, licensing, and other revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Operating Segment Results Our operating segments are consistent with our internal organizational structure, the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ), the manner in which we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments in determining and disclosing our reportable segments. The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting, and fees and other expenses related to financings and acquisitions. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Information on the operating segments and reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 are presented in the table below (amounts in millions): 40 (1) Other segments includes other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Other also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses related to the King Acquisition, inclusive of related debt financings. Segment Net Revenues Activision Activision s net revenues increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues from the Destiny franchise, as the expansion pack, The Dark Below, was released in the three months ended June30, 2015, with no comparable release in 2016, and lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise. 41 Blizzard Blizzard s net revenues increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to revenues from Overwatch, a new team-based first-person shooter released on May24, 2016, and increased revenue from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, which benefited from its release on iPhone and Android smartphones in April2015. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues from Diablo III: Reaper of Souls TM in China, which was released during the three months ended June 30, 2015, with no comparable release in 2016, and lower revenues from Heroes of the Storm due to the release of the Founders Pack, a digital bundle containing in-game add on content, during the three months ended June 30, 2015, with no comparable release in 2016. Additionally, for the six months ended June 30, 2016, the increased revenues were partially offset by lower revenues from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base and a reserve established in the second quarter of 2016 due to a value added tax (VAT) audit. King King s net revenues represent the net revenues from the King Closing Date through June30, 2016. The revenues were primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise, which included the release of Candy Crush Jelly Saga in January2016. Segment Income from Operations Activision Activision s operating income increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues, lower sales and marketing spending, and the allocation of a portion of general and administrative corporate costs to King following the King Closing Date. This was partially offset by increased product development costs for current and upcoming releases. Blizzard Blizzard s operating income increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues. This was partially offset by higher sales and marketing spending to support the current and upcoming product releases. King King s operating income for the six months ended June30, 2016 represents the operating income from the acquisition close date through June30, 2016. Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $1 million and a negative impact of $12 million on Activision Blizzard s segment net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the United States ( U.S. ) dollar relative to the euro and British pound. Net Revenues by Distribution Channel The following table details our consolidated net revenues by distribution channel for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): 42 The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by distribution channel for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, was as follows (amounts in millions): (1)We define revenues from digital online channels as revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, licensing royalties, value-added services, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products. (2)Net revenues from Other include revenues from our MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Digital Online Channel Net Revenues The increase in net revenues from digital online channels for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily due to: new revenues from King titles following the King Closing Date, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise; higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014; higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft; and revenues from Overwatch, which was released on May24, 2016. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to the smaller subscriber base and the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November 2014, with no comparable release in 2015. Net revenues from digital online channels for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was also impacted by a reserve established in the second quarter of 2016 due to a VAT audit. The decrease in deferred revenues recognized from digital online channels for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily attributed to the deferral of revenues associated with the release of Overwatch and lower deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft, primarily associated with World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor, which was released in November2014. This was partially offset by: increased deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare; increased deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft; and lower deferral of revenues from the Destiny franchise due to the release of Destiny: House of Wolves, the second expansion pack, in May2015, with no comparable release in the current period. 43 Retail Channel Net Revenues The decrease in net revenues from retail channels for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, asDestiny wasreleased in the third quarter of 2014, with no comparable full-game release in 2015, and lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise. This was partially offset by higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014. The decrease in deferred revenues recognized from retail channels for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily attributed to the deferral of revenues associated with the release of Overwatch and lower deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise due to the timing of the full game release. This was partially offset by increased deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare and deferred revenues recognized from Guitar Hero Live , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015. Net Revenues by Geographic Region The following table details our consolidated net revenues by geographic region for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by geographic region for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (amounts in millions): (1) EMEA consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions. 44 In Americas and EMEA, net revenues increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: new revenues from King titles since the King Closing Date, with the revenues primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise; higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014; and revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May2016. These were partially offset by: lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, asDestinydebuted in September2014 but had no comparable full-game release in 2015; lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base and the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014, with no comparable release in 2015; and lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise. Additionally, in EMEA, the increase in net revenues was partially offset by a reserve established in the second quarter of 2016 due to a VAT audit. In Asia Pacific, net revenues increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: new revenues from King titles since the King Closing Date, with the revenues primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise; higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft; and revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May2016. These were partially offset by lower revenues recognized from the Diablo franchise due to the timing of releases. Additionally, for the six months ended June30, 2016, the increase in net revenues was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base and the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014, with no comparable release in 2015. In Americas and EMEA, the decrease in deferred revenues recognized for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily attributed to: the deferral of revenues associated with the release of Overwatch; lower deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise due to the timing of the full game release; and lower deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft, primarily associated with World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor, which was released in November2014. This was partially offset by increased deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare and increased deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. In Asia Pacific, the decrease in deferred revenues recognized for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, was primarily attributed to the deferral of revenues related to the release of Overwatch, offset by increased deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft and lower deferral of revenues from the Diablo franchise due to timing of title releases. Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $1 million and a negative impact of $21 million on our consolidated net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively, as compared to the same period in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and British pound. Net Revenues by Platform The following tables detail our net revenues by platform and as a percentage of total consolidated net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): 45 The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by platform for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from PC includes revenues that were historically shown as Online. (2) Net revenues from mobile and ancillary includes revenues from handheld, mobile, and tablet devices, as well as non-platform-specific game-related revenues such as standalone sales of toys and accessories products from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (3) Net revenues from Other include revenues from MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Net revenues from console increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014, and revenues recognized from Guitar Hero Live , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, with no comparable release in 2014. These increases were offset by lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise as Destiny was released in the third quarter of 2014, with no comparable full-game release in 2015, and lower revenues from the Diablo franchise due to the timing of title releases. Net revenues from PC increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to revenues recognized from King titles since the King Closing Date, from revenues recognized on Overwatch, which was released in May24, 2016, from higher revenues recognized on Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, and from revenues recognized on StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015. These were partially offset by lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to a smaller subscriber base and the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in the fourth quarter of 2014, with no comparable release in 2015. Additionally, the increase in net revenues was partially offset by a reserve established in the second quarter of 2016 due to a VAT audit. Net revenues from mobile and ancillary increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to new revenues from King titles since the King Closing Date, which were primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise, and higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, which was released on iPhone and Android smartphones in April2015. These were partially offset by lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise. Deferred revenues recognized from console decreased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to the deferral of revenues related to the release of Overwatch and lower deferred revenue recognized from the Destiny franchise due to the timing of the full game and additional content releases. The decrease is partially offset by increased deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, and its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, and deferred revenues recognized from Guitar Hero Live, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, with no comparable release in 2014. 46 Deferred revenues recognized from PC decreased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to the deferral of revenues related to the release of Overwatch, and lower deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft. The decrease is partially offset by lower deferral of revenues from Diablo III due to timing of title releases. Additionally, for the six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, the decrease is partially offset by higher deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, from revenues recognized from StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, and from lower deferrals of revenues on Heroes of the Storm. Deferred revenues recognized from mobile and ancillary decreased for the three months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to deferrals of revenue from King titles, most notably the Candy Crush franchise. The decrease is partially offset by higher deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. Deferred revenues recognized from mobile and ancillary increased for the six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, partially offset by deferrals of revenue from King titles. Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following tables detail the components of cost of revenues in dollars and as a percentage of associated net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): Total cost of revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, increased as compared to the same period in 2015, reflective of the increase in consolidated net revenues. 47 Product costs remained relatively flat for the three months ended June30, 2016, when compared to the same period in 2015, despite the lower product sales. This was driven primarily by the release of Overwatch on the console platforms, which had relatively higher product costs compared to other Blizzard titles. Product costs decreased for the six months ended June30, 2016, when compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to lower product sales. This was partially offset by the release of Overwatch on the console platforms, which have relatively higher product costs compared to other Blizzard titles. Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales increased for the three months ended June30, 2016, primarily due to higher software amortization associated with Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014, and software amortization associated with recently released titles without prior comparable titles in the previous period, including Guitar Hero Live and Starcraft II: Legacy of the Void. These were partially offset by lower software amortization from the Destiny franchise, asDestinywas released in the third quarter of 2014, but had no comparable full-game release in 2015. Game operations and distribution costs increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, when compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to increased online costs and platform provider fees associated with revenues included since the King Closing Date and increased expenditures to support our growing online activity across our titles. Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to subscription, licensing, and other revenues increased primarily due to the amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition. Product Development (amounts in millions) Product development costs increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily from product development costs associated with King s titles, along with increased product development costs from Activision s current and upcoming releases. Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions) Sales and marketing costs increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily driven by the amortization of the customer base intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition, sales and marketing spending to support King s titles, and increased spending on sales and marketing activity to support Overwatch. These increases were partially offset by lower spending on Guitar Hero Live and Heroes of the Storm. 48 General and Administrative (amounts in millions) General and administrative expenses increased for the three months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to King s general and administrative costs, which are included from the King Closing Date, and higher personnel bonuses due to Blizzard s performance for the three months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015. General and administrative expenses increased for the six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to King s general and administrative costs, which are included from the King Closing Date, and higher professional and transaction related fees due to the King Acquisition, which closed on February23, 2016. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions) Interest and other expense (income), net, increased for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to increased interest expense associated with the $2.3 billion Tranche A Term Loans that were funded at the King Closing Date. This increase was partially offset by lower interest expense related to our existing term loan as a result of having a lower principal balance during the three and six months ended June30, 2016, because of voluntary prepayments of $500 million, $250 million, and $800 million made on February25, 2016, March31, 2016, and May26, 2016, respectively. Income Tax Expense (amounts in millions) The Company accounts for its provision for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year. The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. The income tax expense of $40 million for the three months ended June30, 2016, reflects an effective tax rate of 24%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 25% for the three months ended June30, 2015. The decrease is due to the mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates as compared to domestic earnings. 49 The income tax expense of $113 million for the six months ended June30, 2016, reflects an effective tax rate of 20%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 22% for the six months ended June30, 2015. The decrease is primarily due to the net benefit related to the settlement of an income tax audit during the first quarter of 2016 and the mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates as compared to domestic earnings. The effective tax rate of 24% for the three months ended June30, 2016 differs from the US statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates and the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, partially offset by increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 20% for the six months ended June30, 2016, differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, the recognition of federal and California research and development credits and the net benefit related to the settlement of an income tax audit during the first quarter of 2016, partially offset by certain nondeductible costs incurred during the period and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The overall effective income tax rate for the year will be dependent in part on our profitability for the remainder of the year, as well as the other factors described above. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) is currently examining Activision Blizzard s federal tax returns for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company transitioned the review of its transfer pricing methodology from the advanced pricing agreement review process to the IRS examination team. Their review could result in a different allocation of profits and losses under the Company s transfer pricing agreements. Such allocation could have a positive or negative impact on our provision for uncertain tax positions for the period in which such a determination is reached and the relevant periods thereafter. In addition, as part of purchase price accounting for the King Acquisition, the Company assumed $77 million of uncertain tax positions primarily related to the transfer pricing of King tax years occurring prior to the King Acquisition. The Company is currently in negotiations with the relevant jurisdictions and taxing authorities, which could result in a different allocation of profits and losses between the relevant jurisdictions. Vivendi Games results for the period from January1, 2008 through July9, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign state and local income tax returns filed by Vivendi or its affiliates, while Vivendi Games results for the period from July10, 2008 through December31, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state and local income tax returns filed by Activision Blizzard. IRS Appeals proceedings concerning Vivendi Games tax return for the 2008 tax year were concluded during July2016, but that year remains open to examination by other major taxing authorities.The Company is in the process of analyzing the IRS Appeals closing agreements and does not anticipate a significant impact to its consolidated financial statements. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by tax authorities in various jurisdictions, including France. These proceedings may lead to adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or provisions for uncertain tax positions. The outcome of such proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. If we were to receive a materially adverse assessment from a taxing jurisdiction, we would plan to vigorously contest it and consider all of our options, including the pursuit of judicial remedies. The final resolution of the Company s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations, except as noted above. However, an unfavorable resolution of the Company s global tax disputes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. 50 In 2013, in connection with a share repurchase from Vivendi (the Purchase Transaction ), we assumed certain tax attributes, generally consisting of net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards of approximately $760 million, which represent a potential future tax benefit of approximately $266 million. The utilization of such NOL carryforwards will be subject to certain annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2021. The Company also obtained indemnification from Vivendi against losses attributable to the disallowance of claimed utilization of such NOL carryforwards of up to $200 million in unrealized tax benefits in the aggregate, limited to taxable years ending on or prior to December31, 2016. No benefit for these tax attributes or indemnification was recorded upon the close of the Purchase Transaction. For the six months ended June30, 2016, we utilized $196 million of the NOL, which resulted in a tax benefit of $69 million, and a corresponding reserve of $69 million was established. As of June30, 2016, an indemnification asset of $175 million has been recorded in Other Assets, and, correspondingly, the same amount has been recorded as a reduction to the consideration paid for the shares repurchased in Treasury Stock. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions) Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities The primary drivers of cash flows provided by operating activities typically include the collection of customer receivables generated by the sale of our products and digital and subscription revenues, partially offset by: payments to vendors for the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of our products; payments for customer service support for our consumers; payments to third-party developers and intellectual property holders; payments for interest on our debt; payments for software development; payments for tax liabilities; and payments to our workforce. Cash flows provided by operating activities were higher for the six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015, despite the lower net income in the current period primarily due to the release of Overwatch on May24, 2016, with no comparable release in the prior year, which generated operating cash flows but for which the impact to net income is largely deferred into future periods due to the online functionality of the product and the operating cash flows of King, which are included from the King Closing date. Additionally, net income for the six months ended June30, 2016 includes higher non-cash reconciling items, primarily from the amortization of the acquired intangibles in the King Acquisition, that are excluded in determining the cash flows from operations. 51 Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities The primary drivers of cash flows used in investing activities typically include the net effect of capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash balances, as well as cash used for acquisitions. Cash flows used in investing activities were $1.1 billion for the six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to $144 million for the six months ended June30, 2015. The increase in the cash used was primarily due to the $2.2 billion cash outflow for the King Acquisition in excess of the cash already in escrow, net of the $1.15 billion cash acquired. The increase in cash used also included higher capital expenditures of $71 million compared to $49 million in 2015. Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Financing Activities The primary drivers of cash flows used in financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt, and transactions involving our common stock, such as the issuance of shares of common stock to employees, the repurchase of our common stock, and the payment of dividends. Cash flows provided by financing activities were higher during the six months ended June30, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to $2.6 billion of proceeds received from debt financing. These were partially offset by higher partial repayment of our Term Loan in 2016 of $1.6 billion, as compared to the $250 million partial repayment of our Term Loan in 2015, higher payment of dividends of $195 million compared to $170 million in 2015, and payment of debt discount and financing costs. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are typically cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities. In addition, as described below, we have availability of $250 million, subject to certain restrictions, under a secured revolving credit facility. With our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.3 billion at June30, 2016, and expected cash flows provided by operating activities, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet daily operations in the foreseeable future. We also believe that we have sufficient working capital ($1.2 billion at June30, 2016) to finance our operational and financing requirements for at least the next twelve months, including: purchases of inventory and equipment; the development, production, marketing, and sale of new products; provision of customer service for our subscribers; acquisition of intellectual property rights for future products from third parties; and payments related to debt obligations. As of June30, 2016, and December31, 2015, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $1.6 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. If the cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. is needed in the future for our operations in the U.S., we would accrue and pay the required U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. Debt Unsecured Notes On September19, 2013, we issued, at par, $1.5 billion of 5.625% unsecured senior notes due September2021 (the 2021 Notes ) and $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September2023 (the 2023 Notes and, together with the 2021 Notes, the Notes ). Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March15 and September15 of each year, commencing on March15, 2014. As of June30, 2016, the Notes had a carrying value of $2.25 billion. 52 We may redeem the 2021 Notes on or after September15, 2016 and the 2023 Notes on or after September15, 2018, in whole or in part on any one or more occasions, at specified redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest. At any time prior to September15, 2016, with respect to the 2021 Notes, and at any time prior to September15, 2018, with respect to the 2023 Notes, we may also redeem some or all of the Notes by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of one or more qualified equity offerings, we may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of each of the 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes outstanding with the net cash proceeds from such offerings. The Notes are repayable, in whole or in part and at the option of the holders, upon the occurrence of a change in control and a ratings downgrade, at a purchase price equal to 101% of principal, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Credit Facilities Term Loan. On October 11, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) for a $2.5 billion secured term loan facility maturing in October 2020 (the Term Loan ), and a $250 million secured revolving credit facility m(the Original Revolver ). A portion of the Original Revolver could be used to issue letters of credit of up to $50 million, subject to the availability of the Original Revolver. As of June30, 2016, the outstanding balance of our Term Loan was $319 million. Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest, payable on a quarterly basis, at an annual rate equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, (A)a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (a)the interest rate in effect determined by the administrative agent as its prime rate, (b)the federal funds rate plus 0.5%, and (c)the London InterBank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, or (B)LIBOR.LIBOR borrowings under the Term Loan are subject to a LIBOR floor of 0.75%. At June30, 2016, the Term Loan bore interest at 3.25%. In certain circumstances, our applicable interest rate under the Term Loan will increase. In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal balances under the Term Loan, we were required to pay the lenders a commitment fee on unused commitments under the Original Revolver. We are also required to pay customary letter of credit fees, if any, and agency fees. The terms of the Credit Agreement require quarterly principal repayments of 0.25% of the Term Loan s original principal amount, with the balance due on the maturity date. On February11, 2014, we made a voluntary repayment of $375 million on our Term Loan. This repayment satisfied the required quarterly principal repayments for the entire term of the Credit Agreement. On February11, 2015, we made an additional voluntary repayment of $250 million on our Term Loan. On February25, March31, and May26, 2016, we made additional voluntary repayments of $500 million, $250 million, and $800 million, respectively, on our Term Loan. The 2016 repayments reduced our expected future contractual interest payments by approximately $42 million annually, based on the interest rate of 3.25% at June30, 2016. Amounts borrowed under the Term Loan and repaid may not be re-borrowed. TrancheA Term Loans. In conjunction with the King Acquisition, the Company entered into three Amendments to the Credit Agreement (the Amendments ). The Amendments, among other things, provided for incremental term loans in the form of Tranche A Term Loans in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.3 billion. The proceeds were issued and provided on February 23, 2016, upon successful closing of the King Acquisition, and were used to fund the King Acquisition. On March 31, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to the Credit Agreement which provided for an incremental Tranche A Term Loan in the aggregate principal amount of $250 million, and the total proceeds from the incremental borrowing were used to make the March 31, 2016 voluntary prepayment on our Term Loan as discussed above. The TrancheA Term Loans are scheduled to mature on October11, 2020, and bear interest, at the Company s option, at either (a)a base rate equal to the highest of (i)the federal funds rate, plus 0.5% (ii)the prime commercial lending rate of Bank of America, N.A., and (iii)the LIBOR for an interest period of one month beginning on such day plus 1.00%, or (b)LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable interest margin. LIBOR is subject to a floor of 0% and the base rate is subject to an effective floor of 1.00%. The applicable interest margin for TrancheA Term Loans ranges from 1.50% to 2.25% for LIBOR borrowings and from 0.50% to 1.25% for base rate borrowings and is determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Company s Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement). 53 The TrancheA Term Loans require quarterly principal payments of 0.625% of their stated principal amount commencing June30, 2016, with increases to 1.250% starting on June30, 2019 and 3.125% starting on June30, 2020, with the remaining balance payable on the TrancheA Term Loans scheduled maturity date of October11, 2020. Voluntary prepayments of the TrancheA Term Loans are permitted at any time, in minimum principal amounts, without premium or penalty. The TrancheA Term Loans are subject to a financial maintenance covenant requiring the Company to maintain a maximum Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 4.00 to 1.00, which will decrease to 3.50 to 1.00 (I)after the sixth full fiscal quarter after the TrancheA Term Loans are made or (II)if the Collateral Suspension (as defined in the Credit Agreement) occurs prior to the date falling 18months after the TrancheA Term Loans are made, on the later of (x)the last day of the fourth full fiscal quarter after the TrancheA Term Loans are made and (y)the last day of the fiscal quarter in which the Collateral Suspension occurs. The TrancheA Term Loans are secured by the same collateral and guaranteed by the same guarantors that secure and guarantee the Term Loan. The other terms of the TrancheA Term Loans are also generally the same as the terms of the Term Loan. At June30, 2016, the Tranche A Term Loans bore interest at 2.46%. In certain circumstances, our applicable interest rate under the Tranche A Term Loans will increase. 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. As part of the Amendments, upon the closing of the King Acquisition, the Company s Original Revolver under the Credit Agreement in an aggregate principal amount of $250 million was replaced with a new revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement in the same aggregate principal amount (the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility and, together with the Term Loan and Tranche A Term Loans, the Credit Facilities ). Borrowings under the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed by the Company and are available for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Up to $50million of the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility may be used for letters of credit. The 2015 Revolving Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on October11, 2020. The interest rate options available to the Company for borrowings under the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility are the same as those available to the Company for the Tranche A Term Loans. Additionally, the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility is subject to the same financial maintenance covenant and is secured by the same collateral and guaranteed by the same guarantors that secure and guarantee the TrancheA Term Loans. The other terms of the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility are generally the same as the terms of the Original Revolver. To date, we have not drawn on the 2015 Revolving Credit Facility. Fees associated with the closing of the Term Loan, Tranche A Term Loans, and the Notes are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values and is amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. In connection with the debt financing for the King Acquisition, we incurred $38 million of issuance costs that were capitalized and recorded within Current portion of long-term debt, net and Long term debt, net in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The amortization of these capitalized costs was not material to our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the six months ended June30, 2016. Agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the Notes and the Credit Agreement, impose operating and financial restrictions on our activities under certain conditions. These restrictions may require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios. In addition, the indenture and the Credit Agreement limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt or make additional guarantees; pay distributions or dividends and repurchase stock; make other restricted payments, including without limitation certain restricted investments; create liens; enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; engage in transactions with affiliates; and enter into mergers, consolidations, or sales of substantially all of our assets. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Notes and Credit Facilities as of June30, 2016. 54 Debt Repayments On February2, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized net debt repayments of up to $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt during 2016. For the six months ended June30, 2016, we have made prepayments to reduce our total outstanding term loans by $1.3 billion. Capital Expenditures For the year ending December31, 2016, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $155 million, primarily for computer hardware and software purchases. During the first six months of 2016, we made aggregate capital expenditures of $71 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At June30, 2016, and December31, 2015, Activision Blizzard had no significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Financial Disclosure We maintain internal control over financial reporting, which generally includes those controls relating to the preparation of our financial statements in conformity with U.S.GAAP. We also are focused on our disclosure controls and procedures, which as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), are generally those controls and procedures designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rulesand forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including our principal executive and financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our Disclosure Committee, which operates under the Board of Directors-approved Disclosure Committee Charter and Disclosure Controls& Procedures Policy, includes senior management representatives and assists executive management in its oversight of the accuracy and timeliness of our disclosures, as well as in implementing and evaluating our overall disclosure process. As part of our disclosure process, senior finance and operational representatives from all of our corporate divisions and business units prepare quarterly reports regarding their current-quarter operational performance, future trends, subsequent events, internal controls, changes in internal controls, and other accounting and disclosure relevant information. These quarterly reports are reviewed by certain key corporate finance executives. These corporate finance representatives also conduct quarterly interviews on a rotating basis with the preparers of selected quarterly reports. The results of the quarterly reports and related interviews are reviewed by the Disclosure Committee. Finance representatives also conduct interviews with our senior management team, our legal counsel and other appropriate personnel involved in the disclosure process, as appropriate. Additionally, senior finance and operational representatives provide internal certifications regarding the accuracy of information they provide that is utilized in the preparation of our periodic public reports filed with the SEC. Financial results and other financial information also are reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory requirements, the principal executive and financial officers review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of our periodic public reports filed with the SEC, our disclosure controls and procedures, and our internal control over financial reporting. With the assistance of the Disclosure Committee, we will continue to assess and monitor, and make refinements to, our disclosure controls and procedures, and our internal control over financial reporting. 55 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments, and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments, and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments, or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions, and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following: Revenue Recognition including Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables Allowances for Returns, Price Protection, Doubtful Accounts, and Inventory Obsolescence Software Development Costs and Intellectual Property Licenses Income Taxes Fair Value Estimates (including Business Combinations and Assessment of Impairment of Assets) Stock-Based Compensation During the six months ended June30, 2016, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates, but we did expand the accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition to include virtual currency as noted below. Refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in PartII,Item7 of our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. Microtransaction Revenues Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual goods and currencies to our players to enhance their gameplay experience. Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods and currencies are initially recorded in deferred revenues. Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as a player uses the virtual goods purchased with the virtual currency. We categorize our virtual goods as either consumable or durable. Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed. Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time. We recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player, which is generally the estimated service period of the game. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Revenue recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017, and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the adoption method as well as the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 56 Stock-based compensation In June2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to stock compensation. The new standard requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the periods for which the requisite service has already been rendered. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Consolidations In February2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to consolidations. The new standard amends certain requirements for determining whether a variable interest entity must be consolidated. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Debt Issuance Costs In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs in financial statements. The new standard requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. We adopted this change in accounting principle as of January1, 2016, and applied it retrospectively for each period presented. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Internal-Use Software In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to internal-use software. The new standard relates to a customer s accounting for fees paid in cloud computing arrangements. The amendment provides guidance for customers to determine whether such arrangements include software licenses. If a cloud arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. We adopted this standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements. Inventory In July2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Business Combinations In September2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to business combinations. The new standard requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement period adjustment, including the impact on prior periods, made to provisional amounts recorded at the acquisition date as a result of the business combination be recognized in the reporting period during which the adjustment is identified. The standard also requires separate presentation on the face of the income statement, or disclosure in the notes, of the portion of the amount recorded in current period earnings by line item. Prior to the issuance of the standard, such adjustments to provisional amounts were recognized retrospectively. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. No measurement period adjustments occurred as of and for the three months ended March31, 2016. 57 Financial Instruments In January2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, amongst other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amendments related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) should be applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, amongst other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either a finance or operating lease in which lessees will need to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment, such as for initial direct costs. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Share-Based Payments In March2016, the FASB issued new guidance in an effort to simplify accounting for share-based payments. The new standard, amongst other things: requires that all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the statement of operations and that the tax effects of exercised or vested awards should be treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur; requires excess tax benefits from share-based payments to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows; and permits an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate, as currently required, or account for forfeitures when they occur. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. We intend to early adopt this standard during the three months ending September30, 2016. Upon adoption, we intend to continue to estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate. If we had adopted this standard in the current quarter, we would have recorded $24 million and $51 million of windfall tax benefits as a reduction to income tax expense in our consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. Under the new standard, the weighted-average number of dilutive shares outstanding would have increased by approximately 3 million for the three and six months ending June30, 2016. As a result, the diluted earnings per common share would have increased $0.03 and $0.07 for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. Finally, as the new standard requires excess tax benefits from share-based payments be reported as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows, net cash provided by operating activities would have increased by $52 million for the six months ended June30, 2016, with a corresponding decrease in the net cash provided by financing activities. 58Item 1. Financial Statements ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) (1) Excludes deferral and amortization of stock-based compensation expense. (2) Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of stock-based compensation expense. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY For the Nine Months Ended September30, 2016 (Unaudited) (Amounts and shares in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation Activision Blizzard,Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc. and its subsidiaries. We currently offer games for video game consoles, personal computers ( PC ), and handheld, mobile, and tablet devices. We maintain significant operations in the United States ( U.S. ), Canada, the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), France, Germany,Ireland,Italy, Sweden, Spain, the Netherlands, Australia, South Korea, and China. Activision Blizzard is the result of the 2008 business combination ( Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision,Inc., VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), VGACLLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGACLLC. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. As of December31, 2015, ASAC II LP, an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands ( ASAC LP ), held approximately 172 million shares, or approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at that time. Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of Directors, are the managers of ASAC II LLC, the general partner of ASAC LP ( ASAC GP ). On June8, 2016, ASAC GP distributed the approximately 141 million shares allocable to the limited partners of ASAC LP to those limited partners. On July7, 2016, ASAC LP distributed approximately 18 million of its remaining approximately 31 million shares to ASAC GP. On August15, 2016, ASAC GP sold approximately 4 million shares of our common stock and distributed 14 million shares pro rata to its members, consisting of trusts for the benefit of Messrs.Kotick and Kelly, which shares were ultimately sold on that day for financial and estate-planning purposes. On August19, 2016, ASAC LP distributed its remaining shares of common stock to ASAC GP, leaving ASAC LP without any shares and ASAC GP with approximately 13 million shares of our common stock, which represented approximately 2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of September30, 2016. We did not receive any proceeds from any of the distributions or sales of the shares. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On November2, 2015, we and King Digital Entertainmentplc ( King ), a leading interactive mobile entertainment company, entered into a transaction agreement (the Transaction Agreement ) under the terms of which we would acquire King (the King Acquisition ) and King would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On February23, 2016, we completed the King Acquisition, as further described in Note 14 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the operations of King commencing on February23, 2016. Reportable Segments Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable operating segments as follows: (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision delivers content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults, and from core gamers to mass-market consumers, in a variety of geographies. Activision develops, markets, and sells products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, including games in the Call of Duty and Skylanders franchises, as well as some licensed properties. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny. Activision currently offers games that operate on the Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ) Xbox One ( Xbox One ) and Xbox 360 ( Xbox 360 ), Nintendo Co. Ltd. ( Nintendo ) Wii U ( Wii U ) and Wii ( Wii ), and Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. ( Sony ) PlayStation 4 ( PS4 ) and PlayStation 3 ( PS3 ) console systems; the PC; the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Dual Screen, and Sony PlayStation Vita handheld game systems; and mobile and tablet devices. 9 (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ) is a leader in online PC gaming, including the subscription-based massively multi-player online role-playing game category, in terms of both subscriber base and revenues generated through its World of Warcraft franchise. Blizzard also develops, markets, and sells role-playing action and strategy games for the PC, console, mobile and tablet platforms, including games in the multiple-award winning Diablo , StarCraft , Hearthstone : Heroes of Warcraft , and Heroes of the Storm franchises. On May 24, 2016, Blizzard added a new franchise, Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter available on the PC and console platforms. In addition, Blizzard maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Battle.net , which facilitates digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including: subscriptions; sales of prepaid subscription cards; in-game purchases and services; retail sales of physical boxed products; online sales of downloadable PC products; purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile, and tablet platforms; and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. (iii)King Digital Entertainment Limited King Digital Entertainment Limited ( King ) is a leading interactive mobile entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King has four established free-to-play franchises: Candy Crush , Farm Heroes , Bubble Witch , and Pet Rescue , where monetization occurs through players purchasing virtual items and in-game virtual currency. (iv)Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: The Major League Gaming ( MLG ) business (which we formerly referred to as Activision Blizzard Media Networks or Media Networks), which is devoted to eSports and builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver best-in-class fan experiences across games, platforms, and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments, and premium content. The Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our extensive library of iconic and globally-recognized intellectual properties. The Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Basis of Consolidation and Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) for interim reporting. Accordingly, certain notes or other information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted if they substantially duplicate the disclosures contained in the annual audited consolidated financial statements. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. 10 The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for the fair statement of our financial position and results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been included in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company considers events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued, to provide additional evidence relative to certain estimates or to identify matters that require additional disclosures. Cost of revenues presentation In periods prior to the second quarter of 2016, we presented cost of revenues in our consolidated statements of operations in four financial statement captions: Cost of sales - product costs, Cost of sales - online, Cost of sales - software royalties and amortization, and Cost of sales - intellectual property licenses. Commencing with the second quarter of 2016, we have revised the presentation in our condensed consolidated statements of operations to more clearly align our costs of revenues with the associated revenue captions as follows: Cost of revenues - product sales: (i) Product costs - includes the manufacturing costs of goods produced and sold. These generally include product costs, manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts, personnel-related costs, warehousing, and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones). (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses - includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to product sales revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to product sales revenues. Cost of revenues - subscription, licensing, and other revenues: (i) Game operations and distribution costs - includes costs to operate our games, such as customer service, internet bandwidth and server costs, platform provider fee, and payment provider fees. (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses - includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to subscription, licensing and other revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to subscription, licensing and other revenues. 11 Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies During the nine months ended September30, 2016, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies but we did expand the accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition to include virtual currency as noted below. Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 for our full summary of significant accounting policies. Microtransaction Revenues Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual goods and currencies to our players to enhance their gameplay experience. Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods and currencies are initially recorded in deferred revenues. Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as a player uses the virtual goods purchased with the virtual currency. We categorize our virtual goods as either consumable or durable. Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed. Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time. We recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player, which is generally the estimated service period of the game. Supplemental Cash Flow Information: Non-cash investing and financing activities For the nine months ended September30, 2016, we had non-cash purchase price consideration of $89 million related to vested and unvested stock options and awards that were assumed and replaced with Activision Blizzard equity or deferred cash awards in the King Acquisition. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion. 2. Inventories, Net Our inventories, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): At September30, 2016, and December31, 2015, inventory reserves were $52 million and $54 million, respectively. 12 3. Software Development and Intellectual Property Licenses The following table summarizes the components of our capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses (amounts in millions): Intellectual property licenses are classified within Other current assets and Other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Amortization of capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses was the following (amounts in millions): 4. Intangible Assets, Net Intangible assets, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): 13 The balances of intangible assets, net presented in the table above at September30, 2016, does not include license agreement intangible assets that were fully amortized at December31, 2015, and hence have been removed from the September30, 2016 balances, as presented. Amortization expense of intangible assets was $211 million and $496 million for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively. Amortization expense of intangible assets was $2 million and $5 million for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, respectively. At September30, 2016, future amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is estimated as follows (amounts in millions): 5. Goodwill The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment for the nine months ended September30, 2016, are as follows (amounts in millions): The addition to goodwill through acquisition is attributed to the King Acquisition (see Note14 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements). 14 6. Fair Value Measurements Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) literature regarding fair value measurements for financial and non-financial assets and liabilities establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. This hierarchy requires entities to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis The table below segregates all financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis into the most appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine the fair value at the measurement date (amounts in millions): 15 ARS represented the only level3 investment held by the Company. There were no changes in the fair value of these investments for the nine months ended September30, 2016. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges For foreign currency forward contracts entered into to mitigate risk from foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings that are not designated as hedging instruments in accordance with FASB Accounting Standard Codification ( ASC ) Topic 815, changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives are recorded within General and administrative expenses and Interest and other expense (income), net in our condensed consolidated statements of operations, consistent with the nature of the underlying transactions. At September30, 2016, the gross notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges was approximately $165 million. The fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts was $4 million as of September30, 2016, and recorded in Other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. At December31, 2015, the gross notional amount of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges was approximately $489 million. The fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts was $11 million as of December31, 2015, and recorded in Other current assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were not material. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges For foreign currency forward contracts entered into to hedge forecasted intercompany cash flows that are subject to foreign currency risk and which we designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with ASC Topic 815, we assess the effectiveness of these cash flow hedges at inception and on an ongoing basis to determine if the hedges are effective at providing offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. We record the effective portion of changes in the estimated fair value of these derivatives in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassify the related amount of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings within General and administrative expense when the hedged item impacts earnings. Cash flows from these foreign currency forward contracts are classified in the same category as the cash flows associated with the hedged item in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. We measure hedge ineffectiveness, if any, and if it is determined that a derivative has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, we will discontinue hedge accounting for the derivative. 16 The gross notional amount of all outstanding foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges was approximately $599 million at September30, 2016, and $381 million at December31, 2015. These foreign currency forward contracts have remaining maturities of 15 months or less. During the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, and 2015, there was no ineffectiveness relating to these hedges. At September30, 2016, $4 million of net unrealized losses related to these contracts are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months. During the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, the amount pre-tax net realized gains reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) due to maturity of these contracts was not material. Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, and 2015, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis. 7. Debt Credit Facilities On October11, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) for a $2.5 billion secured term loan facility maturing in October2020 (the Term Loan ), and a $250 million secured revolving credit facility (the Original Revolver ). As of December31, 2015, as a result of repayments and prepayments during the prior periods, we had $1.9 billion outstanding under the Term Loan. In conjunction with the King Acquisition, we entered into three amendments to the Credit Agreement (the Amendments ). The Amendments, among other things, provided for incremental term loans in the form of trancheA term loans in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.3 billion. The proceeds were provided on February23, 2016 and were used to fund the King Acquisition. On March31, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to the Credit Agreement which provided for an incremental tranche A term loan in the aggregate principal amount of $250 million (together with the $2.3 billion tranche A term loans, the Existing TLA ); the proceeds from the incremental borrowing were used to make a voluntary prepayment on our Term Loan on March31, 2016. In addition to this prepayment, we made voluntary prepayments on our Term Loan of $500 million and $800 million on February25 and May26, 2016, respectively. On August23, 2016 we entered into a fifth amendment to the Credit Agreement (the Fifth Amendment ) that provided for new tranche A term loans of approximately $2.9 billion (the New TLA ) and an amended revolving credit facility of $250 million (the Revolver and together with the New TLA, the Credit Facilities ). Both the New TLA and Revolver are scheduled to mature on August23, 2021 and are unsecured. The proceeds from the New TLA were primarily used to pay off the remaining outstanding principal balance on the Term Loan of $319 million and the Existing TLA of $2.5 billion. As a result of the payments to extinguish the Term Loan and Existing TLA, we wrote-off unamortized discount and deferred financing costs of $10 million, which is included in Interest and other expense (income), net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. The remaining unamortized discount and deferred financing costs were deferred, along with new fees paid to the New TLA lenders, and will continue to be amortized over the maturity of the New TLA. Debt discounts and deferred financing costs incurred in relation to the Fifth Amendment were not material. 17 Borrowings under the Revolver may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed by the Company, and are available for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Up to $50 million of the Revolver may be used for letters of credit. To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver. Borrowings under the New TLA and the Revolver will bear interest, at the Company s option, at either (a)a base rate equal to the highest of (i)the federal funds rate, plus 0.5%, (ii)the prime commercial lending rate of Bank of America, N.A. and (iii)the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) for an interest period of one month beginning on such day plus 1.00%, or (b)LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable interest margin. LIBOR will be subject to a floor of 0% and the base rate will be subject to an effective floor of 1.00%. The applicable interest margin for borrowings under the New TLA and Revolver will range from 1.125% to 2.00% for LIBOR borrowings and from 0.125% to 1.00% for base rate borrowings and will be determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Company s credit ratings. At September30, 2016, the New TLA bore interest at 1.77%. The Credit Agreement requires quarterly principal payments of 0.625% of the stated principal amount of the New TLA commencing on September30, 2016, with increases to 1.250% starting on September30, 2019 and 3.125% starting on September30, 2020, with the remaining balance payable on the New TLA s scheduled maturity date of August23, 2021. On September30, 2016, in addition to the required quarterly repayment of $18 million, we made a voluntary prepayment on our New TLA of $167 million. These payments satisfied the required quarterly principal repayments through December31, 2018. The Company is subject to a financial covenant requiring the Company s Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) not to exceed (i)4.00:1.00 on or prior to March31, 2017, and (ii)thereafter, 3.50:1.00. The Fifth Amendment contains other covenants consistent with the Credit Agreement, although the Fifth Amendment provides for additional exceptions from such covenants that are customary for transactions of this type for issuers with similar credit ratings. A violation of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of such event of default or certain other customary events of default, payment of any outstanding amounts under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated, and the lenders commitments to extend credit under the Credit Agreement may be terminated. In addition, an event of default under the Credit Agreement could, under certain circumstances, permit the holders of other outstanding unsecured debt, including the debt holders described below, to accelerate the repayment of such obligations. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Credit Facilities as of September30, 2016. The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by certain of the Company s U.S. subsidiaries, whose assets represent approximately 68% of our consolidated total assets. Unsecured Senior Notes On September19, 2013, we issued, at par, $1.5 billion of 5.625% unsecured senior notes due September2021 (the Original 2021 Notes ) and $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September2023 (the 2023 Notes and, together with the Original 2021 Notes, the Notes ) in a private bond offering to qualified institutional buyers made in accordance with Rule144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities described above. The Notes are guaranteed on a senior basis by certain of our U.S. subsidiaries. The Notes and related guarantees are not secured and are effectively subordinated to any of the Company s existing and future indebtedness that is secured. The Original 2021 Notes became eligible for redemption on September15, 2016 (and, as described below, were redeemed on October19, 2016). We may redeem the 2023 Notes on or after September15, 2018, in whole or in part on any one or more occasions, at specified redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of the 2023 Notes prior to September15, 2018, at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest. Further, upon the occurrence of one or more qualified equity offerings, we may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Notes outstanding with the net cash proceeds from such offerings. 18 On September19, 2016, we issued $650 million of 2.300% unsecured senior notes due September2021 (the New 2021 Notes ) and $850 million of 3.400% unsecured senior notes due September2026 (the 2026 Notes and together with the New 2021 Notes, the New Notes ) in a private offering made in accordance with Rule144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In connection with the issuance of the New Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ), among the Company, the Guarantors and the representatives of the initial purchasers of the New Notes. Under the Registration Rights Agreement, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to within one year of the issue date of the New Notes, among other things, (1)file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange each series of the New Notes for new notes that are substantially identical in all material respects, (except for the provisions relating to the transfer restrictions and payment of additional interest) and (2)cause the registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act. We may redeem the New 2021 Notes on or after August15, 2021, and the 2026 Notes on or after June15, 2026, in whole or in part on any one or more occasions and in each case at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of the New 2021 Notes prior to August15, 2021 and some or all of the 2026 Notes prior to June15, 2026, in each case at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence of certain change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase the Notes and New Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest. These repurchase requirements are considered clearly and closely related to the Notes and New Notes and are not accounted for separately upon issuance. The Notes contain customary covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of debt, granting of liens, payment of dividends, sales of assets, and certain merger and consolidation transactions. The New Notes contain customary covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of secured debt, entry into sale or leaseback transactions, and certain merger or consolidation transactions. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Notes and New Notes as of September30, 2016. Interest on the Notes and New Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March15 and September15 of each year. As of September30, 2016, and December31, 2015, we had interest payable of $7 million and $38 million, respectively, related to the Notes and New Notes recorded within Accrued expenses and other liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. On September19, 2016 we issued an irrevocable notice to the holders of the Original 2021 Notes that we were calling those notes which then had a 30-day period before payment. On October19, 2016 we redeemed the notes in full for $1.6 billion, which resulted in a loss on extinguishment of approximately $82 million, comprised of a premium payment of $63 million and write off of unamortized discount and financing costs of $19 million. This loss was recognized at the time of extinguishment. As a result of the irrevocable notice of redemption, we presented the outstanding principal balance of the Original 2021 Notes and its related unamortized discount and deferred financing costs as Current portion of long-term debt, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September30, 2016. Debt Discounts and Deferred Financing Costs Fees and discounts associated with the closing of our debt instruments are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and is amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. 19 In connection with the debt financing for the Existing TLA and New Notes offering, we incurred $38 million and $17 million of discounts and financing costs, respectively, that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. New lender fees and deferred financing costs related to the New TLA were not material. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016: interest expense was $50 million and $158 million, respectively; amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $4 million and $16 million, respectively; and commitment fees for the Revolver were not material. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2015: interest expense was $48 million and $145 million, respectively; amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs for the Credit Facilities and Notes was $2 million and $5 million, respectively; and commitment fees for the Original Revolver were not material. A summary of our debt is as follows (amounts in millions): As of September30, 2016, the scheduled maturities and contractual principal repayments of our debt for each of the five succeeding years are as follows (amounts in millions): 20 As of September30, 2016, and December31, 2015, the carrying value of the Term Loan and New TLA approximates the fair value, based on Level 2 inputs (observable market prices in less than active markets), as the interest rate is variable over the selected interest period and is similar to current rates at which we can borrow funds. Based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the Original 2021 Notes, 2023 Notes, New 2021 Notes, and 2026 Notes were $1,565 million, $825 million, $652 million, and $854 million, respectively, as of September30, 2016. Based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the Original 2021 Notes and 2023 Notes were $1,571 million and $795 million, respectively, as of December31, 2015. Debt Repayments On February2, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized debt repayments of up to $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt during 2016. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, we have made payments to reduce our total outstanding term loans by $1.5billion. 8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at September30, 2016 and 2015, were as follows (amounts in millions): Income taxes were not provided for foreign currency translation items as these are considered indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. 9. Operating Segments and Geographic Region Our operating segments are consistent with our internal organizational structure, the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ), the manner in which we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. Currently, we have three reportable operating segments (see Note1 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements). We do not aggregate operating segments in determining and disclosing our reportable segments. The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting, and fees and other expenses related to financings and acquisitions. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and, accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Information on the operating segments and reconciliations of total net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 are presented below (amounts in millions): 21 (1) Other includes other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Other also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses related to the King Acquisition, inclusive of related debt financings and integration costs. 22 Geographic information presented below for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, is based on the location of the paying customer. Net revenues from external customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) EMEA consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions. The Company s net revenues in the U.S. were 43% and 46% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% and 13% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. No other country s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. The Company s net revenues in the U.S. were 46% and 50% of consolidated net revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% and 13% of consolidated net revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. No other country s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. Net revenues by platform were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from PC includes revenues that were historically shown as Online. (2) Net revenues from mobile and ancillary includes revenues from handheld, mobile and tablet devices, as well as non-platform specific game-related revenues such as standalone sales of toys and accessories from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (3) Net revenues from Other include revenues from MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Long-lived assets by geographic region at September30, 2016, and December31, 2015, were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) The only long-lived assets that we classify by region are our long-term tangible fixed assets, which only include property, plant, and equipment assets; all other long-term assets are not allocated by location. 23 10. Income Taxes The Company accounts for its provision for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year. The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits, and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. The income tax expense of $32 million for the three months ended September30, 2016, reflects an effective tax rate of 14%, which is higher than the effective tax rate of 13% for the three months ended September30, 2015. The increase is due to the change in the mix of domestic and foreign earnings and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments (see Note15 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements) and favorable return to provision adjustments. The income tax expense of $93 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016, reflects an effective tax rate of 12%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 20% for the nine months ended September30, 2015. The decrease is due to the change in the mix of domestic and foreign earnings, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, the net benefit related to the settlement of an income tax audit during the first quarter of 2016, and favorable return to provision adjustments, partially offset by increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 14% for the three months ended September30, 2016 differs from the US statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, favorable return to provision adjustments, and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 12% for the nine months ended September30, 2016 differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, the net benefit related to the settlement of an income tax audit during the first quarter of 2016, favorable return to provision adjustments, and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The overall effective income tax rate for the year will be dependent, in part, on our profitability for the remainder of the year, as well as the other factors described above. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) is currently examining Activision Blizzard s federal tax returns for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company transitioned the review of its transfer pricing methodology from the advanced pricing agreement review process to the IRS examination team. Their review could result in a different allocation of profits and losses under the Company s transfer pricing agreements. Such allocation could have a positive or negative impact on our provision for uncertain tax positions for the period in which such a determination is reached and the relevant periods thereafter. In addition, as part of purchase price accounting for the King Acquisition, the Company assumed $93 million of uncertain tax positions primarily related to the transfer pricing on King tax years occurring prior to the King Acquisition. The Company is currently in negotiations with the relevant jurisdictions and taxing authorities, which could result in a different allocation of profits and losses between the relevant jurisdictions. Vivendi Games results for the period from January1, 2008 through July9, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign state and local income tax returns filed by Vivendi or its affiliates, while Vivendi Games results for the period from July10, 2008 through December31, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state and local income tax returns filed by Activision Blizzard. IRS Appeals proceedings concerning Vivendi Games tax return for the 2008 tax year were concluded during July2016, but that year remains open to examination by other major taxing authorities. The resolution of the 2008 IRS Appeals process did not have a material impact to the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements. 24 Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by tax authorities in various jurisdictions, including France. These proceedings may lead to adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or provisions for uncertain tax positions. Such proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. If we were to receive a materially adverse assessment from a taxing jurisdiction, we would plan to vigorously contest it and consider all of our options, including the pursuit of judicial remedies. The final resolution of the Company s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations, except as noted above. However, the Company s global tax disputes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. In 2013, in connection with a share repurchase from Vivendi (the Purchase Transaction ), we assumed certain tax attributes, generally consisting of net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards of approximately $760 million, which represent a potential future tax benefit of approximately $266 million. The utilization of such NOL carryforwards will be subject to certain annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2021. The Company also obtained indemnification from Vivendi against losses attributable to the disallowance of claimed utilization of such NOL carryforwards of up to $200 million in unrealized tax benefits in the aggregate, limited to taxable years ending on or prior to December31, 2016. No benefit for these tax attributes or indemnification was recorded upon the close of the Purchase Transaction. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, we utilized $291 million of the NOL, which resulted in a tax benefit of $102 million, and a corresponding reserve of $102 million was established. As of September30, 2016, an indemnification asset of $191 million has been recorded in Other Assets, and, correspondingly, the same amount has been recorded as a reduction to the consideration paid for the shares repurchased in Treasury Stock. 11. Computation of Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share (amounts in millions, except per share data): 25 Certain of our unvested restricted stock rights (including certain restricted stock units and performance shares) met the definition of participating securities as they participate in earnings based on their rights to dividends or dividend equivalents. Therefore, we are required to use the two-class method in our computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, on a weighted-average basis, we had outstanding unvested restricted stock rights with respect to 2 million and 3 million shares of common stock, respectively, that are participating in earnings. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, on a weighted-average basis, we had outstanding unvested restricted stock rights with respect to 8 million and 9 million shares of common stock, respectively, that are participating in earnings. Certain of our employee-related restricted stock rights and options are contingently issuable upon the satisfaction of pre-defined performance measures. These shares are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period. Approximately 10 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as their respective performance measures had not yet been met. Approximately 4 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, as their respective performance measures had not yet been met. Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. Therefore, options to acquire 1 million and 4 million shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively, and options to acquire 1 million shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. 12. Capital Transactions Repurchase Program On February3, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we may repurchase up to $750 millionof our common stock during the two-year period from February9, 2015 through February8, 2017. As of September30, 2016, we have not repurchased any shares under this program. Dividends On February2, 2016, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on May11, 2016, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2016. On May11, 2016, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $192 million to such shareholders, and on May27, 2016, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock rights. On February3, 2015, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.23 per common share, payable on May13, 2015, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2015. On May13, 2015, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $167 million to such shareholders, and on May29, 2015, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock rights. 26 13. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings SEC regulations govern disclosure of legal proceedings in periodic reports and ASC Topic 450 governs the disclosure of loss contingencies and accrual of loss contingencies in respect of litigation and other claims. We record an accrual for a potential loss when it is probable that a loss will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. When the reasonable estimate of the potential loss is within a range of amounts, the minimum of the range of potential loss is accrued, unless a higher amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range. Moreover, even if an accrual is not required, we provide additional disclosure related to litigation and other claims when it is reasonably possible (i.e.,more than remote) that the outcomes of such litigation and other claims include potential material adverse impacts on us. The outcomes of legal proceedings and other claims are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of these matters, including the probability determination and whether a potential exposure can be reasonably estimated. In making these determinations, we, in consultation with outside counsel, examine the relevant facts and circumstances on a quarterly basis assuming, as applicable, a combination of settlement and litigated outcomes and strategies. Moreover, legal matters are inherently unpredictable and the timing of development of factors on which reasonable judgments and estimates can be based can be slow. As such, there can be no assurance that the final outcome of any legal matter will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, profitability, cash flows, or liquidity. We are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, such routine claims and lawsuits are not significant and we do not expect them to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 14. Acquisitions King Digital Entertainment plc On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ), we completed the King Acquisition under the terms of the Transaction Agreement, purchasing all of the outstanding shares of King. As a result, King became a wholly owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard. King is a leading interactive entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly-complementary mobile business will position the Company as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. 27 The aggregate purchase price of the King Acquisition was approximately $5.8 billion, which was paid on the King Closing Date and funded primarily with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. The total aggregate purchase price for King was comprised of (amounts in millions): (1) Represents the cash consideration paid based on $18.00 per share to common stock holders of King and the fair value of King s existing vested options and awards that were cash settled at the King Closing Date for the portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services. No future services are required. (2) Represents the fair value of King s existing vested and unvested stock options and awards that were assumed and replaced with Activision Blizzard equity or deferred cash awards. The purchase price includes the portion of fair value related to pre-combination services. The fair value of the options and awards assumed was determined using binomial-lattice and Monte Carlo models with the following assumptions: (a) volatility of 36%, (b) time varying risk free interest rates based on the U.S. Treasury yield curves, (c) an expected life ranging from approximately 0.1 years to 7.6 years, and (d) an expected dividend yield of 0.9%. See additional discussion under Stock-Based Compensation below. The Company identified and recorded assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values at the King Closing Date, and allocated the remaining value of approximately $2.7 billion to goodwill. The values assigned to certain acquired assets and liabilities are preliminary, and are based on information available as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q. Additional information may become available subsequently and may result in changes in the values allocated to various assets and liabilities, including the fair value of identified intangible assets, deferred income taxes, and contingent liabilities. Any changes in the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the measurement period of up to 12 months from the King Closing Date may result in material adjustments to goodwill. During the three months ended September30, 2016, we recorded a measurement period adjustment for certain liabilities recorded in our preliminary purchase price allocation based on additional analysis of facts and circumstances that existed as of the King Closing Date.The adjustment resulted in an increase to other liabilities and goodwill and was not material. The preliminary purchase price allocation was as follows (amounts in millions): 28 During the nine months ended September30, 2016, the Company incurred $38 million of expenses related to the King Acquisition, which are included within General and administrative in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the debt financing that occurred on the King Closing Date, we incurred $38 million of issuance costs that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The amortization of these capitalized costs was not material to our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016. Stock-Based Compensation In connection with the King Acquisition, a majority of the outstanding King options and awards that were unvested as of the King Closing Date were converted into equivalent options and awards with respect to shares of the Company s common stock, using an equity award exchange ratio calculated in accordance with the Transaction Agreement. As a result, replacement equity options and awards of 10 million and 3 million, respectively, were issued in connection with the King Acquisition. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $76 million was included in the purchase price while the remaining fair value will be recognized over the remaining service periods. As of September30, 2016, the future expense for the converted King unvested options and awards was approximately $53 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 1.8 years. The remaining portion of outstanding unvested awards that were assumed were replaced with deferred cash awards. The cash proceeds were placed in an escrow-like account with the cash releases to occur based on the awards original vesting schedule upon future service being rendered. The cash associated with these awards is recorded in Other current assets and Other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $22 million was included in the purchase price while the remaining fair value of approximately $9 million will be recognized over the remaining service periods. A portion of the cash proceeds placed in an escrow-like account were released to award holders, but the amount was not material. Identifiable Intangible Assets Acquired and Goodwill The preliminary fair values of the identifiable intangible assets acquired from King were estimated using an income approach, with the exception of the customer base, which was estimated using a cost approach. The fair value of the intangibles using the income approach was determined with the following key assumptions: (a)a weighted average cost of capital of 13%, (b)long-term revenue decay rates ranging from 0% to 65%, and (c)royalty rates ranging from 0.5% to 8%. The fair value of the intangibles using the cost approach was based on amounts that would be required to replace the asset (i.e., replacement cost). The Internally-developed franchises, Customer base, Developed software, and Trademark intangible assets will be amortized to Cost of revenues - subscription, licensing, and other revenues - software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, Sales and marketing, Cost of revenues - subscription, licensing, and other revenues - software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, and General and administrative, respectively. The intangible assets will be amortized over their estimated useful lives in proportion to the economic benefits received. The $2.7 billion of goodwill recognized is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from accelerated expansion as an interactive entertainment provider in the mobile sector, future franchises, and technology, as well as the management team s proven ability to create future games and franchises. Approximately $620 million of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes in the U.S. 29 Contingent Liabilities Assumed As a result of the King Acquisition, we assumed contingent liabilities related to contingent consideration associated with King s previous acquisitions of Nonstop Games Oy and Z2Live,Inc. The remaining contingent consideration for Non Stop Games Oy is linked to amounts generated from games launched by Nonstop Games Oy over a specified period. The range of the potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the Company could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is from $0 to $84 million. The remaining contingent consideration for Z2Live,Inc. is linked to amounts generated from specific games launched by Z2Live,Inc. within a defined period. The potential range of undiscounted future payments that the Company could be required to make under the contingent consideration arrangement is from $0 to $75 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement at the King Closing date and as of September30, 2016, for Nonstop Games Oy and Z2Live,Inc. was immaterial. King Net Revenue and Earnings The amount of net revenue and earnings attributable to King in the Company s condensed consolidated statement of operations during the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, are included in the table below. The amounts presented represent the net revenues and earnings after adjustments for purchase price accounting, inclusive of amortization of intangible assets, share-based payments, and deferral of revenues and related cost of revenues. Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations of the Company and King, on a pro forma basis, as though the acquisition had occurred on January1, 2015. The pro forma financial information presented includes the effects of adjustments related to amortization charges from acquired intangible assets, employee compensation from replacement equity awards issued in the King Acquisition and the profit sharing bonus plan established as part of the King Acquisition, and interest expense from the new debt, among other adjustments. We also adjusted for Activision Blizzard and King non-recurring acquisition related costs of approximately $69 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016. Non-recurring acquisition related costs for the three months ended September30, 2016 were not material. The pro forma financial information as presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the King Acquisition, and any borrowings undertaken to finance the King Acquisition, had taken place at the beginning of the earliest period presented, nor does it intend to be a projection of future results. 30 15. Recently issued accounting pronouncements Recently adopted accounting pronouncements Stock-based compensation In June2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to stock compensation. The new standard requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the periods for which the requisite service has already been rendered. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Consolidations In February2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to consolidations. The new standard amends certain requirements for determining whether a variable interest entity must be consolidated. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Debt Issuance Costs In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs in financial statements. The new standard requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. We adopted this change in accounting principle as of January1, 2016, and applied it retrospectively for each period presented. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Internal-Use Software In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to internal-use software. The new standard relates to a customer s accounting for fees paid in cloud computing arrangements. The amendment provides guidance for customers to determine whether such arrangements include software licenses. If a cloud arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. We adopted this standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Business Combinations In September2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to business combinations. The new standard requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement period adjustment, including the impact on prior periods, on provisional amounts recorded at the acquisition date as a result of the business combination be recognized in the reporting period the adjustment is identified. The standard also requires separate presentation on the face of the income statement, or disclosure in the notes, of the portion of the amount recorded in current period earnings by line item. Prior to the issuance of the standard, such adjustments to provisional amounts were recognized retrospectively. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. No measurement period adjustments impacting earnings occurred as of and for the nine months ended September30, 2016. 31 Share-Based Payments In March2016, the FASB issued new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payments. The new standard, amongst other things: requires that all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be recorded as an income tax expense or benefit in the statement of operations and that the tax effects of exercised or vested awards be treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur; requires excess tax benefits from share-based payments to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows; and permits an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate, as currently required, or account for forfeitures when they occur. We elected to early adopt this new standard in the third quarter of 2016, which requires us to reflect any adjustments as of January1, 2016. As part of the adoption, we made certain elections, including the following: to apply the presentation requirements for our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows related to excess tax benefits retrospectively to all periods presented; and to continue to estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate. As a result of the adoption we recognized excess tax benefits of $12 million and $63 million as a reduction to income tax expense in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively. The adoption of the standard impacted our previously reported quarterly results and financial positions for fiscal year 2016 as follows: 32 Given our retrospective application of the presentation requirements for our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows related to excess tax benefits, our net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in financing activities increased $33 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015. The other provisions of the standard did not have a material impact on our financial statements. Statement of Cash Flows In August2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of certain cash items in the statement of cash flows. The new standard requires, among other things, that cash payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs should be classified as cash outflows for financing activities, as opposed to operating activities as is required under existing guidance. We elected to early adopt this standard in the current period and applied it retrospectively. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted Revenue recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017, and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the adoption method as well as the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. While we are currently evaluating the method of adoption and the impact of the new revenue standard on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, we believe the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard may have a significant impact on the accounting for our sales of our games with significant online functionality for which we do not have vendor-specific-objective-evidence( VSOE ) for unspecified future updates and ongoing online services provided. Under the current accounting standards, VSOE for undelivered elements is required. This requirement is eliminated under the new standard. Accordingly, we may be required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, as compared to the current requirement of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated offering period. While we are still currently evaluating the impact of the new standard, the impact of this identified difference in accounting may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 33 Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either a operating or financing lease and lessees will need to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received and any prepaid lease payments. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Inventory In July2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016 and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Financial Instruments In January2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, amongst other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amendments related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) should be applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 34 Item2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview Activision Blizzard,Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc., and its subsidiaries. Activision Blizzard is the result of the 2008 business combination ( Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), Sego Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision,Inc., VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), VGACLLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of VGACLLC. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc., was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. As of December31, 2015, ASAC II LP, an exempted limited partnership established under the laws of the Cayman Islands ( ASAC LP ), held approximately 172 million shares, or approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at that time. Robert A. Kotick, our Chief Executive Officer, and Brian G. Kelly, Chairman of our Board of Directors, are the managers of ASAC II LLC, the general partner of ASAC LP ( ASAC GP ). On June8, 2016, ASAC GP distributed the approximately 141 million shares allocable to the limited partners of ASAC LP to those limited partners. On July7, 2016, ASAC LP distributed approximately 18 million of its remaining approximately 31 million shares to ASAC GP. On August15, 2016, ASAC GP sold approximately 4 million shares of our common stock and distributed 14 million shares pro rata to its members, consisting of trusts for the benefit of Messrs.Kotick and Kelly, which shares were ultimately sold on that day for financial and estate-planning purposes. On August19, 2016, ASAC LP distributed its remaining shares of common stock to ASAC GP, leaving ASAC LP without any shares and ASAC GP with approximately 13 million shares of our common stock, which represented approximately 2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of September30, 2016. We did not receive any proceeds fromany of the distributions or sales of the shares. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On November2, 2015, we and King Digital Entertainment plc ( King ), a leading interactive mobile entertainment company ( King ), entered into a transaction agreement (the Transaction Agreement ) under the terms of which we would acquire King (the King Acquisition ) and King would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ), we completed the King Acquisition under the terms of the Transaction Agreement and purchased all of the outstanding shares of King. The aggregate purchase price of King was approximately $5.8 billion, which was paid on the King Closing Date and funded with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly-complementary mobile business positions the Company as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. Reportable Segments Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable operating segments: Activision Publishing,Inc., Blizzard Entertainment,Inc., and King Digital Entertainment Limited. 35 (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and content. Activision delivers content to a broad range of gamers, ranging from children to adults, and from core gamers to mass-market consumers, in a variety of geographies. Activision develops, markets, and sells products through retail channels or digital downloads, which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, including games in the Call of Duty and Skylanders franchises, as well as some licensed properties. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny. Activision currently offers games that operate on: the Microsoft Corporation ( Microsoft ) Xbox One ( Xbox One ) and Xbox 360 ( Xbox 360 ), Nintendo Co. Ltd. ( Nintendo ) Wii U ( Wii U ) and Wii ( Wii ), and Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. ( Sony ) PlayStation 4 ( PS4 ) and PlayStation 3 ( PS3 ) console systems; the PC; the Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo Dual Screen, and Sony PlayStation Vita handheld game systems; and mobile and tablet devices. (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ) is a leader in online PC gaming, including the subscription-based massively multi-player online role-playing game category, in terms of both subscriber base and revenues generated through its World of Warcraft franchise. Blizzard also develops, markets, and sells role-playing action and strategy games for the PC, console, mobile, and tablet platforms, including games in the multiple-award winning Diablo , StarCraft , Hearthstone : Heroes of Warcraft , and Heroes of the Storm franchises. On May 24, 2016, Blizzard added a new franchise, Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter available on the PC and console platforms. In addition, Blizzard maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Battle.net , which facilitates digital distribution and online social connectivity across all Blizzard games. Blizzard distributes its products and generates revenues worldwide through various means, including subscriptions, sales of prepaid subscription cards, in-game purchases and services, retail sales of physical boxed products, online sales of downloadable PC products, purchases and downloads via third-party console, mobile, and tablet platforms, and licensing of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. (iii)King Digital Entertainment Limited King Digital Entertainment Limited ( King ) is a leading interactive mobile entertainment company that develops and distributes games on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King has four established free-to-play franchises: Candy Crush , Farm Heroes , Bubble Witch , and Pet Rescue , where monetization occurs through players purchasing virtual items and in-game virtual currency. (iv)Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: The Major League Gaming ( MLG ) business (which we formerly referred to as Activision Blizzard Media Networks or Media Networks), which is devoted to eSports and builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver best-in-class fan experiences across games, platforms, and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments, and premium content. The Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our extensive library of iconic and globally-recognized intellectual properties. The Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistical, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. 36 Business Highlights For the three months ended September30, 2016, Activision Blizzard had net revenues of $1.6 billion, as compared to net revenues of approximately $1.0 billion for the same period in 2015. For the three months ended September30, 2016, Activision Blizzard had earnings per diluted share of $0.26, as compared to earnings per diluted share of $0.17 for the same period in 2015. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, Activision Blizzard had net revenues of $4.6 billion, as compared to net revenues of $3.3 billion for the same period in 2015. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, Activision Blizzard had earnings per diluted share of $0.94, as compared to earnings per diluted share of $0.98 for the same period in 2015. Net revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 include a net effect of $62 million from the deferral of net revenues. Net revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 include a net effect of $447 million from the recognition of deferred net revenues. Since certain games are hosted or include online functionality that represents an essential component of gameplay and, as a result, a more-than-inconsequential separate deliverable, we initially defer the software-related revenues from the sale and recognize the revenues attributable to these games over their estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year. Also, for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as a result of the King Acquisition, our net revenues include $447 million and $1,088 million, respectively, and our net income includes $(72) million and $(171) million from King s operations, respectively, after adjustments for purchase price accounting, inclusive of amortization of intangible assets, share-based payments, and deferral of revenues and related cost of revenues. Our earnings under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) are expected to be down versus prior-year as the expected results will be impacted by accounting charges associated with the King Acquisition, which include, among other things, integration and acquisition-related costs, the amortization of intangible assets resulting from purchase price accounting adjustments, share-based payments, and the related tax impact from the King Acquisition. The majority of these GAAP accounting charges will not impact the economics or operating cash flows of our business, although they will have a material impact on our 2016 GAAP results. On August23, 2016, we amended our Credit Agreement to refinance our term loans and revolver under the Credit Agreement. As a result of the amendment, we obtained $2.9 billion in proceeds in the form of a new tranche A term loan, of which the proceeds were used to pay-off our then outstanding term loans of $2.9 billion, which bore interest at higher rates. The refinancing resulted in a write-off of unamortized discount and deferred financing costs attributed to the existing term loans of $10 million, with the remaining unamortized discount and financing costs being deferred along with new costs incurred with the amendment. Additionally, on September19, 2016, we issued two series of senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion in a private 144A offering, of which the proceeds were used to redeem our then existing 2021 Notes of $1.5 billion on October19, 2016 at a repayment price of $1.6 billion. The repayment resulted in a loss on extinguishment of approximately $82 million that was recognized in October2016, inclusive of prepayment premiums and the write-off of debt discount and deferred financing costs. As a result of the offering we incurred debt discount and financing costs of $17 million which were capitalized in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. On February2, 2016, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per common share, payable on May11, 2016, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2016. On May11, 2016, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $192 million to such shareholders, and on May27, 2016, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock rights. Activision Blizzard Recent and Upcoming Product Releases We have recently released or expect to release the following titles and games, among other titles: Activision released Call of Duty: Black Ops III Descent , the third downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Black Ops III, on the PS4 on July 12, 2016, and released it on Xbox One and PC on August 11, 2016. Blizzard released the Summer Games event, a limited time event for Overwatch that included a soccer-like game mode and special seasonal cosmetic items , on August 2, 2016. 37 Blizzard released One Night in Karazhan , a new adventure for Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft , on August 11, 2016. Blizzard released World of Warcraft: Legion , the sixth expansion for Blizzard s acclaimed massively multiplayer online role-playing game, on August 30, 2016. Activision released Call of Duty: Black Ops III Salvation , the fourth and final downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Black Ops III, on the PS4 on September 6, 2016, and on Xbox One and PC on October 6, 2016. Activision released Destiny: Rise of Iron , a large expansion in the Destiny universe, on September 20, 2016. Blizzard released the Halloween Terror event, a limited time event for Overwatch that included a player versus environment game mode and special seasonal cosmetic items, on October 11, 2016. Activision released Skylanders Imaginators , the next iteration in the Skylanders franchise, on October 16, 2016. Activision expects to release Call of Duty : Infinite Warfare and Infinite Warfare Legacy Edition , featuring Modern Warfare Remastered , on the PS4, Xbox One, and PC on November 4, 2016. Monthly Active Users ( MAUs ) We monitor MAUs as a key measure of the overall size of our user base and its regular engagement with our portfolio of games. MAUs are the number of individuals who played a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.An individual who plays two of our games would be counted as two users.In addition, due to technical limitations with respect to Activision and King MAUs, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users.For Blizzard MAUs, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user. The number of MAUs for a given period can be significantly impacted by the timing of new content releases, since new releases may cause a temporary surge in MAUs. Accordingly, although we believe that overall trending in the number of MAUs can be a meaningful performance metric, period-to-period fluctuations may not be indicative of longer-term trends. The following table details our average MAUs on a sequential quarterly basis for our reportable segments (amounts in millions): Average MAUs decreased by 9 million, or 2%, for the quarter ended September30, 2016, as compared to the quarter ended June30, 2016. The decrease in King s average MAUs is due to the performance of more mature titles, partially offset by the release of Farm Heroes Super Saga in June 2016. The decrease in Activision s average MAUs is due to the timing of slate releases as Call of Duty: Black Ops III was launched in November 2015 and MAUs for a given title generally decline over time. The decrease is partially offset by the increase in Blizzard s average MAUs, driven by the release of Overwatch and World of Warcraft: Legion . Average MAUs decreased by 66million, or 12%, for the quarter ended September30, 2016, as compared to the quarter ended September30, 2015. The decrease in King s average MAUs is due to the performance of more mature titles, partially offset by the release of new titles during the past twelve months, most notably Candy Crush Jelly Saga and Farm Heroes Super Saga. This decrease is partially offset by the increase in Blizzard s average MAUs, driven by the release of Overwatch and World of Warcraft: Legion. 38 Management s Overview of Business Trends Digital Online Channel Revenues We provide our products through both retail and digital distribution channels. Many of our video games that are available through retailers as physical boxed software products are also available digitally, from our websites and from websites and digital distribution channels owned by third parties. In addition, we offer players digital downloadable content as add-ons to our products (e.g., new multi-player content packs or in-game microtransaction purchases), generally for a one-time fee. We also offer subscription-based services and other value-added services forWorld of Warcraft, all of which are digitally delivered and hosted by Battle.net. We currently define sales via digital online channels as revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, licensing royalties, value-added services, downloadable content, microtransaction purchases, and products. This definition may differ from that used by our competitors or other companies. According to Activision Blizzard internal estimates, overall industry digital gaming revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016, increased by approximately 41% as compared to the same period in 2015, with mobile growth at 62%.The primary drivers of the increase in digital gaming revenues were increases in microtransaction purchases and consumer purchases of full games and other content via digital channels. In addition to increasing microtransaction purchases within free-to-play games, the increase includes microtransaction purchases within purchased game software, as publishers offer increasingly new opportunities for monetization within their games to extend and enlarge the monetization cycle. Digital revenues are an important part of our business, and we continue to focus on and develop products, such as downloadable content, that can be delivered via digital channels. The amount of our digital revenues in any period may fluctuate depending in part on the timing and nature of our specific product releases. Our sales of digital downloadable content are driven in part by sales of, and engagement by players in, our retail products. As such, lower revenues in our retail distribution channels in a year may impact our revenues through digital online channels in the subsequent year. For the three months ended September30, 2016, revenues through digital online channels increased by $715 million, as compared to the same period in 2015, and represented 86% of our total consolidated net revenues, as compared to 64% for the same period in 2015. The digital online channel revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 includes a net effect of $158 million deferral of net revenues. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, revenues through digital online channels increased by $1,633 million, as compared to the same period in 2015, and represented 74% of our total consolidated net revenues, as compared to 54% for the same period in 2015. The digital online channel revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 include a net effect of $288 million deferral of net revenues. Concentration of Top Titles The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive software industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 33% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2015. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues has historically been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises and these video games have been responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, the Call of Duty, World of Warcraft, Skylanders, and Destiny franchises combined accounted for 71% of our consolidated net revenues, and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income, for 2015. As a result, successful competition against these titles can significantly impact our performance. 39 We are continually exploring additional investments in existing and future franchises. During 2015, we releasedHeroes of the Storm, Call of Duty Onlinein China, and on May24, 2016, we released Overwatch. Additionally, on February23, 2016, we completed the King Acquisition, diversifying our portfolio of key franchises and increasing our presence in the mobile market. We see similar concentration of key titles accounting for a disproportionate amount of digital sales in that market. According to the U.S. ranking for the Apple App Store, per App Annie Intelligence, seven mobile titles remained in the top 10 ranking of gross sales for all four quarters during 2015. Overall, we expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our, and the industry s, revenues and profits in the near future. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data The following table sets forth condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated in dollars and as a percentage of total net revenues, except for cost of revenues, which are presented as a percentage of associated revenues (amounts in millions): (1)In periods prior to the second quarter of 2016, we presented cost of revenues in our consolidated statements of operations in four financial statement captions: Cost of sales - product costs, Cost of sales - online, Cost of sales - software royalties and amortization, and Cost of sales - intellectual property licenses. Commencing with the second quarter of 2016, we have revised the presentation in our condensed consolidated statements of operations to more clearly align our costs of revenues with the associated revenue captions as follows: 40 Cost of revenues - product sales: (i) Product costs - includes the manufacturing cost of goods produced and sold. This generally includes product costs, manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts, personnel-related costs, warehousing, and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones). (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses - includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to product sales revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to product sales revenues. Cost of revenues - subscription, licensing, and other revenues: (i) Game operations and distribution costs - includes costs to operate our games, such as customer service, internet bandwidth and server costs, platform provider fees, and payment provider fees. (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses - includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to subscription, licensing and other revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to subscription, licensing, and other revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Operating Segment Results Our operating segments are consistent with our internal organizational structure, the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ), the manner in which we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments in determining and disclosing our reportable segments. The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting, and fees and other expenses related to financings and acquisitions. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Information on the operating segments and reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 are presented in the table below (amounts in millions): 41 (1) Other segments includes other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Other also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses related to the King Acquisition, inclusive of related debt financings and integration costs. Segment Net Revenues Activision Activision s net revenues decreased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: 42 Lower revenues from standalone toys and accessories from the Skylanders franchise. Additionally, Skylanders Imaginators was released in October 2016 while the comparable prior year title, Skylanders Superchargers , was released in September 2015. Lower revenues from the Destiny franchise, as there were two expansion packs in 2015 House of Wolves and The Taken King but only one in 2016 Rise of Iron . The decrease was partially offset by: Higher revenues from digital content associated with Call of Duty: Black Ops III as compared to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare . Revenues from microtransactions from Destiny , which were introduced into the Destiny franchise in the fourth quarter of 2015. Blizzard Blizzard s net revenues increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Revenues from Overwatch, a new team-based first-person shooter released in May 2016. Higher revenues from World of Warcraft driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2015. For the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, the increase was partially offset by lower revenues from the Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft franchise due to the release of One Night in Karazhan, an adventure, in August2016 while the prior year comparable period included the release of The Grand Tournament , an expansion which included higher priced offerings, in August 2015. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, the increase was partially offset by: Lower revenues from Diablo III: Reaper of Souls in China, which was released in the second quarter of 2015 with no comparable release in 2016. Lower revenues from Heroes of the Storm . King King s net revenues represent the net revenues from the King Closing Date through September30, 2016. The revenues were primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise, which included the release of Candy Crush Jelly Saga in January2016. Segment Income from Operations Activision Activision s operating income remained flat for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, despite the decrease in revenues. This was primarily due to: An increased percentage of revenues coming from higher margin online digital channels, driven by Call of Duty: Black Ops III . Lower sales and marketing spending on Guitar Hero Live and the Destiny franchise. 43 Activision s operating income increased for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, despite the decrease in revenues. The increase was due to the same factors noted above for the three months ended September30, 2016, partially offset by increased product development costs. Blizzard Blizzard s operating income increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to higher revenues. This was partially offset by higher sales and marketing and product development spending to support the current product releases. King King s operating income for the nine months ended September30, 2016 represents the operating income from the acquisition close date through September30, 2016. Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $10 million and $21 million on Activision Blizzard s segment net revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively, as compared to the same periods in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the United States ( U.S. ) dollar relative to the euro and British pound. Net Revenues by Distribution Channel The following table details our consolidated net revenues by distribution channel for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by distribution channel for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, was as follows (amounts in millions): (1)We define revenues from digital online channels as revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, licensing royalties, value-added services, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products. (2)Net revenues from Other include revenues from our MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. 44 Digital Online Channel Net Revenues Net Revenues Net revenues from digital online channels increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: New revenues from King titles following the King Closing Date, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise. Revenues recognized from Overwatch, a new team-based first-person shooter released in May 2016. Higher revenues recognized from digital content associated with Call of Duty: Black Ops III as compared to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare . The increase in net revenues from digital online channels for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was also driven by higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. The increase for the nine months ended September30, 2016, was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November 2014, for which a majority of the revenues were recognized in 2015 based on an estimated service period. Meanwhile, World of Warcraft: Legion released in August 2016 but the associated game revenues are largely deferred and will be recognized in future periods over an estimated service period. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Deferred revenues recognized from digital online channels decreased for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to the deferrals of revenues associated with the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August2016, as compared to the recognition of deferred revenues in 2015 from the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014. The decrease was partially offset by recognition of deferred revenues associated with the release of Overwatch. Deferred revenues recognized from digital online channels decreased for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Deferral of revenues associated with the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, as compared to the recognition of deferred revenues from the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in 2015. Deferral of revenues associated with the release of Overwatch. The decrease was partially offset by: Higher deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. Lower deferral of revenues from the Destiny franchise associated with the release of Rise of Iron in September 2016, as compared to the release of The Taken King in September 2015. Retail Channel Net Revenues Net Revenues Net revenues from retail channels decreased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to lower revenues from standalone toys and accessories from the Skylanders franchise. Additionally, Skylanders Imaginators was released in October2016 while the comparable prior year title, Skylanders Superchargers, was released in September2015. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, the decrease was also due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, asDestiny wasreleased in the third quarter of 2014, with no comparable full-game release in 2015. 45 The decrease was partially offset by revenues recognized from the release of Overwatch in May2016. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, the decrease was also partially offset by higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Deferred revenues recognized from retail channels increased for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Lower deferral of revenues from the Destiny franchise associated with the release of Rise of Iron in September 2016, as compared to the release of The Taken King in September 2015. Higher deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014. Deferred revenues recognized from retail channels decreased for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Lower deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, as Destiny was released in the third quarter of 2014, with no comparable full-game release in 2015. Deferral of revenues associated with Overwatch , which released in May 2016. The decrease was partially offset by: Higher deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014. Deferred revenues recognized from Guitar Hero Live , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015. Net Revenues by Geographic Region The following table details our consolidated net revenues by geographic region for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by geographic region for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (amounts in millions): (1) EMEA consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africageographic regions. 46 Americas Net Revenues Net revenues from the Americas increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: New revenues from King titles since the King Closing Date, with the revenues primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise. Revenues recognized from Overwatch, a new team-based first-person shooter released in May 2016. Higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014, including, in each case, the associated digital content. The increases were partially offset by: Lower revenues from standalone toys and accessories from the Skylanders franchise. Additionally, Skylanders Imaginators was released in October 2016 while the comparable prior year title, Skylanders Superchargers , was released in September 2015. Lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, as Destiny debuted in September 2014 but had no comparable full-game release in 2015. The prior year also included higher revenues recognized from the multiple Destiny expansion pack releases, including The Dark Below (released December 2014) and The House of Wolves (released in May 2015), without comparable releases in 2016. Additionally, for the nine months ended September30, 2016, the increases were partially offset by lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014, for which a majority of the revenues were recognized in 2015 based on an estimated service period. Meanwhile, World of Warcraft: Legion released in August2016 but the associated game revenues are largely deferred and will be recognized in future periods over an estimated service period. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Deferred revenues recognized increased for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Lower deferral of revenues from the Destiny franchise associated with the release of Rise of Iron in September 2016, as compared to the release of The Taken King in September 2015. Recognition of deferred revenues associated with the release of Overwatch . The increase was partially offset by deferrals of revenues associated with the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August2016, as compared to the recognition of deferred revenues in 2015 from the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014. Deferred revenues recognized decreased for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Deferrals of revenues associated with the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, as compared to the recognition of deferred revenues in 2015 from the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November 2014. Deferral of revenues associated with the release of Overwatch. This decrease was partially offset by increased deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare. 47 EMEA Net Revenues Net revenues from the EMEA regions increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: New revenues from King titles since the King Closing Date, with the revenues primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise. Revenues recognized from Overwatch, a new team-based first-person shooter released in May 2016. Higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014, including, in each case, the associated digital content. The increases were partially offset by lower revenues from standalone toys and accessories from the Skylanders franchise. Additionally, Skylanders Imaginators was released in October2016 while the comparable prior year title, Skylanders Superchargers, was released in September2015. Additionally, for the nine months ended September30, 2016, the increases were partially offset by lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014, for which a majority of the revenues were recognized in 2015 based on an estimated service period. Meanwhile, World of Warcraft: Legion released in August2016 but the associated game revenues are largely deferred and will be recognized in future periods over an estimated service period. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Deferred revenues recognize decreased for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to deferrals of revenues associated with the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August2016, as compared to the recognition of deferred revenues in 2015 from the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014. The increase was partially offset by: Lower deferral of revenues from the Destiny franchise associated with the release of Rise of Iron in September 2016, as compared to the release of The Taken King in September 2015. Recognition of deferred revenues associated with the release of Overwatch . Deferred revenues recognized decreased for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Deferrals of revenues associated with the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, as compared to the recognition of deferred revenues in 2015 from the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November 2014. Deferral of revenues associated with Overwatch , which released in May 2016. Asia Pacific Net Revenues Net revenues increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: New revenues from King titles since the King Closing Date, with the revenues primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise. Revenues recognized from Overwatch, a new team-based first-person shooter released in May 2016. Higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft . These were partially offset by lower revenues recognized from the Diablo franchise due to the timing of releases. 48 Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Deferred revenues recognized decreased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to the higher deferrals of revenues associated with the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August2016, as compared to the recognition of deferred revenues in 2015 from the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014. This decrease was partially offset by increased deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. Additionally for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, the decrease in deferred revenues recognized was due to the deferral of revenues associated with Overwatch, which released in May2016, and lower deferral of revenues from the Diablo franchise due to timing of title releases. Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $11 million and $30 million on our consolidated net revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively, as compared to the same period in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and British pound. Net Revenues by Platform The following tables detail our consolidated net revenues by platform for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by platform for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from PC includes revenues that were historically shown as Online. (2) Net revenues from Mobile and ancillary includes revenues from handheld, mobile, and tablet devices, as well as non-platform-specific game-related revenues such as standalone sales of toys and accessories from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (3) Net revenues from Other include revenues from MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. 49 Console Net Revenues Net revenues from console increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Revenues recognized from Overwatch , a new team-based first-person shooter released in May 2016. Higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare , which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014, including, in each case, the associated digital content. These increases were partially offset by: Lower revenues from standalone toys and accessories from the Skylanders franchise. This is in part due to the impact from the timing of title releases. Skylanders Imaginators was released in October 2016 while the comparable prior year title, Skylanders Superchargers , was released in September 2015. Lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, as Destiny debuted in September 2014 but had no comparable full-game release in 2015. The prior year also included higher revenues recognized from the multiple Destiny expansion pack releases, including The Dark Below (released December 2014) and The House of Wolves (released in May 2015), without comparable releases in 2016. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Deferred revenues recognized from console increased for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to lower deferral of revenues from the Destiny franchise associated with the release of Rise of Iron in September2016, as compared to the release of The Taken King in September2015. Deferred revenues recognized from console decreased for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to the deferral of revenues related to the release of Overwatch. The decrease is partially offset by increased deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014, including, in each case, the associated digital content. PC Net Revenues Net revenues from PC increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Revenues recognized from Overwatch , a new team-based first-person shooter released in May 2016. Revenues recognized from King titles since the King Closing Date. Revenues recognized from StarCraft II: Legacy of the Void which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, the increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft due to the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014, for which a majority of the revenues were recognized in 2015 based on an estimated service period. Meanwhile, World of Warcraft: Legion released in August2016 but the associated game revenues are largely deferred and will be recognized in future periods over an estimated service period. 50 Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Deferred revenues recognized from PC decreased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to deferrals of revenues associated with the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August2016, as compared to the recognition of deferred revenues in 2015 from the release of World of Warcraft: Warlords of Draenor in November2014. The decrease is partially offset by higher deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. Additionally, for the three months ended September30, 2016, the decrease in deferred revenues was partially offset by the recognition of revenues associated with Overwatch. Conversely, for the nine months ended September30, 2016, the decrease in deferred revenues was also due to additional deferrals associated with Overwatch. Mobile and ancillary Net Revenues Net revenues from mobile and ancillary increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: New revenues from King titles since the King Closing Date, which were primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise. Higher revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft, which was released on iPhone and Android smartphones in April 2015. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues from standalone toys and accessories from the Skylanders franchise. Additionally, Skylanders Imaginators was released in October2016 while the comparable prior year title, Skylanders Superchargers, was released in September2015. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Deferred revenues recognized from mobile and ancillary had no significant movements for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. Deferred revenues recognized from mobile and ancillary decreased slightly for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, primarily due to deferrals of revenue from King titles, partially offset by higher deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. 51 Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following tables detail the components of cost of revenues in dollars and as a percentage of associated net revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in millions): Total cost of revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 increased as compared to the same period in 2015, reflective of the increase in consolidated net revenues. Cost of Revenues - Product Sales Product costs decreased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, when compared to the same period in 2015. This was primarily due to the release of Skylanders Superchargers in September2015, while the current year comparable title, Skylanders Imaginators, was released in October2016. The Skylanders franchise titles typically have relatively higher product costs compared to other titles due to the inclusion of various hardware components, including toys. This was partially offset by product costs incurred in the current periods associated with Overwatch, which was released in May2016, and Guitar Hero Live, which was released in October2015. Neither of these franchises had comparable titles impacting the three and nine months ended September30, 2015. Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales decreased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016. This was primarily due to the timing of the Skylanders title launch in the current and prior year as noted above, along with lower software amortization from the Destiny franchise, asDestinywas released in the third quarter of 2014, but had no comparable full-game release in 2015. This was partially offset by software amortization from Overwatch, which was released in May2016 with no comparable title in 2015. Additionally, for the nine months ended September30, 2016, the decrease was further partially offset by higher software amortization associated with Call of Duty: Black Ops III, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2015, as compared toCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2014, and software amortization associated with recently released titles without prior comparable titles in the previous period, including Guitar Hero Live. 52 Cost of Revenues - Subscription, Licensing, and Other Revenues Game operations and distribution costs increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, when compared to the same periods in 2015. This was primarily due to increased online costs and platform provider fees associated with revenues included since the King Closing Date and increased expenditures to support our growing online activity across our existing and new titles. Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to subscription, licensing, and other revenues increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, when compared to the same periods in 2015. This was primarily due to the amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition. This was partially offset by lower software amortization from Heroes of the Storm, as it was released in June2015. Product Development (amounts in millions) Product development costs increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Product development costs associated with King s titles. Increased product development costs for Activision and Blizzard s current and upcoming releases. Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions) Sales and marketing costs increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: Amortization of the customer base intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition. Sales and marketing spending to support King s titles and new launches, including Farm Heroes Super Saga and Candy Crush Jelly Saga. New sales and marketing spending to support Overwatch along with increased spending to support our existing franchises and their associated releases, including the Call of Duty and World of Warcraft franchises. The month of September 2016 included our Call of Duty XP event, which culminated with the Call of Duty World League Championship. These increases were partially offset by lower spending on Guitar Hero Live, the Destiny franchise, and the Skylanders franchise. 53 General and Administrative (amounts in millions) General and administrative expenses increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015. This was primarily due to: King s general and administrative costs, which are included from the King Closing Date. Higher Blizzard personnel costs due to segment performance bonuses and increased headcount to support the business growth for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to 2015. Additionally, general and administrative expenses increased for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to 2015, due to higher professional and transaction related fees due to the King Acquisition, which closed on February23, 2016. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions) Interest and other expense (income), net, increased for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to the same periods in 2015, primarily due to: Interest expense associated with the existing Tranche A Term Loans that were funded at the King Closing Date. Extinguishment costs associated with refinancing the existing Tranche A Term Loans and extinguishment of the Term Loan. This increase was partially offset by lower interest expense related to the Term Loan as a result of having a lower principal balance during the three and nine months ended September30, 2016. We made voluntary prepayments of $500 million, $250 million, and $800 million on February25, 2016, March31, 2016, and May26, 2016, respectively. Income Tax Expense (amounts in millions) The Company accounts for its provision for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year. The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. 54 The income tax expense of $32 million for the three months ended September30, 2016, reflects an effective tax rate of 14%, which is higher than the effective tax rate of 13% for the three months ended September30, 2015. The increase is due to the change in the mix of domestic and foreign earnings and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments (see Recently issued accounting pronouncements ) and favorable return to provision adjustments. The income tax expense of $93 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016, reflects an effective tax rate of 12%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 20% for the nine months ended September30, 2015. The decrease is due to the change in the mix of domestic and foreign earnings, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, the net benefit related to the settlement of an income tax audit during the first quarter of 2016, and favorable return to provision adjustments, partially offset by increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 14% for the three months ended September30, 2016 differs from the US statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, favorable return to provision adjustments, and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 12% for the nine months ended September30, 2016 differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to the tax benefit from foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, the net benefit related to the settlement of an income tax audit during the first quarter of 2016, favorable return to provision adjustments, and increases to the Company s reserve for uncertain tax positions. The overall effective income tax rate for the year will be dependent in part on our profitability for the remainder of the year, as well as the other factors described above. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) is currently examining Activision Blizzard s federal tax returns for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company transitioned the review of its transfer pricing methodology from the advanced pricing agreement review process to the IRS examination team. Their review could result in a different allocation of profits and losses under the Company s transfer pricing agreements. Such allocation could have a positive or negative impact on our provision for uncertain tax positions for the period in which such a determination is reached and the relevant periods thereafter. In addition, as part of purchase price accounting for the King Acquisition, the Company assumed $93 million of uncertain tax positions primarily related to the transfer pricing on King tax years occurring prior to the King Acquisition. The Company is currently in negotiations with the relevant jurisdictions and taxing authorities, which could result in a different allocation of profits and losses between the relevant jurisdictions. Vivendi Games results for the period from January1, 2008 through July9, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign state and local income tax returns filed by Vivendi or its affiliates, while Vivendi Games results for the period from July10, 2008 through December31, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state and local income tax returns filed by Activision Blizzard. IRS Appeals proceedings concerning Vivendi Games tax return for the 2008 tax year were concluded during July2016, but that year remains open to examination by other major taxing authorities. The resolution of the 2008 IRS Appeals process did not have a material impact to the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by tax authorities in various jurisdictions, including France. These proceedings may lead to adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or provisions for uncertain tax positions. Such proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. If we were to receive a materially adverse assessment from a taxing jurisdiction, we would plan to vigorously contest it and consider all of our options, including the pursuit of judicial remedies. 55 The final resolution of the Company s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations, except as noted above. However, the Company s global tax disputes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. In 2013, in connection with a share repurchase from Vivendi (the Purchase Transaction ), we assumed certain tax attributes, generally consisting of net operating loss ( NOL ) carryforwards of approximately $760 million, which represent a potential future tax benefit of approximately $266 million. The utilization of such NOL carryforwards will be subject to certain annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2021. The Company also obtained indemnification from Vivendi against losses attributable to the disallowance of claimed utilization of such NOL carryforwards of up to $200 million in unrealized tax benefits in the aggregate, limited to taxable years ending on or prior to December31, 2016. No benefit for these tax attributes or indemnification was recorded upon the close of the Purchase Transaction. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, we utilized $291 million of the NOL, which resulted in a tax benefit of $102 million, and a corresponding reserve of $102 million was established. As of September30, 2016, an indemnification asset of $191 million has been recorded in Other Assets, and, correspondingly, the same amount has been recorded as a reduction to the consideration paid for the shares repurchased in Treasury Stock. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions) Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities The primary drivers of cash flows provided by operating activities typically include the collection of customer receivables generated by the sale of our products and digital and subscription revenues, partially offset by: payments to vendors for the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of our products; payments for customer service support for our consumers; payments to third-party developers and intellectual property holders; payments for interest on our debt; payments for software development; payments for tax liabilities; and payments to our workforce. 56 Cash flows provided by operating activities were higher for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015. This is primarily due to: New operating cash flows contributed by King. Operating cash flows generated by the release of Overwatch and World of Warcraft: Legion during fiscal 2016, which had no comparable releases in the prior year, although the impact to net income is largely deferred into future periods. Higher non-cash reconciling items, primarily due to the amortization of the acquired intangibles in the King Acquisition and associated deferred tax impacts. Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities The primary drivers of cash flows used in investing activities typically include the net effect of capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash balances, as well as cash used for acquisitions. Cash flows used in investing activities were $1.2 billion for the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to $239 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015. The increase in the cash used was primarily due to the $2.2 billion cash outflow for the King Acquisition in excess of the cash already in escrow, net of the $1.15 billion cash acquired. This was partially offset by $144 million of cash outflow for the purchase of available-for-sale investments for the nine months ended September30, 2015 for which there was no such purchase made in fiscal 2016. Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Financing Activities The primary drivers of cash flows used in financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt, and transactions involving our common stock, such as the issuance of shares of common stock to employees, the repurchase of our common stock, and the payment of dividends. Cash flows provided by financing activities were higher during the nine months ended September30, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to $6.9 billion of proceeds received from debt financings. These were partially offset by: Repayments made to extinguish our Term Loan of $1.9 billion. Repayments of $2.5 billion for refinancing our existing TLA. Repayments of $185 million made on our new TLA, which included $167 million of voluntary prepayments, as compared to the $250 million partial repayment of our Term Loan in 2015. Payment of debt discount and financing costs. Higher payment of dividends of $195 million in 2016, compared to $170 million in 2015. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are typically cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities. In addition, as described below, we have availability of $250 million, subject to certain restrictions, under an unsecured revolving credit facility. With our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $4 billion at September30, 2016, and expected cash flows provided by operating activities, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet daily operations in the foreseeable future, including the repayment of $1.6 billion of our existing 2021 Notes made on October19, 2016. We also believe that we have sufficient working capital ($1.6 billion at September30, 2016) to finance our operational and financing requirements for at least the next twelve months, including: purchases of inventory and equipment; the development, production, marketing, and sale of new products; provision of customer service for our subscribers; acquisition of intellectual property rights for future products from third parties; and payments related to debt obligations. 57 As of September30, 2016, and December31, 2015, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $1.9 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. If the cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. is needed in the future for our operations in the U.S., we would accrue and pay the required U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. Debt Credit Facilities On October11, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) for a $2.5 billion secured term loan facility maturing in October2020 (the Term Loan ), and a $250 million secured revolving credit facility (the Original Revolver ). As of December31, 2015, as a result of repayments and prepayments during the prior periods, we had $1.9 billion outstanding under the Term Loan. In conjunction with the King Acquisition, we entered into three amendments to the Credit Agreement (the Amendments ). The Amendments, among other things, provided for incremental term loans in the form of trancheA term loans in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.3 billion. The proceeds were provided on February23, 2016 and were used to fund the King Acquisition. On March31, 2016, we entered into a fourth amendment to the Credit Agreement which provided for an incremental tranche A term loan in the aggregate principal amount of $250 million (together with the $2.3 billion tranche A term loans, the Existing TLA ); the proceeds from the incremental borrowing were used to make a voluntary prepayment on our Term Loan on March31, 2016. In addition to this prepayment, we made voluntary prepayments on our Term Loan of $500 million and $800 million on February25 and May26, 2016, respectively. On August23, 2016 we entered into a fifth amendment to the Credit Agreement (the Fifth Amendment ) that provided for new tranche A term loans of approximately $2.9 billion (the New TLA ) and an amended revolving credit facility of $250 million (the Revolver and together with the New TLA, the Credit Facilities ). Both the New TLA and Revolver are scheduled to mature on August23, 2021 and are unsecured. The proceeds from the New TLA were primarily used to pay off the remaining outstanding principal balance on the Term Loan of $319 million and the Existing TLA of $2.5 billion. As a result of the payments to extinguish the Term Loan and Existing TLA, we wrote-off unamortized discount and deferred financing costs of $10 million, which is included in Interest and other expense (income), net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. The remaining unamortized discount and deferred financing costs were deferred, along with new fees paid to the New TLA lenders, and will continue to be amortized over the maturity of the New TLA. Debt discounts and deferred financing costs incurred in relation to the Fifth Amendment were not material. Borrowings under the Revolver may be borrowed, repaid, and re-borrowed by the Company, and are available for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Up to $50 million of the Revolver may be used for letters of credit. To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver. Borrowings under the New TLA and the Revolver will bear interest, at the Company s option, at either (a)a base rate equal to the highest of (i)the federal funds rate, plus 0.5%, (ii)the prime commercial lending rate of Bank of America, N.A. and (iii)the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) for an interest period of one month beginning on such day plus 1.00%, or (b)LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable interest margin. LIBOR will be subject to a floor of 0% and the base rate will be subject to an effective floor of 1.00%. The applicable interest margin for borrowings under the New TLA and Revolver will range from 1.125% to 2.00% for LIBOR borrowings and from 0.125% to 1.00% for base rate borrowings and will be determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Company s credit ratings. At September30, 2016, the New TLA bore interest at 1.77%. The Credit Agreement requires quarterly principal payments of 0.625% of the stated principal amount of the New TLA commencing on September30, 2016, with increases to 1.250% starting on September30, 2019 and 3.125% starting on September30, 2020, with the remaining balance payable on the New TLA s scheduled maturity date of August23, 2021. On September30, 2016, in addition to the required quarterly repayment of $18 million, we made a voluntary prepayment on our New TLA of $167 million. These payments satisfied the required quarterly principal repayments through December31, 2018. 58 The Company is subject to a financial covenant requiring the Company s Consolidated Total Net Debt Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) not to exceed (i)4.00:1.00 on or prior to March31, 2017, and (ii)thereafter, 3.50:1.00. The Fifth Amendment contains other covenants consistent with the Credit Agreement, although the Fifth Amendment provides for additional exceptions from such covenants that are customary for transactions of this type for issuers with similar credit ratings. A violation of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Upon the occurrence of such event of default or certain other customary events of default, payment of any outstanding amounts under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated, and the lenders commitments to extend credit under the Credit Agreement may be terminated. In addition, an event of default under the Credit Agreement could, under certain circumstances, permit the holders of other outstanding unsecured debt, including the debt holders described below, to accelerate the repayment of such obligations. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Credit Facilities as of September30, 2016. The Credit Facilities are guaranteed by certain of the Company s U.S. subsidiaries, whose assets represent approximately 68% of our consolidated total assets. Unsecured Senior Notes On September19, 2013, we issued, at par, $1.5 billion of 5.625% unsecured senior notes due September2021 (the Original 2021 Notes ) and $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September2023 (the 2023 Notes and, together with the Original 2021 Notes, the Notes ). On September19, 2016, we issued $650 million of 2.300% unsecured senior notes due September2021 (the New 2021 Notes ) and $850 million of 3.400% unsecured senior notes due September2026 (the 2026 Notes and together with the New 2021 Notes, the New Notes ) in a private offering made in accordance with Rule144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In connection with the issuance of the New Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ), among the Company, the Guarantors and the representatives of the initial purchasers of the New Notes. Under the Registration Rights Agreement, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to within one year of the issue date of the New Notes, among other things, (1)file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange each series of the New Notes for new notes that are substantially identical in all material respects, (except for the provisions relating to the transfer restrictions and payment of additional interest) and (2)cause the registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act. Interest on the Notes and New Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March15 and September15 of each year, commencing on March15, 2014 and March15, 2017, respectively. As of September30, 2016, the Notes and New Notes had a net carrying value of $2.22 billion and $1.48 billion, respectively. The Original 2021 Notes became eligible for redemption on September15, 2016 (and, as described below, were redeemed on October19, 2016). We may redeem the 2023 Notes on or after September15, 2018, in whole or in part on any one or more occasions, at specified redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of the 2023 Notes prior to September15, 2018, at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest. Further, upon the occurrence of one or more qualified equity offerings, we may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Notes outstanding with the net cash proceeds from such offerings. We may redeem the New 2021 Notes on or after August15, 2021, and the 2026 Notes on or after June15, 2026, in whole or in part on any one or more occasions and in each case at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of the New 2021 Notes prior to August15, 2021 and some or all of the 2026 Notes prior to June15, 2026, in each case at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence of certain change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase the Notes and New Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Notes contain customary covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of debt, granting of liens, payment of dividends, sales of assets, and certain merger and consolidation transactions. The New Notes contain customary covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of secured debt, entry into sale or leaseback transactions, and certain merger or consolidation transactions. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Notes and New Notes as of September30, 2016. 59 On September19, 2016 we issued an irrevocable notice to the holders of the Original 2021 Notes that we were calling those notes which then had a 30-day period before payment. On October19, 2016, we redeemed the notes in full for $1.6 billion, which resulted in a loss on extinguishment of approximately $82 million, comprised of a premium payment of $63 million and write off of unamortized discount and financing costs of $19 million. This loss was recognized at the time of extinguishment. As a result of the irrevocable notice of redemption, we presented the outstanding principal balance of the Original 2021 Notes and its related unamortized discount and deferred financing costs as Current portion of long-term debt, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September30, 2016. Debt Discounts and Deferred Financing Costs Fees and discounts associated with the closing of our debt instruments are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and is amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. In connection with the debt financing for the Existing TLA and New Notes offering, we incurred $38 million and $17 million of discounts and financing costs, respectively, that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. New lender fees and deferred financing costs related to the New TLA were not material. Debt Repayments On February2, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized debt repayments of up to $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt during 2016. For the nine months ended September30, 2016, we have made payments to reduce our total outstanding term loans by $1.5billion. Capital Expenditures For the year ending December31, 2016, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $151 million, primarily for computer hardware and software purchases. During the first nine months of 2016, we made aggregate capital expenditures of $99million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At September30, 2016, and December31, 2015, Activision Blizzard had no significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. 60 Financial Disclosure We maintain internal control over financial reporting, which generally includes those controls relating to the preparation of our financial statements in conformity with U.S.GAAP. We also are focused on our disclosure controls and procedures, which as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), are generally those controls and procedures designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rulesand forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including our principal executive and financial officers, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our Disclosure Committee, which operates under the Board of Directors-approved Disclosure Committee Charter and Disclosure Controls& Procedures Policy, includes senior management representatives and assists executive management in its oversight of the accuracy and timeliness of our disclosures, as well as in implementing and evaluating our overall disclosure process. As part of our disclosure process, senior finance and operational representatives from all of our corporate divisions and business units prepare quarterly reports regarding their current-quarter operational performance, future trends, subsequent events, internal controls, changes in internal controls, and other accounting and disclosure relevant information. These quarterly reports are reviewed by certain key corporate finance executives. These corporate finance representatives also conduct quarterly interviews on a rotating basis with the preparers of selected quarterly reports. The results of the quarterly reports and related interviews are reviewed by the Disclosure Committee. Finance representatives also conduct interviews with our senior management team, our legal counsel and other appropriate personnel involved in the disclosure process, as appropriate. Additionally, senior finance and operational representatives provide internal certifications regarding the accuracy of information they provide that is utilized in the preparation of our periodic public reports filed with the SEC. Financial results and other financial information also are reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. As required by applicable regulatory requirements, the principal executive and financial officers review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of our periodic public reports filed with the SEC, our disclosure controls and procedures, and our internal control over financial reporting. With the assistance of the Disclosure Committee, we will continue to assess and monitor, and make refinements to, our disclosure controls and procedures, and our internal control over financial reporting. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments, and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments, and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments, or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions, and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following: Revenue Recognition including Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables Allowances for Returns, Price Protection, Doubtful Accounts, and Inventory Obsolescence Software Development Costs and Intellectual Property Licenses Income Taxes Fair Value Estimates (including Business Combinations and Assessment of Impairment of Assets) Stock-Based Compensation During the nine months ended September30, 2016, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates, but we did expand the accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition to include virtual currency as noted below. Refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in PartII,Item7 of our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. 61 Microtransaction Revenues Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual goods and currencies to our players to enhance their gameplay experience. Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods and currencies are initially recorded in deferred revenues. Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as a player uses the virtual goods purchased with the virtual currency. We categorize our virtual goods as either consumable or durable. Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed. Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time. We recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player, which is generally the estimated service period of the game. Recently issued accounting pronouncements Recently adopted accounting pronouncements Stock-based compensation In June2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to stock compensation. The new standard requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the periods for which the requisite service has already been rendered. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Consolidations In February2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to consolidations. The new standard amends certain requirements for determining whether a variable interest entity must be consolidated. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Debt Issuance Costs In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of debt issuance costs in financial statements. The new standard requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. We adopted this change in accounting principle as of January1, 2016, and applied it retrospectively for each period presented. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Internal-Use Software In April2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to internal-use software. The new standard relates to a customer s accounting for fees paid in cloud computing arrangements. The amendment provides guidance for customers to determine whether such arrangements include software licenses. If a cloud arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. We adopted this standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Business Combinations In September2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to business combinations. The new standard requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement period adjustment, including the impact on prior periods, on provisional amounts recorded at the acquisition date as a result of the business combination be recognized in the reporting period the adjustment is identified. The standard also requires separate presentation on the face of the income statement, or disclosure in the notes, of the portion of the amount recorded in current period earnings by line item. Prior to the issuance of the standard, such adjustments to provisional amounts were recognized retrospectively. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2016, and applied it prospectively. No measurement period adjustments impacting earnings occurred as of and for the nine months ended September30, 2016. 62 Share-Based Payments In March2016, the FASB issued new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payments. The new standard, amongst other things: requires that all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be recorded as an income tax expense or benefit in the statement of operations and that the tax effects of exercised or vested awards be treated as discrete items in the reporting period in which they occur; requires excess tax benefits from share-based payments to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows; and permits an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate, as currently required, or account for forfeitures when they occur. We elected to early adopt this new standard in the third quarter of 2016, which requires us to reflect any adjustments as of January1, 2016. As part of the adoption, we made certain elections, including the following: to apply the presentation requirements for our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows related to excess tax benefits retrospectively to all periods presented; and to continue to estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate. As a result of the adoption we recognized excess tax benefits of $12 million and $63 million as a reduction to income tax expense in our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively. The adoption of the standard impacted our previously reported quarterly results and financial positions for fiscal year 2016 as follows: 63 Given our retrospective application of the presentation requirements for our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows related to excess tax benefits, our net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in financing activities increased $33 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015. The other provisions of the standard did not have a material impact on our financial statements. Statement of Cash Flows In August2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of certain cash items in the statement of cash flows. The new standard requires, among other things, that cash payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs should be classified as cash outflows for financing activities, as opposed to operating activities as is required under existing guidance. We elected to early adopt this standard in the current period and applied it retrospectively. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted Revenue recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017, and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the adoption method as well as the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. While we are currently evaluating the method of adoption and the impact of the new revenue standard on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, we believe the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard may have a significant impact on the accounting for our sales of our games with significant online functionality for which we do not have vendor-specific-objective-evidence( VSOE ) for unspecified future updates and ongoing online services provided. Under the current accounting standards, VSOE for undelivered elements is required. This requirement is eliminated under the new standard. Accordingly, we may be required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, as compared to the current requirement of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated offering period. While we are still currently evaluating the impact of the new standard, the impact of this identified difference in accounting may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, amongst other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either a operating or financing lease and lessees will need to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received and any prepaid lease payments. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 64 Inventory In July2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016 and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Financial Instruments In January2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, amongst other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amendments related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) should be applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements.Item 1. Financial Statements ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) (1) Excludes deferral and amortization of share-based compensation expense. (2) Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of share-based compensation expense. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY For the Three Months Ended March31, 2017 (Unaudited) (Amounts and shares in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation Activision Blizzard,Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services across all of the major gaming platforms, including video game consoles, personal computers ( PC ), and mobile devices. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December1992. We are the result of the 2008 business combination (the Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc., was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ), we acquired King Digital Entertainment, a leading interactive mobile entertainment company ( King ), by purchasing all of its outstanding shares (the King Acquisition ), as further described in Note14. Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the operations of King commencing on the King Closing Date. Our Segments Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments as follows: (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly in console gaming. Activision primarily delivers content through retail channels or digital downloads, including full-game sales and in-game purchases, as well as licenses of software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny. Activision s key product franchises include: Call of Duty , a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms; Destiny, an online universe of first-person action gameplay (which we call a shared-world shooter ) for console platforms; and Skylanders , a franchise geared towards children that brings physical toys to life digitally in the game, primarily for console platforms. (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly in PC gaming. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail channels or digital downloads, including subscriptions, full-game sales, and in-game purchases, as well as licenses of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content, online social connectivity across all Blizzard games, and the creation of user-generated content for Blizzard s games. Blizzard s key product franchises include: World of Warcraft , a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game for the PC; StarCraft , a real-time strategy PC franchise; Diablo , an action role-playing franchise for PC and console platforms; Hearthstone , an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; Heroes of the Storm , a free-to-play team brawler for the PC; and Overwatch , a team-based first person shooter for the PC and console platforms. 9 (iii)King Digital Entertainment King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS. King also distributes its content and services on online social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King s games are free-to-play, however, players can acquire in-game virtual items, either with virtual currency the players purchase or directly using real currency. King s key product franchises, all of which are for the PC and mobile platforms, include: Candy Crush , which features match three games; Farm Heroes , which also features match three games; Pet Rescue , which is a clicker game; and Bubble Witch , which features bubble shooter games. (iv)Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: the Major League Gaming ( MLG ) business, which is devoted to esports and builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver best-in-class fan experiences across games, platforms, and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments and leagues, and premium content; the Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in October 2016, released the first season of the animated TV series Skylanders Academy on Netflix; and the Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Basis of Consolidation and Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) for interim reporting. Accordingly, certain notes or other information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted if they substantially duplicate the disclosures contained in the annual audited consolidated financial statements. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016. The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for the fair statement of our financial position and results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been included in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. The Company considers events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued, to provide additional evidence relative to certain estimates or to identify matters that require additional disclosures. Cost of Revenues Presentation In periods prior to the second quarter of 2016, we presented cost of revenues in our consolidated statements of operations in four financial statement captions: Cost of sales product costs, Cost of sales online, Cost of sales software royalties and amortization, and Cost of sales intellectual property licenses. Commencing with the second quarter of 2016, we have revised the presentation in our condensed consolidated statements of operations to more clearly align our costs of revenues with the associated revenue captions as follows: 10 Cost of revenues product sales: (i) Product costs includes the manufacturing costs of goods produced and sold. These generally include product costs, manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts, personnel-related costs, warehousing, and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones). (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to product sales revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is the amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to product sales revenues. Cost of revenues subscription, licensing, and other revenues: (i) Game operations and distribution costs includes costs to operate our games, such as customer service, internet bandwidth and server costs, platform provider fees, and payment provider fees. (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to subscription, licensing, and other revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is the amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to subscription, licensing, and other revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to this current presentation. Supplemental Cash Flow Information: Non-cash investing and financing activities For the three months ended March31, 2016, we had non-cash purchase price consideration of $89 million related to vested and unvested stock options and awards that were assumed and replaced with Activision Blizzard equity or deferred cash awards in the King Acquisition. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion. As of March31, 2017 and 2016, we also had the following amounts recorded within Accrued expenses and other liabilities associated with investing and financing activities: dividends payable of $226 million and $195 million, respectively; and accrued withholding tax payments related to net share settlements on restricted stock units of $17 million and $45 million, respectively. 2. Inventories, Net Our inventories, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): At March31, 2017, and December31, 2016, inventory reserves were $33 million and $45 million, respectively. 11 3. Software Development and Intellectual Property Licenses The following table summarizes the components of our capitalized software development costs (amounts in millions): As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, intellectual property licenses were not material to our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Amortization of capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses was as follows (amounts in millions): 4. Intangible Assets, Net Intangible assets, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): 12 Amortization expense of intangible assets was $190 million and $82 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. At March31, 2017, future amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is estimated as follows (amounts in millions): 5. Goodwill The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the three months ended March31, 2017, are as follows (amounts in millions): 6. Fair Value Measurements Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) literature regarding fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. This hierarchy requires entities to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 13 Level 2 Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis The table below segregates all of our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis into the most appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine the fair value at the measurement date, generally including money market funds, treasury bills, available-for-sale and derivative financial instruments, and other investments (amounts in millions): 14 ARS represented the only level3 investment held by the Company. The fair value of these investments did not change during the three months ended March31, 2017. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges At March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, we did not have any outstanding foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges ( Cash Flow Hedges ) At March31, 2017, the gross notional amount of outstanding Cash Flow Hedges was approximately $352 million. The fair value of these contracts, all of which have remaining maturities of 12 months or less, was $11 million of net unrealized gains. Additionally, at March31, 2017, we had $3 million of net realized but unrecognized gains recorded within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) associated with contracts that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues. Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. At December31, 2016, the gross notional amount of outstanding Cash Flow Hedges was approximately $346 million. The fair value of these contracts was $22 million of net unrealized gains as of December31, 2016. During the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, there was no ineffectiveness relating to our Cash Flow Hedges and the amount of pre-tax net realized gains associated with these contracts that were reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and into earnings was not material. Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis. 7. Debt Credit Facilities At December31, 2016, we had outstanding term loans A of approximately $2.7 billion (the 2016 TLA ) and $250 million available under a revolving credit facility (the Revolver ) pursuant to a credit agreement executed on October11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the Credit Agreement ). On February3, 2017, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment ) to the Credit Agreement. The Sixth Amendment (i)provided for a new tranche of term loans A in an aggregate principal amount of $2.55 billion (the 2017 TLA and, together with the Revolver, the Credit Facilities ) and (ii)released each of our subsidiary guarantors from their respective guarantees provided under the Credit Agreement. All proceeds of the 2017 TLA, together with additional cash on hand of $139 million, were used to fully retire the 2016 TLA, including all accrued and unpaid interest thereon. The terms of the 2017 TLA, other than the absence of the subsidiary guarantees, are generally the same as the terms of the 2016 TLA. The fees incurred as a result of the Sixth Amendment were not material. At March31, 2017, the 2017 TLA bore interest at 2.23%. The 2017 TLA will mature on August23, 2021. We were in compliance with the terms of the Credit Facilities as of March31, 2017. During the three months ended March31, 2017, we reduced our total outstanding term loan balances by $500 million, comprised of $139 million of cash used to retire the 2016 TLA, as discussed above, and a $361 million cash prepayment on the 2017 TLA. As a result of our payments, we satisfied the remaining required quarterly principal repayments for the entire term of the Credit Agreement. To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver. Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 for further details regarding our Credit Agreement, key terms, and amendments made to our Credit Agreement. 15 Unsecured Senior Notes At March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, we had the following unsecured senior notes outstanding: $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September 2023 that we issued on September 19, 2013 (the 2023 Notes ), in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ); and $650 million of 2.3% unsecured senior notes due September 2021 (the 2021 Notes ) and $850 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due September 2026 (the 2026 Notes and, together with the 2021 Notes and the 2023 Notes, the Notes ) that we issued on September 19, 2016, in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act. In connection with the issuance of the 2021 Notes and the 2026 Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ), among the Company, the Guarantors, and the representatives of the initial purchasers of the 2021 Notes and the 2026 Notes. Under the Registration Rights Agreement, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to within one year of the issue date of the 2021 Notes and the 2026 Notes, among other things, (1)file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange each series of the 2021 Notes and the 2026 Notes for new notes that are substantially identical in all material respects (except for the provisions relating to the transfer restrictions and payment of additional interest) (the Exchange Offer ), and (2)cause the registration statement (the Exchange Offer Registration Statement ) to be declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act. The Exchange Offer Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on April28, 2017 and the Company commenced the Exchange Offer on May1, 2017. The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities described above. As of December31, 2016, the Notes were guaranteed on a senior basis by certain of our U.S. subsidiaries. Pursuant to the terms of the indentures underlying the Notes, the guarantees by certain subsidiaries were automatically released when the 2017 TLA guarantees were removed in connection with the Sixth Amendment to the Credit Agreement. The Notes are not secured and are effectively subordinated to any of the Company s existing and future indebtedness that is secured. The Company was in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of March31, 2017. Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March15 and September15 of each year, and is recorded within Accrued expenses and other liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, we had accrued interest payable of $4 million and $25 million, respectively, related to the Notes recorded within Accrued expenses and other liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 for further details regarding our key terms under our indentures that govern the Notes. Interest Expense And Financing Costs Fees and discounts associated with the closing of our debt instruments are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and is amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. For the three months ended March31, 2017, interest expense was $35 million, amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $7 million, and commitment fees for the Revolver were not material. For the three months ended March31, 2016, interest expense was $53 million, amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $4 million, and commitment fees for the Revolver were not material. 16 A summary of our debt is as follows (amounts in millions): As of March31, 2017, the scheduled maturities and contractual principal repayments of our debt for each of the five succeeding years are as follows (amounts in millions): As of March31, 2017, and December31, 2016, the carrying values of the 2017 TLA and the 2016 TLA approximate their fair value, based on Level 2 inputs (observable market prices in less than active markets), as the interest rate is variable over the selected interest period and is similar to current rates at which we can borrow funds. Based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2021 Notes, 2023 Notes, and 2026 Notes were $636 million, $812 million, and $830 million, respectively, as of March31, 2017. Based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2021 Notes, 2023 Notes, and 2026 Notes were $635 million, $818 million, $808 million, respectively, as of December31, 2016. 17 8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at March31, 2017 and 2016, were as follows (amounts in millions): Income taxes were not provided for foreign currency translation items as these are considered indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. 9. Operating Segments and Geographic Region Currently, we have three reportable segments. Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker ( CODM ). The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of: the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games; share-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting; and fees and other expenses (including legal fees, expenses, and accruals) related to acquisitions, associated integration activities, and financings; certain restructuring costs; and other non-cash charges. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organization structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments. 18 Information on the reportable segments and reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 are presented below (amounts in millions): (1) Other segments include other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Other segments also include unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses, such as legal, banking, and professional services fees, primarily related to the King Acquisition and associated integration activities, inclusive of related debt financings. (3) Reflects restructuring charges incurred, primarily severance costs. (4) Reflects a non-cash accounting charge to reclassify certain cumulative translation losses into earnings due to the substantial liquidation of certain of our foreign entities. Geographic information presented below for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, is based on the location of the paying customer. Net revenues from external customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) EMEA consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions. 19 The Company s net revenues in the U.S. were 47% and 49% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% and 11% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. No other country s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 or 2016. Net revenues by platform were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from mobile and ancillary include revenues from mobile devices, as well as non-platform specific game-related revenues, such as standalone sales of toys and accessories from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (2) Net revenues from Other include revenues from our MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Long-lived assets by geographic region at March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) The only long-lived assets that we classify by region are our long-term tangible fixed assets, which only include property, plant, and equipment assets; all other long-term assets are not allocated by location. 10. Income Taxes The Company accounts for its provision for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year.The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters;recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies from share-based payments; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. The income tax expense of $27 million for the three months ended March31, 2017, reflects an effective tax rate of 6%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 11% for the three months ended March31, 2016. The decrease is due to increased excess tax benefits from share-based payments, partially offset by proportionately more earnings generated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates and an increase of reserves for uncertain tax positions. 20 The effective tax rate of 6% for the three months ended March31, 2017 is lower than the US statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to foreign earnings taxed at lower statutory rates, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, and the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, partially offset by an increase of reserves for uncertain tax positions. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) is currently examining Activision Blizzard s federal tax returns for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years. During the second quarter of 2015, the Company transitioned the review of its transfer pricing methodology from the advanced pricing agreement review process to the IRS examination team. Their review could result in a different allocation of profits and losses under the Company s transfer pricing agreements. Such allocation could have a positive or negative impact on our provision for uncertain tax positions for the period in which such a determination is reached and the relevant periods thereafter. The Company also has several state level and non-U.S. audits pending. As part of purchase price accounting for the King Acquisition, the Company assumed $74 million of uncertain tax positions, primarily related to the transfer pricing on King tax years occurring prior to the King Acquisition. The Company is currently in negotiations with the relevant jurisdictions and taxing authorities with respect to King s transfer pricing, which could result in a different allocation of profits and losses between the relevant jurisdictions. Vivendi Games results for the period from January1, 2008 through July9, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign state and local income tax returns filed by Vivendi or its affiliates, while Vivendi Games results for the period from July10, 2008 through December31, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state and local income tax returns filed by Activision Blizzard. IRS Appeals proceedings concerning Vivendi Games tax return for the 2008 tax year were concluded during July2016, but that year remains open to examination by other major taxing authorities. The resolution of the 2008 IRS Appeals process did not have a material impact to the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by tax authorities in various jurisdictions, including France. These proceedings may lead to adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or provisions for uncertain tax positions. Such proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. If we were to receive a materially adverse assessment from a taxing jurisdiction, we would plan to vigorously contest it and consider all of our options, including the pursuit of judicial remedies. The final resolution of the Company s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations, except as noted above. 21 11. Computation of Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share (amounts in millions, except per share data): Certain of our unvested restricted stock units meet the definition of participating securities as they participate in earnings based on their rights to dividends or dividend equivalents. Therefore, we are required to use the two-class method in our computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, on a weighted-average basis, we had outstanding unvested restricted stock units of less than a million and 4 million shares of common stock, respectively, that are participating in earnings. Certain of our employee-related restricted stock units and options are contingently issuable upon the satisfaction of pre-defined performance measures. These shares are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period. Approximately 9 million and 10 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, as their respective performance measures had not yet been met. Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. Therefore, options to acquire 5 million and 6 million shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. 12. Capital Transactions Repurchase Program On February2, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock during the two-year period from February13, 2017 through February12, 2019. As of March31, 2017, we have not repurchased any shares under this program. Dividends On February2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.30 per common share. Such dividend is payable on May10, 2017, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2017. We have recorded $226 million of dividends payable in Accrued expenses and other liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March31, 2017. 22 On February2, 2016, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per common share. On May11, 2016, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $192 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2016. On May27, 2016, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock units. 13. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings We are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, such routine claims and lawsuits are not significant and we do not expect them to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 14. Acquisitions King Digital Entertainment On February23, 2016, we completed the King Acquisition, purchasing all of King s outstanding shares. As a result, King became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard. King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly-complementary mobile business positions us as a global leader in interactive entertainment across console, PC, and mobile platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. The aggregate purchase price of the King Acquisition was approximately $5.8 billion, which was paid on the King Closing Date and funded primarily with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. We identified and recorded assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values at the King Closing Date and allocated the remaining value of approximately $2.7 billion to goodwill. The final purchase price allocation was as follows (amounts in millions): 23 During the three months ended March31, 2016, the Company incurred $34 million of expenses related to the King Acquisition, which are included within General and administrative in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the debt financing that occurred on the King Closing Date, we incurred $38 million of issuance costs that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Share-Based Compensation In connection with the King Acquisition, a majority of the outstanding King options and awards that were unvested as of the King Closing Date were converted into equivalent options and awards with respect to shares of the Company s common stock, using an equity award exchange ratio calculated in accordance with the transaction agreement. As a result, replacement stock options and equity awards of 10 million and 3 million, respectively, were issued. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $76 million was included in the purchase price, while the remaining fair value will be recognized over the remaining service periods. As of December31, 2016, the future expense for the converted King unvested stock options and equity awards was approximately $40 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 1.6 years. The remaining portion of outstanding unvested awards that were assumed were replaced with deferred cash awards. The cash proceeds were placed in an escrow-like account, with the cash releases occurring as future services are rendered in accordance with the awards original vesting schedules. The cash associated with these awards is recorded in Other current assets and Other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $22 million was included in the purchase price while the remaining fair value of approximately $9 million will be recognized over the remaining service periods. Identifiable Intangible Assets Acquired and Goodwill The internally-developed franchises, customer base, developed software, and trade name intangible assets will be amortized to Cost of revenues-subscription, licensing, and other revenues-Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, Sales and marketing, Cost of revenues-subscription, licensing, and other revenues-Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, and General and administrative, respectively. The intangible assets will be amortized over their estimated useful lives in proportion to the economic benefits received. The $2.7 billion of goodwill recognized is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from accelerated expansion as an interactive entertainment provider in the mobile sector, future franchises, and technology, as well as the management team s proven ability to create future games and franchises. Approximately $620 million of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes in the U.S. King Net Revenue and Earnings The amount of net revenue and earnings attributable to King in the Company s condensed consolidated statement of operations during the three months ended March31, 2016, the period of the King Acquisition, are included in the table below. The amounts presented represent the net revenues and earnings after adjustments for purchase price accounting, inclusive of amortization of intangible assets, share-based payments, and deferral of revenues and related cost of revenues. Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations of the Company and King for the three months ended March31, 2016, on a pro forma basis, as though the acquisition had occurred on January1, 2015. The 2016 pro forma financial information presented includes the effects of adjustments related to amortization charges from acquired intangible assets, employee compensation from replacement equity awards issued in the King Acquisition and the profit sharing bonus plan established as part of the King Acquisition, and interest expense from the new debt, among other adjustments. We also adjusted for Activision Blizzard and King non-recurring acquisition related costs of approximately $60 million for the three months ended March31, 2016. 24 The unaudited pro forma financial information as presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the King Acquisition, and any borrowings undertaken to finance the King Acquisition, had taken place at the beginning of the earliest period presented, nor does it intend to be a projection of future results. 15. Recently issued accounting pronouncements Recently adopted accounting pronouncements Inventory In July2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2017, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted Revenue recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S.GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017, and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. As previously disclosed, we believe the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard may have a significant impact on the accounting for our sales of our games with significant online functionality for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) for unspecified future updates and ongoing online services provided. Under the current accounting standards, VSOE for undelivered elements is required. This requirement will be eliminated under the new standard. Accordingly, we may be required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, as compared to the current requirement of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated offering period. This potential difference may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption of this new guidance. We are continuing to evaluate the adoption method that we will utilize as well as the additional impacts of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements and related disclosures. Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease and lessees will need to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received, and any prepaid lease payments. Operating leases will result in a straight-line expense pattern, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 25 Financial Instruments In January2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, amongst other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amendments related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) should be applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Statement of Cash Flows-Restricted Cash In November2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The new standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain any change during the period in total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Therefore, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018, and should be applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. We expect there would be a significant impact to the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March31, 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6 billion movement in restricted cash as a result of transferring cash into escrow at December31, 2015 to facilitate the King Acquisition and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 in connection with the King Acquisition. Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance would be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, would not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. Goodwill In January2017, the FASB issued new guidance which eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if any entity forgoes a Step 0 test, an entity will be required to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit, as determined in Step 1 from the goodwill impairment test, with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge, if any, for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2019 and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 26 Item2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview Activision Blizzard,Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services across all of the major gaming platforms, including video game consoles, personal computers ( PC ), and mobile devices. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December1992. We are the result of the 2008 business combination (the Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc., was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ), we acquired King Digital Entertainment, a leading interactive mobile entertainment company ( King ), by purchasing all of its outstanding shares (the King Acquisition ). We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly complementary mobile business positions us as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. The aggregate purchase price of approximately $5.8billion was funded with $3.6billion of existing cash and $2.2billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our Segments Based on our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments as follows: (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly in console gaming. Activision primarily delivers content through retail channels or digital downloads, including full-game sales and in-game purchases, as well as licenses of software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets and sells products which are principally based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Additionally, we have established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny. Activision s key product franchises include: Call of Duty , a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms; Destiny, an online universe of first-person action gameplay (which we call a shared-world shooter ) for console platforms; and Skylanders , a franchise geared towards children that brings physical toys to life digitally in the game, primarily for console platforms. (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly in PC gaming. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail channels or digital downloads, including subscriptions, full-game sales, and in-game purchases, as well as licenses of software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content, online social connectivity across all Blizzard games, and the creation of user-generated content for Blizzard s games. Blizzard s key product franchises include: World of Warcraft , a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game ( MMORPG ) for the PC; StarCraft , a real-time strategy PC franchise; Diablo , an action role-playing franchise for PC and console platforms; Hearthstone , an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; Heroes of the Storm , a free-to-play team brawler for the PC; and Overwatch , a team-based first person shooter for the PC and console platforms. 27 (iii)King Digital Entertainment King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS. King also distributes its content and services on online social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King s games are free-to-play, however, players can acquire in-game virtual items, either with virtual currency the players purchase, or directly using real currency. King s key product franchises, all of which are for the PC and mobile platforms, include: Candy Crush , which features match three games; Farm Heroes , which also features match three games; Pet Rescue , which is a clicker game; and Bubble Witch , which features bubble shooter games. (iv)Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: the Major League Gaming ( MLG ) business, which is devoted to esports and builds on our competitive gaming efforts by creating ways to deliver best-in-class fan experiences across games, platforms, and geographies with a long-term strategy of monetization through advertising, sponsorships, tournaments and leagues, and premium content; the Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in October 2016, released the first season of the animated TV series Skylanders Academy on Netflix; and the Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Business Results and Highlights Financial Results The Company s financial highlights include: consolidated net revenues increased 19% to $1.73 billion and consolidated operating income increased 7% to $493 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.46 billion and consolidated operating income of $461 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016; revenues from digital online channels increased 50% to $1.39 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2017, as compared to $926 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016; operating margin was 28.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017, as compared with 31.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The lower margin was driven by the current period including a full quarter of amortization of the intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition, as well as higher sales and marketing spend for upcoming title releases; we generated cash flows from operating activities of $411 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, an increase of 22%, as compared to $337 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016; consolidated net income increased 17% to $426 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, as compared to $363 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016; consolidated net income includes $69 million and $27 million of excess tax benefits from share based payments for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively; and our diluted earnings per common share increased $0.08 to $0.56 for the three months ended March 31, 2017, as compared to $0.48 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. 28 Since certain of our games are hosted or include online functionality that represents an essential component of gameplay and, as a result, a more-than-inconsequential separate deliverable, we initially defer the software-related revenues from the sale of these games and recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year. Net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 include a net effect of $530 million from the recognition of deferred net revenues. Operating income for the three months ended March31, 2017 includes a net effect of $396 million from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues. Release Highlights Games and digital downloadable content released during the three months ended March31, 2017 included: Activision released two downloadable content packs Sabotage , the first downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare , and the Modern Warfare Remastered Variety Map Pack , a downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered ; and King released Bubble Witch 3 Saga. Monthly Active Users ( MAUs ): Measuring the Size of Our User Base We monitor MAUs as a key measure of the overall size of our user base. MAUs are the number of individuals who played a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period. An individual who plays two of our games would be counted as two users. In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users. For Blizzard, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user. The number of MAUs for a given period can be significantly impacted by the timing of new content releases, since new releases may cause a temporary surge in MAUs. Accordingly, although we believe that overall trending in the number of MAUs can be a meaningful performance metric, period-to-period fluctuations may not be indicative of longer-term trends. The following table details our average MAUs on a sequential quarterly basis for each of our reportable segments (amounts in millions): Average MAUs decreased by 16 million, or 4%, for the quarter ended March31, 2017, as compared to the quarter ended December31, 2016. The decrease in King s average MAUs is due to decreases across King s franchises that are largely attributable to less engaged users leaving the network. The decrease in Activision s average MAUs is due to lower MAUs for the Call of Duty franchise. Average MAUs decreased by 113million, or 21%, for the quarter ended March31, 2017, as compared to the quarter ended March31, 2016. The decrease in King s average MAUs is due to decreases across King s franchises that are largely attributable to less engaged users leaving the network. The decrease in Activision s average MAUs is due to lower MAUs for the Call of Duty franchise, primarily driven by decreased MAUs for Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare as compared to Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable prior-year title release. This decrease is partially offset by the increase in Blizzard s average MAUs, driven by the release of Overwatch in May2016. 29 Management s Overview of Business Trends Interactive Entertainment and Mobile Gaming Growth Our business participates in the global interactive entertainment industry. Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 19% annually over the last four years. The industry continues to benefit from additional players entering the market as interactive entertainment becomes more commonplace across age groups and as more developing regions increasingly gain access to this form of entertainment. Further, the wide adoption of smart phones globally and the free-to-play business model on those platforms has increased the total addressable market for gaming significantly. Smart phones and associated free-to-play games have introduced gaming to new age groups and new regions and allowed gaming to occur more widely outside the home. Mobile gaming is now estimated to be larger than console and PC gaming and continues to grow at a significant rate. King is a leading developer of mobile and free-to-play games. In addition, our other segments have mobile efforts underway that present the opportunity for us to drive additional player investment from our franchises. Opportunities To Expand Franchises Outside of Games Our fans spend significant time investing in our franchises through purchases of our game content, whether through purchases of full games or downloadable content or via microtransactions. Given the passion our players have for our franchises, we believe there are emerging opportunities to drive player investment outside of game purchases. These opportunities include esports, film and television, and consumer products. Our efforts to build these additional opportunities are still relatively nascent, but we view them as potentially significant sources of future revenues. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Franchises The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive software industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 32% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2016. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues have historically been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises and these video games were responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, World of Warcraft, and Overwatch franchises, collectively, accounted for 69% of our consolidated net revenues, and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income, for 2016. The top titles in the industry are also becoming more consistent as players and revenues concentrate more heavily in established franchises. Each of the top 10 console franchises in 2016 was a previously established franchise. Similarly, according to U.S rankings for the Apple App Store and Google Play store per App Annie Intelligence as of March2017, the top 10 mobile games have an average tenure of 24months. In addition to investing in and developing sequels and content for our top titles, we are continually exploring additional ways to expand those franchises. Further, we invest in new properties in an effort to develop the future top franchises. In 2014, we released Hearthstone and Destiny, in 2015, we released Heroes of the Storm, and in 2016, we released Overwatch. There is no guarantee these investments will result in established franchises. Additionally, to diversify our portfolio of key franchises and increase our presence in the mobile market, on February23, 2016, we acquired King. Overall, we do expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our, and the industry s, revenues and profits in the near future. Accordingly, our ability to maintain our top franchises and our ability to successfully compete against our competitors top franchises can significantly impact our performance. Recurring Revenue Business Models Increased consumer online connectivity has allowed us to offer players new investment opportunities and to shift our business to a more recurring and year-round model. Offering downloadable content and microtransactions, in addition to full games, allows our players to access and invest in new content throughout the year. This incremental content not only provides additional high-margin revenue, it can also increase engagement. Also, mobile games, and free-to-play games more broadly, are generally less seasonal. 30 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data The following table sets forth condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated in dollars and as a percentage of total net revenues, except for cost of revenues, which are presented as a percentage of associated revenues (amounts in millions): (1)In periods prior to the second quarter of 2016, we presented cost of revenues in our consolidated statements of operations using the following four financial statement captions: Cost of sales product costs, Cost of sales online, Cost of sales software royalties and amortization, and Cost of sales intellectual property licenses. Since the second quarter of 2016, we have revised the presentation in our condensed consolidated statements of operations to more clearly align our costs of revenues with the associated revenue captions as follows: Cost of revenues product sales: (i) Product costs includes the manufacturing cost of goods produced and sold. This generally includes product costs, manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts, personnel-related costs, warehousing, and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones). (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to product sales revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is the amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to product sales revenues. 31 Cost of revenues subscription, licensing, and other revenues: (i) Game operations and distribution costs includes costs to operate our games, such as customer service, internet bandwidth and server costs, platform provider fees, and payment provider fees. (ii) Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses includes the amortization of capitalized software costs and royalties attributable to subscription, licensing, and other revenues. These are costs capitalized on the balance sheet until the respective games are released, at which time the capitalized costs are amortized. Also included is the amortization of intangible assets recognized in purchase accounting attributable to subscription, licensing, and other revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to this current presentation. Consolidated Net Revenues The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues and the increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): Consolidated net revenues The increase in consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King revenues for the full quarter while the comparable prior period only included King revenues for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date; revenues recognized from Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter that was released in May 2016; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016 with no comparable release in 2015. The increase was partially offset by: lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare (which, when referred to herein, is inclusive of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered ), which was released in November 2016, as compared to the performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III , the comparable 2015 title (although, the lower revenues recognized were partially offset by higher revenues recognized from digital content for the Call of Duty franchise, driven by the continued strong digital content performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III ); lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Rise of Iron expansion, which was released in September 2016, as compared to The Taken King expansion, a larger expansion that released in September 2015; and lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone . Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized The decrease in net deferred revenues recognized for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to lower deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise. The decrease was partially offset by: deferred revenues recognized from Overwatch ; and higher deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by deferred revenues recognized on World of Warcraft: Legion which was released in August 2016 with no comparable release in 2015. 32 Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $34million on Activision Blizzard s consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the impact on net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and British pound. Operating Segment Results Currently, we have three reportable segments. Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker ( CODM ). The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of: the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games; share-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting; and fees and other expenses (including legal fees, expenses and accruals) related to acquisitions, associated integration activities, and financings; certain restructuring costs; and other non-cash charges. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organization structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments. Information on the reportable segments and reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 are presented in the table below (amounts in millions): 33 (1) Other segments include other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our MLG, Studios and Distribution businesses. Other segments also include unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses, such as legal, banking and professional services fees, primarily related to the King Acquisition and associated integration activities, inclusive of related debt financings. (3) Reflects restructuring charges incurred, primarily severance costs. (4) Reflects a non-cash accounting charge to reclassify certain cumulative translation losses into earnings due to the substantial liquidation of certain of our foreign entities. Segment Net Revenues Activision The decrease in Activision s net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to lower revenues from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2016, inclusive of its digital content, as compared toCall of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title, which was the third game in our successful Black Ops series. 34 The decrease was partially offset by: higher revenues from Call of Duty: Black Ops III , as compared to Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare , the comparable 2014 title; and higher revenues from the Skylanders franchise. Blizzard The increase in Blizzard s net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to revenues from Overwatch, which was released in May2016, and from the World of Warcraft franchise due to the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August2016. King The increase in King s net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to the current period including King revenues for the full quarter while the comparable prior period only included King revenues for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date. Segment Income from Operations Activision The decrease in Activision s operating income for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to lower revenues. The decrease was partially offset by lower product development costs, driven by lower accrued bonuses and less spending to support current game releases. Blizzard The increase in Blizzard s operating income for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to higher revenues. The increase was partially offset by higher product development costs to support current and future releases and lower capitalization of software development costs due to timing of game development cycles. King The increase in King s operating income for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to the current period including King results of operations for the full quarter while the comparable prior period only included King results of operations for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date. Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $16 million on reportable segment net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the impact on reportable segment net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2016. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and British pound. 35 Consolidated Results Net Revenues by Distribution Channel The following table details our consolidated net revenues by distribution channel for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by distribution channel for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, was as follows (amounts in millions): (1)We define revenues from digital online channels as revenues from digitally distributed subscriptions, licensing royalties, value-added services, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products. (2)Net revenues from Other include revenues from our MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Digital Online Channel Net Revenues Net Revenues The increase in net revenues from digital online channels for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King revenues for the full quarter while the comparable prior period only included King revenues for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date; revenues recognized from Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter that was released in May 2016; higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016 with no comparable release in 2015; and higher revenues recognized from digital content for the Call of Duty franchise, driven by the continued strong digital content performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III . The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone. 36 Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized The increase in net deferred revenues recognized from digital online channels for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: net deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare digital content in 2017 as compared to a net deferral of revenues from Call of Duty: Black Ops III digital content in 2016, primarily due to the stronger comparable performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III ; deferred revenues recognized from Overwatch ; and higher deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by deferred revenues recognized on World of Warcraft: Legion which was released in August 2016 with no comparable release in 2015. The increase was partially offset by lower deferred revenues recognized from Hearthstone. Retail Channel Net Revenues Net Revenues The decrease in net revenues from retail channels for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November 2016, as compared to the performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III , the comparable 2015 title; and lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise. The decrease was partially offset by: higher revenues from the Skylanders franchise; and revenues recognized from Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter that was released in May 2016. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized The decrease in net deferred revenues recognized from retail channels for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: lower deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare , which was released in November 2016, as compared to Call of Duty: Black Ops III , the comparable 2015 title; and lower deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise. 37 Net Revenues by Geographic Region The following table details our consolidated net revenues by geographic region for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): (1) EMEA consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions. Americas The increase in net revenues in the Americas region for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King revenues for the full quarter while the comparable prior period only included King revenues for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date; revenues recognized from Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter that was released in May 2016; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016 with no comparable release in 2015. The increase was partially offset by: lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November 2016, as compared to the performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III , the comparable 2015 title; and lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise. EMEA The increase in net revenues in the EMEA region for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to the same drivers and partially offsetting factors as those for the Americas region discussed above. Asia Pacific The increase in net revenues in the Asia Pacific region for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: revenues recognized from Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter that was released in May 2016; higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King revenues for the full quarter while the comparable prior period only included King revenues for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft . The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone. 38 Net Revenues by Platform The following tables detail our consolidated net revenues by platform for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from Mobile and ancillary include revenues from mobile devices, as well as non-platform-specific game-related revenues, such as standalone sales of toys and accessories from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (2) Net revenues from Other include revenues from our MLG, Studios, and Distribution businesses. Console The decrease in net revenues from the console platform for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November 2016, as compared to the performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III , the comparable 2015 title (although, the lower revenues recognized were partially offset by higher revenues recognized from digital content for the Call of Duty franchise, driven by the continued strong digital content performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III ); and lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise. The decrease was partially offset by revenues recognized from Overwatch, a team-based first-person shooter that was released in May2016. PC The increase in net revenues from the PC platform for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: revenues recognized from Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter that was released in May 2016; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016 with no comparable release in 2015. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone. Mobile and ancillary The increase in net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King revenues for the full quarter while the comparable prior period only included King revenues for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from Hearthstone. 39 Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following tables detail the components of cost of revenues in dollars and as a percentage of associated net revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): Cost of Revenues Product Sales: The decrease in product costs for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to the decreased in consolidated net product revenues for the period. This was partially offset by product costs resulting from the increased revenues of our relatively lower-margin Distribution business. The decrease in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: lower developer royalties and lower software amortization from the Destiny franchise due to the timing of releases; and lower software amortization associated with Guitar Hero Live , which was released in October 2015 with no comparable release in 2016. The decrease was partially offset by software amortization from World of Warcraft: Legion, which was released in August2016 with no comparable release in 2015. Cost of Revenues Subscription, Licensing, and Other Revenues: The increase in game operations and distribution costs for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to higher online costs and platform provider fees associated with revenues from King, as the current period includes King costs for the full quarter while the comparable prior period only included King revenues and associated costs for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date. The increase in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to subscription, licensing, and other revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to a full quarter amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition while the comparable prior period only included a partial quarter of amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets following the King Closing Date. 40 Product Development (amounts in millions) The increase in product development costs for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: increased costs related to King as the current period includes a full quarter of costs while the comparable prior period only included King costs for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date; and higher Blizzard product development costs to support current and future releases and lower capitalization of software development costs due to timing of game development cycles. The increase was partially offset by lower Activision product development costs, driven by lower accrued bonuses and less spending to support current game releases. Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions) The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: increased amortization of the customer base intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition and increased sales and marketing spending to support King s titles, as the current period includes a full quarter of costs while the comparable prior period only included King costs for the partial quarter following the King Closing Date; and increased spending on sales and marketing activity to support the Destiny franchise, with Destiny 2 , the first sequel to Destiny , expected to launch in September 2017. The increase was partially offset by lower sales and marketing costs on the Skylanders franchise since there is no planned new game launch in 2017. General and Administrative (amounts in millions) The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to: increased personnel costs to support the growth of our business and expanding areas of opportunity; and the inclusion in the current period of a non-cash accounting charge to reclassify certain losses included in our cumulative translation adjustments into earnings due to the substantial liquidation of certain of our foreign entities. The increase was partially offset by lower transaction costs, as the three months ended March31, 2016 included higher transaction costs related to the King Acquisition. 41 Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions) The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, was primarily due to our lower total outstanding debt and lower interest rates on our current debt instruments as a result of our refinancing activities in 2016. Income Tax Expense (amounts in millions) The income tax expense of $27 million for the three months ended March31, 2017, reflects an effective tax rate of 6%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 11% for the three months ended March31, 2016.The decrease is due to increased excess tax benefits from share-based payments, partially offset by proportionately more earnings generated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates and an increase of reserves for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 6% for the three months ended March31, 2017 is lower than the US statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to foreign earnings taxed at lower statutory rates, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, and the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, partially offset by an increase of reserves for uncertain tax positions. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits, and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters;recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies from share-based payments; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. Further information about our income taxes is provided in Note10 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q. Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths. In the near term, we expect our business to remain strong and to continue to generate significant operating cash flows. Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as our anticipated dividend payments, share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities. With our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.3 billion at March31, 2017, and the expected cash flows provided by our operating activities, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet daily operations for the foreseeable future. We also believe that we have sufficient working capital ($2.1 billion at March31, 2017) to finance our operational and financing requirements for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, we have the availability of a $250million revolving credit facility. As of March31, 2017, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $2.0 billion, as compared to $1.9 billion as of December31, 2016. If the cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. are needed in the future for our operations in the U.S., we would accrue and pay the required U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. 42 Furthermore, our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the fourth quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. On a continuing basis, we consider various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our business results, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, share repurchases, and other structural changes. These transactions may result in future cash proceeds or payments. Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions) Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities The primary drivers of cash flows associated with our operating activities include the collection of customer receivables generated from the sale of our products and services. These collections are typically partially offset by: payments to vendors for the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of our products; payments for customer service support for our consumers; payments to third-party developers and intellectual property holders; payments for interest on our debt; payments for software development; payments for tax liabilities; and payments to our workforce. Cash flows provided by operating activities for the three months ended March31, 2017 were $411 million, as compared to $337 million for the three months ended March31, 2016. The increase was driven by higher net income for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, along with larger adjustments to net income for non-cash charges, which were primarily associated with the amortization of the acquired intangibles in the King Acquisition. The increase was partially offset by changes in our working capital due to the timing of collections and payments. Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities The primary drivers of cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions. Cash flows used in investing activities for the three months ended March31, 2017 were $23 million, as compared to $1.1 billion for the three months ended March31, 2016. The decrease in the cash used was primarily due to cash used for the King Acquisition in the three months ended March31, 2016, with no comparable transaction in the current period. Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Financing Activities The primary drivers of cash flows used in financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt and transactions involving our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock to employees upon the exercise of options, as well as the payment of dividends. 43 Cash flows used in financing activities for the three months ended March31, 2017 were $404 million, as compared to cash flows provided by financing activities of $1.8 billion for the three months ended March31, 2016. The change is primarily attributed to our debt financing activities. For the three months ended March31, 2017, we had net debt repayments of $500 million, as compared to $1.8 billion of net debt proceeds for the three months ended March31, 2016, the proceeds of which were used to fund the King Acquisition. The cash flows used in financing activities for the three months ended March31, 2017 were partially offset by higher proceeds from option exercises of $109 million, as compared to $24 million for the three months ended March31, 2016. Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $19 million and $1 million on our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The change is primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound and the Euro. Debt As of December31, 2016, our total outstanding debt was $4.9 billion. bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 2.92%. On February3, 2017, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment ) to our credit agreement, which was originally executed on October11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the Credit Agreement ). The Sixth Amendment (i)provided for a new tranche of term loans A in an aggregate principal amount of $2.55billion (the 2017 TLA ) and (ii)released each of our subsidiary guarantors from their respective guarantees provided under the Credit Agreement. All proceeds of the 2017 TLA, together with additional cash on hand of $139 million, were used to fully retire the term loans then outstanding under the Credit Agreement (the 2016 TLA ), including all accrued and unpaid interest thereon. The terms of the 2017 TLA, other than the absence of the subsidiary guarantees, are generally the same as the terms of the 2016 TLA. The fees incurred as a result of the Sixth Amendment were not material. The 2017 TLA will mature on August23, 2021. During the three months ended March31, 2017, we reduced our total outstanding term loan balances by $500 million, comprised of $139 million of cash used to retire the 2016 TLA, as discussed above, and a $361 million cash prepayment on the 2017 TLA. As a result of our payments, we satisfied the remaining required quarterly principal repayments for the entire term of the Credit Agreement. As a result of the above activities, our total outstanding debt as of March31, 2017 was $4.4 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 3.12%. A summary of our debt as of March31, 2017, is as follows (amounts in millions): 44 A summary of our debt as of December31, 2016, is as follows (amounts in millions): Refer to Note7 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for further disclosures regarding our debt obligations. Dividends On February2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.30 per common share, payable on May10, 2017, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2017. We have recorded $226 million of dividends payable in Accrued expenses and other liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March31, 2017. Capital Expenditures For the year ending December31, 2017, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $130 million, primarily for leasehold improvements, computer hardware, and software purchases.During the three months ended March31, 2017, capital expenditures were $21 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, Activision Blizzard had no significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that they are made. These estimates, judgments, and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments, or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions, and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following: Revenue Recognition including Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables Allowances for Returns and Price Protection Allowance for Inventory Obsolescence Software Development Costs Income Taxes Fair Value Estimates (including Business Combinations and Assessment of Impairment of Assets) Share-Based Payments During the three months ended March31, 2017, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates. Refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in PartII,Item7 of our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. 45 Recently issued accounting pronouncements Below are recently issued accounting pronouncements that were most significant to our accounting policy activities. For a detailed discussion of all relevant recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note15 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q. Recently adopted accounting pronouncements Inventory In July2015, the FASB issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2017, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. Recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted Revenue recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S.GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017, and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. As previously disclosed, we believe the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard may have a significant impact on the accounting for our sales of our games with significant online functionality for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) for unspecified future updates and ongoing online services provided. Under the current accounting standards, VSOE for undelivered elements is required. This requirement will be eliminated under the new standard. Accordingly, we may be required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, as compared to the current requirement of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated offering period. This potential difference may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption of this new guidance. We are continuing to evaluate the adoption method that we will utilize as well as the additional impacts of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements and related disclosures. Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease and lessees will need to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received, and any prepaid lease payments. Operating leases will result in a straight-line expense pattern, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Statement of Cash Flows-Restricted Cash In November2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The new standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain any change during the period in total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Therefore, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018, and should be applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. 46 We are evaluating the impact of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. We expect there would be a significant impact to the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March31, 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6billion movement in restricted cash as a result of transferring cash into escrow at December31, 2015 to facilitate the King Acquisition and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 in connection with the King Acquisition. Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance would be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, would not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows.Item 1. Financial Statements ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions) (1) Excludes deferral and amortization of share-based compensation expense. (2) Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of share-based compensation expense. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY For the Six Months Ended June30, 2017 (Unaudited) (Amounts and shares in millions, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 8 ACTIVISION BLIZZARD,INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation Activision Blizzard,Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services across all of the major gaming platforms, including video game consoles, personal computers ( PC ), and mobile devices. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December1992. We are the result of the 2008 business combination (the Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), and Vivendi Games,Inc. ( Vivendi Games ), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ), we acquired King Digital Entertainment, a leading interactive mobile entertainment company ( King ), by purchasing all of its outstanding shares (the King Acquisition ), as further described in Note14. Our condensed consolidated financial statements include the operations of King commencing on the King Closing Date. Our Segments As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure such that the Major League Gaming ( MLG ) business now operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ). As such, commencing with the second quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, is now a component of the Blizzard operating segment. MLG will be responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League TM , along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content. Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments as follows: (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly in console gaming. Activision primarily delivers content through retail channels or digital downloads, including full-game sales and in-game purchases, as well as licenses of software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny. Activision s key product franchises include: Call of Duty , a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms; Destiny, an online universe of first-person action gameplay (which we call a shared-world shooter ) currently for console platforms; and Skylanders , a franchise geared towards children that brings physical toys to life digitally in the game, primarily for console platforms. 9 (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly in PC gaming. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail channels or digital downloads, including subscriptions, full-game sales, and in-game purchases, as well as licenses of software to third-party or related party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content, online social connectivity across all Blizzard games, and the creation of user-generated content for Blizzard s games. Commencing with the second quarter of 2017, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is devoted to esports. Blizzard s key product franchises include: World of Warcraft , a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game for the PC; StarCraft , a real-time strategy PC franchise; Diablo , an action role-playing franchise for the PC and console platforms; Hearthstone , an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; Heroes of the Storm , a free-to-play team brawler for the PC; and Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter for the PC and console platforms. (iii)King Digital Entertainment King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS. King also distributes its content and services on online social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King s games are free-to-play, however, players can acquire in-game virtual items, either with virtual currency the players purchase or directly using real currency. King s key product franchises, all of which are for the PC and mobile platforms, include: Candy Crush , which features match three games; Farm Heroes , which also features match three games; Pet Rescue , which is a clicker game; and Bubble Witch , which features bubble shooter games. Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: the Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in October 2016, released the first season of the animated TV series Skylanders Academy on Netflix; and the Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Basis of Consolidation and Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) for interim reporting. Accordingly, certain notes or other information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted if they substantially duplicate the disclosures contained in our annual audited consolidated financial statements. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016. 10 The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for the fair statement of our financial position and results of operations in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been included in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates and assumptions. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. The Company considers events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued, to provide additional evidence relative to certain estimates or to identify matters that require additional disclosures. Supplemental Cash Flow Information: Non-cash Investing and Financing activities For the six months ended June30, 2016, we had non-cash purchase price consideration of $89 million related to vested and unvested stock options and awards that were assumed and replaced with Activision Blizzard equity or deferred cash awards in the King Acquisition. Refer to Note 14 for further discussion. 2. Inventories, Net Our inventories, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): At June30, 2017, and December31, 2016, inventory reserves were $32 million and $45 million, respectively. 3. Software Development and Intellectual Property Licenses The following table summarizes the components of our capitalized software development costs (amounts in millions): As of June30, 2017, and December31, 2016, intellectual property licenses were not material to our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Amortization of capitalized software development costs and intellectual property licenses was as follows (amounts in millions): 11 4. Intangible Assets, Net Intangible assets, net consist of the following (amounts in millions): Amortization expense of intangible assets was $194 million and $385 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively. Amortization expense of intangible assets was $203 million and $285 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. At June30, 2017, future amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is estimated as follows (amounts in millions): 12 5. Goodwill The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the six months ended June30, 2017, are as follows (amounts in millions): (1) As a result of the change in our operating segments discussed in Note 1, goodwill of $12 million previously reported within the Other segments is now included in the Blizzard reportable segment. The prior period balance has been revised to reflect this change. 6. Fair Value Measurements Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) literature regarding fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value. This hierarchy requires entities to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs. 13 Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis The table below segregates all of our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis into the most appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine the fair value at the measurement date (amounts in millions): ARS represented the only level3 investment held by the Company as of December31, 2016. During the six months ended June30, 2017 we sold our ARS investment. The realized gain on the sale of this investment was not material. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges At June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, we did not have any outstanding foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges. Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges ( Cash Flow Hedges ) At June30, 2017, the gross notional amount of outstanding Cash Flow Hedges was approximately $356 million. The fair value of these contracts, all of which have remaining maturities of 12 months or less, was $9 million of net unrealized losses. At June30, 2017, we had approximately $1 million of net realized but unrecognized gains recorded within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) associated with contracts that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues. Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. 14 At December31, 2016, the gross notional amount of outstanding Cash Flow Hedges was approximately $346 million. The fair value of these contracts was $22 million of net unrealized gains as of December31, 2016. During the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, there was no ineffectiveness relating to our Cash Flow Hedges. The amount of pre-tax net realized gains associated with these contracts that were reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and into earnings was not material. Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis. 7. Debt Credit Facilities At December31, 2016, we had outstanding term loans A of approximately $2.7 billion (the 2016 TLA ) and $250 million available under a revolving credit facility (the Revolver ) pursuant to a credit agreement executed on October11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the Credit Agreement ). On February3, 2017, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment ) to the Credit Agreement. The Sixth Amendment: (i)provided for a new tranche of term loans A in an aggregate principal amount of $2.55 billion (the 2017 TLA and, together with the Revolver, the Credit Facilities ) and (ii)released each of our subsidiary guarantors from their respective guarantees provided under the Credit Agreement. All proceeds of the 2017 TLA, together with additional cash on hand of $139 million, were used to fully retire the 2016 TLA, including all accrued and unpaid interest thereon. The terms of the 2017 TLA, other than the absence of the subsidiary guarantees, are generally the same as the terms of the 2016 TLA. The fees incurred as a result of the Sixth Amendment were not material. At June30, 2017, the 2017 TLA bore interest at 2.48%. The 2017 TLA will mature on August23, 2021. We were in compliance with the terms of the Credit Facilities as of June30, 2017. To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver. During the six months ended June30, 2017, we reduced our total outstanding term loan balances by $1.7 billion. This included $139 million of cash used to retire the 2016 TLA, as discussed above, along with prepayments on the 2017 TLA of $361 million made on February15, 2017 and $1.2 billion made on May26, 2017. The Mayprepayment was made using proceeds from a concurrent issuance of $1.2 billion in notes, as discussed further below. As part of that refinancing, we wrote-off unamortized discount and deferred financing costs of $12 million, which is included in Interest and other expense (income), net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. The prepayments made on our 2017 TLA have satisfied the remaining required quarterly principal repayments for the entire term of the Credit Agreement. Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 for further details regarding our Credit Agreement, key terms, and amendments made to our Credit Agreement. 15 Unsecured Senior Notes At December31, 2016, we had the following unsecured senior notes outstanding: $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September 2023 that we issued on September 19, 2013 (the 2023 Notes ), in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ); and $650 million of 2.3% unsecured senior notes due September 2021 (the Unregistered 2021 Notes ) and $850 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due September 2026 (the Unregistered 2026 Notes ) that we issued on September 19, 2016, in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act. In connection with the issuance of the Unregistered 2021 Notes and the Unregistered 2026 Notes, we entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ), among the Company, and the representatives of the initial purchasers of the Unregistered 2021 Notes and the Unregistered 2026 Notes. Under the Registration Rights Agreement, we were required to use commercially reasonable efforts to, within one year of the issue date of the Unregistered 2021 Notes and the Unregistered 2026 Notes, among other things, (1)file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange each series of the Unregistered 2021 Notes and the Unregistered 2026 Notes for new notes that were substantially identical in all material respects (except for the provisions relating to the transfer restrictions and payment of additional interest) (the Exchange Offer ), and (2)cause that registration statement (the Exchange Offer Registration Statement ) to be declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act. The Exchange Offer Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on April28, 2017 and we completed the Exchange Offer on June1, 2017, such that all the Unregistered 2021 Notes and Unregistered 2026 Notes were exchanged for registered 2021 notes (the 2021 Notes ) and registered 2026 notes (the 2026 Notes ). In addition, on May26, 2017, in a public underwritten offering, we issued $400 million of 2.6% unsecured senior notes due June2022 (the 2022 Notes ), $400 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due June2027 (the 2027 Notes ), and $400 million of 4.5% unsecured senior notes due June2047 (the 2047 Notes , and together with the 2021 Notes, the 2022 Notes, the 2023 Notes, the 2026 Notes, and the 2027 Notes, the Notes ), which were outstanding at June30, 2017. We may redeem some or all of the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes and the 2047 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time on or after May15, 2022, March15, 2027 and December15, 2046, respectively, and in each case at 100% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes prior to May15, 2022, March15, 2027 and December15, 2046, respectively, and in each case at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest. Upon the occurrence of certain change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. These repurchase requirements are considered clearly and closely related to the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes and were not accounted for separately upon issuance. The 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes contain covenants that place restrictions in certain circumstances on, among other things, the incurrence of secured debt, entry into sale or leaseback transactions, and certain merger or consolidation transactions. The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities described above. The Notes are not secured and are effectively subordinated to any of the Company s existing and future indebtedness that is secured. The Company was in compliance with the terms of each of the Notes as of June30, 2017. 16 Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March15 and September15 of each year for the 2021 Notes, the 2023 Notes, and 2026 Notes, and payable semi-annually in arrears on June15 and December15 of each year for the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and 2047 Notes. Accrued interest payable is recorded within Accrued expenses and other liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.As of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, we had accrued interest payable of $30 million and $25 million, respectively, related to the Notes. Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 for further details regarding our key terms under our indentures that govern the 2021 Notes, the 2023 Notes, and the 2026 Notes. Interest Expense and Financing Costs Fees and discounts associated with the issuance of our debt instruments are recorded as debt discount, which reduces their respective carrying values, and is amortized over their respective terms. Amortization expense is recorded within Interest and other expense (income), net in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. In connection with the May2017 note issuances, we incurred approximately $20 million of discounts and financing costs that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017, interest expense was $36 million and $71 million, respectively; amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $2 million and $9 million, respectively; and commitment fees for the Revolver were not material. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016, interest expense was $55 million and $107 million, respectively; amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $8 million and $13 million, respectively; and commitment fees for the Revolver were not material. A summary of our debt is as follows (amounts in millions): 17 As of June30, 2017, the scheduled maturities and contractual principal repayments of our debt for each of the five succeeding years are as follows (amounts in millions): With the exception of the 2023 Notes, using Level 2 inputs (i.e., observable market prices in less-than-active markets), the carrying values of our debt instruments approximated their fair value as of June30, 2017, as the interest rates are similar to current rates at which we can borrow funds over the selected interest periods. At June30, 2017, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair value of the 2023 Notes was $809 million. At December31, 2016, the carrying value of the 2016 TLA approximated its fair value, based on Level 2 inputs. At December31, 2016, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2021 Notes, 2023 Notes, and 2026 Notes were $635 million, $818 million, and $808 million, respectively. 8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at June30, 2017 and 2016, were as follows (amounts in millions): Income taxes were not provided for foreign currency translation items as these are considered indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. 18 9. Operating Segments and Geographic Region Currently, we have three reportable segments. Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker ( CODM ). The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of: the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games; share-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting; fees and other expenses (including legal fees, expenses, and accruals) related to acquisitions, associated integration activities, and financings; certain restructuring costs; and other non-cash charges. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organization structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments. As discussed in Note1, commencing with the second quarter of 2017, we made changes to our operating segments which reflect the changes in our organization and reporting structure. Our MLG business, which was previously included in the non-reportable Other segments, is now presented within the Blizzard reportable operating segment. Prior period amounts have been revised to reflect this change. The change had no impact on consolidated net revenues or operating income. Information on the reportable segments and reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 are presented below (amounts in millions): 19 (1) Other segments include other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Studios and Distribution businesses. Other segments also include unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses, such as legal, banking and professional services fees, primarily related to the King Acquisition and associated integration activities, inclusive of related debt financings. (3) Reflects restructuring charges incurred, primarily severance costs. (4) Reflects a non-cash accounting charge to reclassify certain cumulative translation gains (losses) into earnings due to the substantial liquidation of certain of our foreign entities. 20 Geographic information presented below for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, is based on the location of the paying customer. Net revenues from external customers by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) EMEA consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions. The Company s net revenues in the U.S. were 46% and 48% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% of consolidated net revenues for both the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016. No other country s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017 or 2016. The Company s net revenues in the U.S. were 47% of consolidated net revenues for both the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016. The Company s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% and 11% of consolidated net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. No other country s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017 or 2016. Net revenues by platform were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from Mobile and ancillary include revenues from mobile devices, as well as non-platform specific game-related revenues, such as standalone sales of toys and accessories from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (2) Net revenues from Other include revenues from our Studios and Distribution businesses, as well as revenues from MLG. 21 Long-lived assets by geographic region at June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, were as follows (amounts in millions): (1) The only long-lived assets that we classify by region are our long-term tangible fixed assets, which consist of property, plant, and equipment assets; all other long-term assets are not allocated by location. 10. Income Taxes The Company accounts for its provision for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740,Income Taxes, which requires an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full year to be applied to the interim period, taking into account year-to-date amounts and projected results for the full year.The provision for income taxes represents federal, foreign, state, and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters;recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies from share-based payments; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. The income tax expense of $50 million for the three months ended June30, 2017, reflects an effective tax rate of 17%, which is higher than the effective tax rate of 10% for the three months ended June30, 2016.The increase is due to a decrease in excess tax benefits from share-based payments and an increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by a higher mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates. The income tax expense of $77 million for the six months ended June30, 2017, reflects an effective tax rate of 10%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 11% for the six months ended June30, 2016.The decrease is due to an increase in excess tax benefits from share-based payments and a higher mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, partially offset by an increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 17% and 10% for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively, is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to foreign earnings taxed at lower statutory rates, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, and the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, partially offset by an increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) is currently examining Activision Blizzard s federal tax returns for the 2009, 2010, and 2011 tax years.During the second quarter of 2015, the Company transitioned the review of its transfer pricing methodology from the advanced pricing agreement review process to the IRS examination team. Their review could result in a different allocation of profits and losses under the Company s transfer pricing agreements. Such allocation could have a positive or negative impact on our provision for uncertain tax positions for the period in which such a determination is reached and the relevant periods thereafter. The Company also has several state level and non-U.S. audits pending. 22 As part of purchase price accounting for the King Acquisition, the Company assumed $74 million of uncertain tax positions, primarily related to the transfer pricing on King tax years occurring prior to the King Acquisition. The Company is currently in negotiations with the relevant jurisdictions and taxing authorities with respect to King s transfer pricing, which could result in a different allocation of profits and losses between the relevant jurisdictions. Vivendi Games results for the period from January1, 2008 through July9, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign state and local income tax returns filed by Vivendi or its affiliates, while Vivendi Games results for the period from July10, 2008 through December31, 2008 are included in the consolidated federal and certain foreign, state and local income tax returns filed by Activision Blizzard. IRS Appeals proceedings concerning Vivendi Games tax return for the 2008 tax year were concluded during July2016, but that year remains open to examination by other major taxing authorities. The resolution of the 2008 IRS Appeals process did not have a material impact to the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by tax authorities in various jurisdictions, including France. These proceedings may lead to adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or provisions for uncertain tax positions. Such proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the period or periods in which the matters are resolved or in which appropriate tax provisions are taken into account in our financial statements. If we were to receive a materially adverse assessment from a taxing jurisdiction, we would plan to vigorously contest it and consider all of our options, including the pursuit of judicial remedies. The final resolution of the Company s global tax disputes is uncertain. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of disputes, including the probability determination and estimation of the potential exposure. Based on current information, in the opinion of the Company s management, the ultimate resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations, except as noted above. 23 11. Computation of Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share (amounts in millions, except per share data): Certain of our unvested restricted stock units meet the definition of participating securities as they participate in earnings based on their rights to dividends or dividend equivalents.Therefore, we are required to use the two-class method in our computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share. For both the three and six months ended June30, 2017, on a weighted-average basis, we had outstanding unvested restricted stock units of less than 1 million shares of common stock that are participating in earnings. For both the three and six months ended June30, 2016, on a weighted-average basis, we had outstanding unvested restricted stock units of 3 million shares of common stock that participated in earnings. The vesting of certain of our employee-related restricted stock units and options are contingent upon the satisfaction of pre-defined performance measures.These shares are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period. Approximately 9 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for both the three and six months ended June30, 2017 as their respective performance measures had not yet been met. Approximately 10 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for both the three and six months ended June30, 2016 as their respective performance measures had not yet been met. Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive. Therefore, options to acquire less than 1 million and 5 million shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively, and options to acquire 4 million shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for both the three and six months ended June30, 2016, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. 24 12. Capital Transactions Repurchase Program On February2, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock during the two-year period from February13, 2017 through February12, 2019. As of June30, 2017, we have not repurchased any shares under this program. Dividends On February2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.30 per common share. On May10, 2017, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $226 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2017. On May26, 2017, we made related dividend equivalent payments of less than $1 million to certain holders of restricted stock units. On February2, 2016, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.26 per common share. On May11, 2016, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $192 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2016. On May27, 2016, we made related dividend equivalent payments of $3 million to certain holders of restricted stock units. 13. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings We are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, such routine claims and lawsuits are not significant and we do not expect them to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 14. Acquisitions King Digital Entertainment On February23, 2016, we completed the King Acquisition, purchasing all of King s outstanding shares. As a result, King became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Activision Blizzard. King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS, and on online and social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly-complementary mobile business positions us as a global leader in interactive entertainment across console, PC, and mobile platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. The aggregate purchase price of the King Acquisition was approximately $5.8 billion, which was paid on the King Closing Date and funded primarily with $3.6 billion of existing cash and $2.2 billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. We identified and recorded assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values at the King Closing Date and allocated the remaining value of approximately $2.7 billion to goodwill. 25 The final purchase price allocation was as follows (amounts in millions): During the six months ended June30, 2016, the Company incurred $38 million of expenses related to the King Acquisition, which are included within General and administrative in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the debt financing that occurred on the King Closing Date, we incurred $38 million of discounts and financing costs that were capitalized and recorded within Long-term debt, net on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Share-Based Compensation In connection with the King Acquisition, a majority of the outstanding King options and awards that were unvested as of the King Closing Date were converted into equivalent options and awards with respect to shares of the Company s common stock, using an equity award exchange ratio calculated in accordance with the transaction agreement. As a result, replacement stock options and equity awards of 10 million and 3 million, respectively, were issued. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $76 million was included in the purchase price, while the remaining fair value will be recognized over the remaining service periods. As of December31, 2016, the future expense for the converted King unvested stock options and equity awards was approximately $40 million, which will be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 1.6 years. The remaining portion of outstanding unvested awards that were assumed were replaced with deferred cash awards. The cash proceeds were placed in an escrow-like account, with the cash releases occurring as future services are rendered in accordance with the awards original vesting schedules. The cash associated with these awards is recorded in Other current assets and Other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The portion of the fair value related to pre-combination services of $22 million was included in the purchase price while the remaining fair value of approximately $9 million will be recognized over the remaining service periods. Identifiable Intangible Assets Acquired and Goodwill The internally-developed franchises, customer base, developed software, and trade name intangible assets will be amortized to Cost of revenues subscription, licensing, and other revenues: Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, Sales and marketing, Cost of revenues subscription, licensing, and other revenues: Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses, and General and administrative, respectively. The intangible assets will be amortized over their estimated useful lives in proportion to the economic benefits received. 26 The $2.7 billion of goodwill recognized is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from accelerated expansion as an interactive entertainment provider in the mobile sector, future franchises, and technology, as well as the management team s proven ability to create future games and franchises. Approximately $620 million of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes in the U.S. King Net Revenue and Earnings The amount of net revenue and earnings attributable to King in the Company s condensed consolidated statement of operations during the three and six months ended June30, 2016, the period of the King Acquisition, are included in the table below. The amounts presented represent the net revenues and earnings after adjustments for purchase price accounting, inclusive of amortization of intangible assets, share-based payments, and deferral of revenues and related cost of revenues. Pro Forma Financial Information The unaudited financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations of the Company and King for the six months ended June30, 2016, on a pro forma basis, as though the acquisition had occurred on January1, 2015. The 2016 pro forma financial information presented includes the effects of adjustments related to amortization charges from acquired intangible assets, employee compensation from replacement equity awards issued in the King Acquisition and the profit-sharing bonus plan established as part of the King Acquisition, and interest expense from the new debt, among other adjustments. We also adjusted for Activision Blizzard and King non-recurring acquisition related costs of approximately $64 million for the six months ended June30, 2016. The unaudited pro forma financial information as presented below is for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have been achieved if the King Acquisition, and any borrowings undertaken to finance the King Acquisition, had taken place at the beginning of the earliest period presented, nor does it intend to be a projection of future results. 15. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Inventory In July2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2017, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. 27 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted Revenue Recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S.GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017. We anticipate adopting the accounting standard on January1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, which recognizes the cumulative effect upon adoption as an adjustment to retained earnings at the adoption date. As previously disclosed, we believe the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard may have a significant impact on the accounting for our sales of our games with significant online functionality for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) for unspecified future updates and ongoing online services provided. Under the current accounting standards, VSOE for undelivered elements is required. This requirement will be eliminated under the new standard. Accordingly, we will be required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, as compared to the current requirement of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated offering period. We expect this difference to primarily impact revenues from our Call of Duty franchise. Many of our other franchises, such as Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush, are hosted service arrangements and we do not expect any significant impact on the accounting for our sales of these games. Nonetheless, this difference may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption of the new guidance. We are continuing to evaluate the additional impacts of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements and related disclosures. Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and lessees will need to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received, and any prepaid lease payments. Operating leases will result in a straight-line expense pattern, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Currently, we do not plan to early adopt this new standard. Financial Instruments In January2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. The new standard, amongst other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income. The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The amendments related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) should be applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. 28 Statement of Cash Flows-Restricted Cash In November2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The new standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain any change during the period in total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Therefore, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018, and should be applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. We expect there would be a significant impact to the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6 billion movement in restricted cash resulting from the transfer of cash into escrow at December31, 2015 to facilitate the King Acquisition and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 in connection with the King Acquisition. Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance would be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, would not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. Goodwill In January2017, the FASB issued new guidance which eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Instead, if any entity forgoes a Step 0 test, an entity will be required to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit, as determined in Step 1 from the goodwill impairment test, with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge, if any, for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2019 and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 29 Item2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Business Overview Activision Blizzard,Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services across all of the major gaming platforms, including video game consoles, personal computers ( PC ), and mobile devices. The terms Activision Blizzard, the Company, we, us, and our are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard,Inc. and its subsidiaries. The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December1992. We are the result of the 2008 business combination (the Business Combination ) by and among the Company (then known as Activision,Inc.), VivendiS.A. ( Vivendi ), and Vivendi Games,Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi. In connection with the consummation of the Business Combination, Activision,Inc. was renamed Activision Blizzard,Inc. The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the ticker symbol ATVI. The King Acquisition On February23, 2016 (the King Closing Date ), we acquired King Digital Entertainment, a leading interactive mobile entertainment company ( King ), by purchasing all of its outstanding shares (the King Acquisition ). We made this acquisition because we believe that the addition of King s highly complementary mobile business positions us as a global leader in interactive entertainment across mobile, console, and PC platforms, as well as positioning us for future growth. The aggregate purchase price of approximately $5.8billion was funded primarily with $3.6billion of existing cash and $2.2billion of cash from new debt issued by the Company. King s results of operations since the King Closing Date are included in our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our Segments As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure such that the Major League Gaming ( MLG ) business now operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. ( Blizzard ). As such, commencing with the second quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, is now a component of the Blizzard operating segment.MLG will be responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League TM , along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content. Based on our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments as follows: (i)Activision Publishing,Inc. Activision Publishing,Inc. ( Activision ), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly in console gaming. Activision primarily delivers content through retail channels or digital downloads, including full-game sales and in-game purchases, as well as licenses of software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets and sells products which are principally based on our internally-developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny. Activision s key product franchises include: Call of Duty , a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms; Destiny, an online universe of first-person action gameplay (which we call a shared-world shooter ) currently for console platforms; and Skylanders , a franchise geared towards children that brings physical toys to life digitally in the game, primarily for console platforms. 30 (ii)Blizzard Entertainment,Inc. Blizzard is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly in PC gaming. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail channels or digital downloads, including subscriptions, full-game sales, and in-game purchases, as well as licenses of software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content, online social connectivity across all Blizzard games, and the creation of user-generated content for Blizzard s games. Commencing with the second quarter of 2017, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is devoted to esports. Blizzard s key product franchises include: World of Warcraft , a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game ( MMORPG ) for the PC; StarCraft , a real-time strategy PC franchise; Diablo , an action role-playing franchise for the PC and console platforms; Hearthstone , an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; Heroes of the Storm , a free-to-play team brawler for the PC; and Overwatch , a team-based first-person shooter for the PC and console platforms. (iii)King Digital Entertainment King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Android and iOS. King also distributes its content and services on online social platforms, such as Facebook and the king.com websites. King s games are free-to-play, however, players can acquire in-game virtual items, either with virtual currency the players purchase, or directly using real currency. King s key product franchises, all of which are for the PC and mobile platforms, include: Candy Crush , which features match three games; Farm Heroes , which also features match three games; Pet Rescue , which is a clicker game; and Bubble Witch , which features bubble shooter games. Other We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: the Activision Blizzard Studios ( Studios ) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in October 2016, released the first season of the animated TV series Skylanders Academy on Netflix; and the Activision Blizzard Distribution ( Distribution ) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware. Business Results and Highlights Financial Results During the three months ended June30, 2017: consolidated net revenues increased 4% to $1.63 billion and consolidated operating income increased 46% to $339 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.57 billion and consolidated operating income of $232 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016; revenues from digital online channels increased 15% to $1.31 billion, as compared to $1.14 billion for the three months ended June 30, 2016; 31 operating margin was 20.8%, as compared with 14.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2016, with the higher margin being primarily due to an increased percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin online digital channels; consolidated net income increased 61% to $243 million, as compared to $151 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016; consolidated net income included $13 million of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, as compared to $24 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016; and our diluted earnings per common share increased 60% to $0.32, as compared to $0.20 for the three months ended June 30, 2016. During the six months ended June30, 2017: consolidated net revenues increased 11% to $3.36 billion and consolidated operating income increased 20% to $831 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $3.03 billion and consolidated operating income of $693 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016; revenues from digital online channels increased 30% to $2.69 billion, as compared to $2.07 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2016; operating margin was 24.8%, as compared with 22.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2016, with the higher margin being primarily due to an increased percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin online digital channels; cash flows generated from operating activities were $676 million, a decrease of 20%, as compared to $840 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016; consolidated net income increased 30% to $669 million, as compared to $514 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016; consolidated net income included $82 million of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, as compared to $51 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016; and our diluted earnings per common share increased 29% to $0.88, as compared to $0.68 for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Since certain of our games are hosted or include online functionality that represents an essential component of gameplay and, as a result, a more-than-inconsequential separate deliverable, we initially defer the software-related revenues from the sale of these games and recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year. Net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 include a net effect of $213 million and $742 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues. Operating income for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 includes a net effect of $105 million and $501 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues. Release Highlights Games and digital downloadable content that were released during the three months ended June30, 2017 include: Activision s Continuum , the second downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare ; Activision s Call of Duty: Black Ops III Zombies Chronicles , a downloadable content pack of remastered zombies maps from Call of Duty: World at War, Call of Duty: Black Ops , and Call of Duty: Black Ops II ; Activision s Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy , a remastered version for PlayStation 4 of the first three Crash Bandicoot games; Blizzard s Journey to Un Goro , the latest expansion to Hearthstone ; and Blizzard s Rise of the Necromancer , a downloadable content pack for Diablo III. 32 Monthly Active Users: Measuring the Size of Our User Base We monitor monthly active users ( MAUs ) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base. MAUs are the number of individuals who played a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period. An individual who plays two of our games would be counted as two users. In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users. For Blizzard, an individual who plays the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user. The number of MAUs for a given period can be significantly impacted by the timing of new content releases, since new releases may cause a temporary surge in MAUs. Accordingly, although we believe that overall trending in the number of MAUs can be a meaningful performance metric, period-to-period fluctuations may not be indicative of longer-term trends. The following table details our average MAUs on a sequential quarterly basis for each of our reportable segments (amounts in millions): Average MAUs decreased by 24 million, or 6%, for the quarter ended June30, 2017, as compared to the quarter ended March31, 2017. The decrease in King s average MAUs is due to decreases across franchises reflecting the maturity of released titles, as well as a decrease in Bubble Witch 3 Saga MAUs during the current quarter given the title launched in the prior quarter. The increase in Blizzard s average MAUs is due primarily to higher MAUs for the Hearthstone and Heroes of the Storm franchises, in part due to content and feature releases during the quarter. Average MAUs decreased by 84million, or 17%, for the quarter ended June30, 2017, as compared to the quarter ended June30, 2016. The decrease in King s average MAUs is due to decreases across King s franchises that are largely attributable to less engaged users leaving the network. This decrease is partially offset by the increase in Blizzard s average MAUs, driven by the release of Overwatch in May2016, along with higher MAUs for the Hearthstone and Heroes of the Storm franchises. Management s Overview of Business Trends Interactive Entertainment and Mobile Gaming Growth Our business participates in the global interactive entertainment industry. Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 19% annually over the last four calendar years. The industry continues to benefit from additional players entering the market as interactive entertainment becomes more commonplace across age groups and as more developing regions increasingly gain access to this form of entertainment. 33 Further, the wide adoption of smart phones globally and the free-to-play business model on those platforms has increased the total addressable market for gaming significantly. Smart phones and associated free-to-play games have introduced gaming to new age groups and new regions and allowed gaming to occur more widely outside the home. Mobile gaming is now estimated to be larger than console and PC gaming and continues to grow at a significant rate. King is a leading developer of mobile and free-to-play games. In addition, our other business units have mobile efforts underway that present the opportunity for us to drive additional player investment from our franchises. Opportunities to Expand Franchises Outside of Games Our fans spend significant time investing in our franchises through purchases of our game content, whether through purchases of full games or downloadable content, or via microtransactions. Given the passion our players have for our franchises, we believe there are emerging opportunities to drive player investment outside of game purchases. These opportunities include esports, film and television, and consumer products. Our efforts to build these additional opportunities are still relatively nascent, but we view them as potentially significant sources of future revenues. As part of our efforts to take advantage of the esports opportunity, and as announced in July2017, we completed the sale of the first Overwatch League TM teams for major global cities to seven entrepreneurs and leaders from esports and traditional sports. The Overwatch League is the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Franchises The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive software industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 32% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2016. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues have historically been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises and these video games were responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, World of Warcraft, and Overwatch franchises, collectively, accounted for 69% of our consolidated net revenues, and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income, for 2016. The top titles in the industry are also becoming more consistent as players and revenues concentrate more heavily in established franchises. Each of the top 10 console franchises in 2016 was a previously established franchise. Similarly, according to U.S rankings for the Apple App Store and Google Play Store, per App Annie Intelligence as of June2017, the top 10 mobile games have an average tenure of 26months. In addition to investing in and developing sequels and content for our top titles, we are continually exploring additional ways to expand those franchises. Further, we invest in new properties in an effort to develop the future top franchises. In 2014, we released Hearthstone and Destiny, in 2015, we released Heroes of the Storm, and in 2016, we released Overwatch. There is no guarantee these investments will result in established franchises. Additionally, to diversify our portfolio of key franchises and increase our presence in the mobile market, on February23, 2016, we acquired King. Overall, we do expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our, and the industry s, revenues and profits in the near future. Accordingly, our ability to maintain our top franchises and our ability to successfully compete against our competitors top franchises can significantly impact our performance. Recurring Revenue Business Models Increased consumer online connectivity has allowed us to offer players new investment opportunities and to shift our business to a more recurring and year-round model. Offering downloadable content and microtransactions, in addition to full games, allows our players to access and invest in new content throughout the year. This incremental content not only provides additional high-margin revenue, it can also increase engagement. Also, mobile games, and free-to-play games more broadly, are generally less seasonal. 34 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data The following table sets forth condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated in dollars and as a percentage of total net revenues, except for cost of revenues, which are presented as a percentage of associated revenues (amounts in millions): Consolidated Net Revenues The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues and the increase/(decrease) in deferred net revenues recognized for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): 35 Consolidated Net Revenues Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The increase in consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: higher revenues recognized from Overwatch , which was released in May 2016; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2015. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare (which, when referred to herein, is inclusive of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered ) , which was released in November 2016, as compared to the performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III , the comparable 2015 title. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in consolidated net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: higher revenues recognized from Overwatch ; higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King revenues for the full year-to-date period, while the comparable prior period only included King revenues for the partial period following the King Closing Date; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2015 . The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, as compared tothe performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The increase in net deferred revenues recognized for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to higher deferred revenues recognized from Overwatch. The increase was partially offset by lower deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, as compared toCall of Duty: Black Ops III. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in net deferred revenues recognized for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: net deferred revenues recognized from Overwatch in 2017 as compared to a net deferral of revenues in the comparable prior period due to Overwatch s release in May 2016; and higher deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft: Legion . The increase was partially offset by lower deferred revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, as compared toCall of Duty: Black Ops III. 36 Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $28 million and $61 million on Activision Blizzard s consolidated net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively, as compared to the impact on net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2016. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and British pound. Operating Segment Results Currently, we have three reportable segments. Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker ( CODM ). The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of: the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games; share-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting; fees and other expenses (including legal fees, expenses, and accruals) related to acquisitions, associated integration activities, and financings; certain restructuring costs; and other non-cash charges. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto. Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organization structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments. As discussed in the Business Overview above, commencing with the second quarter of 2017, we made changes to our operating segments which reflect the changes in our organization and reporting structure. Our MLG business, which was previously included in the non-reportable Other segments, is now presented within the Blizzard reportable operating segment. Prior period amounts have been revised to reflect this change. This change had no impact on consolidated net revenues or operating income. 37 Information on the reportable segments and reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues from external customers and consolidated income before income tax expense for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 are presented in the table below (amounts in millions): (1) Other segments include other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Studios and Distribution businesses. Other segments also include unallocated corporate income and expenses. (2) Reflects fees and other expenses, such as legal, banking and professional services fees, primarily related to the King Acquisition and associated integration activities, inclusive of related debt financings. (3) Reflects restructuring charges incurred, primarily severance costs. (4) Reflects a non-cash accounting charge to reclassify certain cumulative translation losses into earnings due to the substantial liquidation of certain of our foreign entities. 38 Segment Net Revenues Activision Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in Activision s net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to lower revenues from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2016, as compared toCall of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title. The decrease was partially offset by: revenues from the Call of Duty: Black Ops III downloadable content pack, Zombies Chronicles , which was released in May 2017, with no comparable prior year release, as well as continued in-game microtransactions from Call of Duty: Black Ops III; and revenues from the release of the Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy in June 2017. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The decrease in Activision s net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the same drivers and partially offsetting factors as those for the three months ended June30, 2017 discussed above. Blizzard Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in Blizzard s net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to lower revenues from Overwatch, which was released in May2016. The decrease was partially offset by the prior-year negative impact of a reserve established in the second quarter of 2016 due to a value-added tax (VAT) audit, with no comparable reserve established for the three months ended June30, 2017. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The decrease in Blizzard s net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to lower revenues from Overwatch, partially offset by higher revenues from World of Warcraft. King Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 King s net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017, were comparable to net revenues for the three months ended June30, 2016. This was driven by slight declines in revenues across King s various franchises, partially offset by higher revenues from the Bubble Witch franchise due to the release of Bubble Witch 3 Saga at the beginning of 2017. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in King s net revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the current period including King revenues for the full year-to-date period, while the comparable prior period only included King revenues for the partial period following the King Closing Date. 39 Segment Income from Operations Activision Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 Activision s operating income for the three months ended June30, 2017, was comparable to the three months ended June30, 2016, despite the decrease in revenues discussed above. This was driven by: an increased percentage of revenues coming from higher-margin online digital channels; lower product development costs from the Skylanders franchise, as we do not have a new release title planned for 2017; and offset by, higher sales and marketing costs for the Destiny franchise given the expected Destiny 2 release in September 2017, with no comparable release in the prior year. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The decrease in Activision s operating income for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the lower revenues discussed above. The decrease was also due to higher sales and marketing costs for the Destiny franchise given the expected Destiny 2 release in September2017, with no comparable release in the prior year. The decrease was partially offset by: lower product development costs, driven by lower costs for the Skylanders franchise and lower accrued bonuses; and lower sales and marketing costs for the Skylanders franchise, as we do not have a new release title planned for 2017. Blizzard Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in Blizzard s operating income for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the lower revenues discussed above. This was partially offset by lower sales and marketing costs for Overwatch given its launch in May2016. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The decrease in Blizzard s operating income for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to higher product development costs resulting from lower capitalization of software development costs due to the timing of game development cycles. This was partially offset by lower sales and marketing costs for Overwatch given its launch in May2016. 40 King Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in King s operating income for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to slightly higher product development and sales and marketing costs, partially offset by lower professional services fees. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in King s operating income for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the current period including King s results of operations for the full year-to-date period, while the comparable prior period only included King s results of operations for the partial period following the King Closing Date. Foreign Exchange Impact Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $18 million and $33 million on reportable segment net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively, as compared to the impact on reportable segment net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2016. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and British pound. Consolidated Results Net Revenues by Distribution Channel The following table details our consolidated net revenues by distribution channel for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): The increase/(decrease) in deferred revenues recognized by distribution channel for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, was as follows (amounts in millions): (1)We define revenues from Digital online channels as revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, licensing royalties, value-added services, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products. (2)Net revenues from Other include revenues from our Studios and Distribution businesses, as well as revenues from MLG. 41 Digital Online Channel Net Revenues Net Revenues Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues from digital online channels for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: higher revenues recognized from Overwatch , which was released in May 2016; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2015. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues from digital online channels for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the same drivers as those for the three months ended June30, 2017 discussed above. The increase was also due to higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King s revenues for the full year-to-date period, while the comparable prior period only included King s revenues for the partial period following the King Closing Date. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The increase in net deferred revenues recognized from digital online channels for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to higher deferred revenues recognized from Overwatch. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in net deferred revenues recognized from digital online channels for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: net deferred revenues recognized from Overwatch in 2017, as compared to a net deferral of revenues in the comparable prior period, due to Overwatch s release in May 2016; higher deferred revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise (the weaker performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare digital content in the current period as compared to Call of Duty: Blacks Ops III in the prior period has resulted in less deferrals of revenues from digital content in 2017 as compared to 2016 and, as a result, higher deferred revenues recognized in the current period); and higher deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by deferred revenues recognized from World of Warcraft: Legion . 42 Retail Channel Net Revenues Net Revenues Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in net revenues from retail channels for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November2016, as compared tothe performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title. The decrease was partially offset by revenues from the release of the Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy in June2016, which had no comparable prior year release. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The decrease in net revenues from retail channels for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the same drivers and partially offsetting factors as those for the three months ended June30, 2017 discussed above. Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in net deferred revenues recognized from retail channels for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to lower deferred revenues recognized fromCall of Duty: Infinite Warfare, as compared toCall of Duty: Black Ops III. The decrease was partially offset by net deferred revenues recognized from Overwatch in 2017, as compared to a net deferral of revenues in the comparable prior period, due to Overwatch s release in May2016. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The decrease in net deferred revenues recognized from retail channels for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the same drivers and partially offsetting factors as those for the three months ended June30, 2017 discussed above. Net Revenues by Geographic Region The following table details our consolidated net revenues by geographic region for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): (1) EMEA consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africageographic regions. 43 Americas Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 Net revenues in the Americas region for the three months ended June30, 2017, were comparable to the three months ended June30, 2016. Net revenues were comparable as the lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November2016, as compared to the performance ofCall of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title, were partially offset by higher revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May2016. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues in the Americas region for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King s revenues for the full year-to-date period, while the comparable prior period only included King s revenues for the partial period following the King Closing Date; higher revenues recognized from Overwatch ; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2015. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, as compared to the performance ofCall of Duty: Black Ops III. EMEA Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues in the EMEA region for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: the prior-year negative impact of a reserve established in the second quarter of 2016 due to a value-added tax (VAT) audit, with no comparable reserve established for the three months ended June 30, 2017; and higher revenues recognized from Overwatch. The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, as compared to the performance ofCall of Duty: Black Ops III. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues in the EMEA region for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the same drivers and partially offsetting factors as those for Americas region discussed above for the six months ended June30, 2017. 44 Asia Pacific Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues in the Asia Pacific region for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to higher revenues recognized from Overwatch. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues in the Asia Pacific region for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to higher revenues recognized from Overwatch. Net Revenues by Platform The following tables detail our consolidated net revenues by platform for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): (1) Net revenues from Mobile and ancillary include revenues from mobile devices, as well as non-platform-specific game-related revenues, such as standalone sales of toys and accessories from our Skylanders franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories. (2) Net revenues from Other include revenues from our Studios and Distribution businesses, as well as revenues from MLG. Console Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in net revenues from the console platform for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Call of Duty franchise, primarily due to the performance of Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November2016, as compared tothe performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title. The decrease was partially offset by: higher revenues recognized from Overwatch , which was released in May 2016; and revenues from the release of the Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy in June 2017. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The decrease in net revenues from the console platform for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the same drivers and partially offsetting factors as those for the three months ended June30, 2017 discussed above. The decrease was also driven by lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise. 45 PC Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues from the PC platform for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: higher revenues recognized from Overwatch ; and higher revenues recognized from World of Warcraft , driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2015. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues from the PC platform for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the same drivers as those for the three months ended June30, 2017 discussed above. Mobile and Ancillary Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to higher revenues from the Bubble Witch franchise, driven by the release of Bubble Witch 3 Saga. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to higher revenues from King titles, driven by the Candy Crush franchise, as the current period includes King s revenues for the full year-to-date period, while the comparable prior period only included King s revenues for the partial period following the King Closing Date. 46 Costs and Expenses Cost of Revenues The following tables detail the components of cost of revenues in dollars and as a percentage of associated net revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (amounts in millions): Cost of Revenues Product Sales: Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in product costs for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: lower product costs associated with the Skylanders franchise, which tends to have relatively higher product costs given the hardware components; and a relative increase in revenues coming from digital online channels, which typically have relatively lower product costs. Software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales were comparable for the three months ended June30, 2017 and the three months ended June30, 2016. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The decrease in product costs for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to the decrease in product sales for the period. This was partially offset by increased product costs resulting from the increased revenues of our relatively lower-margin Distribution business. 47 The decrease in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: lower developer royalties and software amortization associated with the Destiny franchise, due to the timing of releases; and lower software amortization associated with Guitar Hero Live , which was released in October 2015, with no comparable release in 2016. The decrease was partially offset by software amortization from World of Warcraft: Legion, which was released in August2016, with no comparable release in 2015. Cost of Revenues Subscription, Licensing, and Other Revenues: Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 Game operations and distribution costs, and software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to subscription, licensing, and other revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017, were comparable to the three months ended June30, 2016. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in game operations and distribution costs for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to higher online costs and platform provider fees associated with revenues from King, as the current period includes King s costs for a full year-to-date period, while the comparable prior period only included King s revenues and associated costs for the partial period following the King Closing Date. The increase in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to subscription, licensing, and other revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to a full year-to-date period amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition, while the comparable prior period only included a partial period of amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets following the King Closing Date. Product Development (amounts in millions) Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 Product development costs for the three months ended June30, 2017, were comparable to the three months ended June30, 2016. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in product development costs for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: higher Blizzard product development costs to support current and future releases and lower capitalization of software development costs due to the timing of game development cycles; and increased costs related to King, as the current period includes a full year-to-date period of costs, while the comparable prior period only included King s costs for the partial period following the King Closing Date. The increase was partially offset by lower Activision product development costs, driven by lower accrued bonuses. 48 Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions) Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to lower sales and marketing costs for Overwatch given it launched in May2016. The decrease was partially offset by higher sales and marketing costs for the Destiny franchise given the expected Destiny 2 release in September2017, with no comparable release in the prior year. YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: increased amortization of the customer base intangible assets acquired in the King Acquisition and increased sales and marketing costs to support King s titles, as the current period includes a full year-to-date period of costs, while the comparable prior period only included King s costs for the partial period following the King Closing Date; and higher sales and marketing costs for the Destiny franchise given the expected Destiny 2 release in September 2017, with no comparable release in the prior year. The increase was partially offset by lower sales and marketing costs for Overwatch given it launched in May2016. General and Administrative (amounts in millions) Q2 2017 vs. Q2 2016 For the three months ended June30, 2017, general and administrative expenses were comparable to the three months ended June30, 2016. 49 YTD Q2 2017 vs. YTD Q2 2016 The increase in general and administrative expenses for the six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to: increased personnel costs to support the growth of our business and expanding areas of opportunity; and the inclusion in the current period of a non-cash accounting charge to reclassify certain losses included in our cumulative translation adjustments into earnings due to the substantial liquidation of certain of our foreign entities. The increase was partially offset by lower transaction costs, as the six months ended June30, 2016 included the King Acquisition. Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions) The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, as compared to the three and six months ended June30, 2016, was primarily due to our lower total outstanding debt and lower interest rates on our current debt instruments as a result of our refinancing activities in 2016 and 2017. The decreases were partially offset by write-offs of unamortized discount and deferred financing costs as a result of our debt refinancing and paydown activities. See further discussion below under Liquidity and Capital Resources. Income Tax Expense (amounts in millions) The income tax expense of $50 million for the three months ended June30, 2017, reflects an effective tax rate of 17%, which is higher than the effective tax rate of 10% for the three months ended June30, 2016.The increase is due to a decrease in excess tax benefits from share-based payments and an increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by a higher mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates. The income tax expense of $77 million for the six months ended June30, 2017, reflects an effective tax rate of 10%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 11% for the six months ended June30, 2016.The decrease is due to an increase in excess tax benefits from share-based payments and a higher mix of foreign earnings taxed at relatively lower statutory rates, partially offset by an increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate of 17% and 10% for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively, is lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, primarily due to foreign earnings taxed at lower statutory rates, the recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based payments, and the recognition of federal and California research and development credits, partially offset by an increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions. 50 Our effective tax rate differs from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates in foreign jurisdictions, and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in the mix of income by tax jurisdiction (as taxes are levied at relatively lower statutory rates in foreign regions and relatively higher statutory rates in the U.S.); research and development credits; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, rulings, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits, and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters;recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies from share-based payments; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change. Further information about our income taxes is provided in Note10 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q. Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths. In the near term, we expect our business to remain strong and to continue to generate significant operating cash flows. Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as our anticipated dividend payments, share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities. With our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.3 billion at June30, 2017, and the expected cash flows provided by our operating activities, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet daily operations for the foreseeable future. We also believe that we have sufficient working capital ($2.6 billion at June30, 2017) to finance our operational and financing requirements for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, we have the availability of a $250million revolving credit facility. As of June30, 2017, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $2.1 billion, as compared to $1.9 billion as of December31, 2016. If the cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. are needed in the future for our operations in the U.S., we would accrue and pay the required U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. Furthermore, our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the fourth quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. On a continuing basis, we consider various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our business results, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, share repurchases, and other structural changes. These transactions may result in future cash proceeds or payments. Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions) 51 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with our operating activities include the collection of customer receivables generated from the sale of our products and services. These collections are typically partially offset by: payments to vendors for the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of our products; payments for customer service support for our consumers; payments to third-party developers and intellectual property holders; payments for interest on our debt; payments for software development; payments for tax liabilities; and payments to our workforce. Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $676 million, as compared to $840 million for the six months ended June30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to the timing of the launches of our games, as the prior period included cash flows from the launch of Overwatch in May2016, with no comparable launch in the current period. The decrease was partially offset by: higher net income for the six months ended June 30, 2017, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016, along with larger adjustments to net income for non-cash charges, which were primarily associated with the amortization of the acquired intangibles in the King Acquisition; and changes in our working capital due to the timing of collections and payments. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $41 million, as compared to $1.1 billion for the six months ended June30, 2016.The decrease in the cash used was primarily due to cash used for the King Acquisition in the six months ended June30, 2016, with no comparable transaction in the current period. Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt and transactions involving our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock to employees upon the exercise of stock options, as well as the payment of dividends. Net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $652 million, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $746 million for the six months ended June30, 2016. The change was primarily attributed to our debt financing activities. For the six months ended June30, 2017, we had net debt repayments of $500 million, as compared to approximately $950 million of net debt proceeds for the six months ended June30, 2016. The cash flows used in financing activities for the six months ended June30, 2017 were partially offset by higher proceeds from stock option exercises of $130 million, as compared to $60 million for the six months ended June30, 2016. 52 Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $50 million and a negative impact of $25 million on our cash and cash equivalents for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The change was primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound and the Euro. Debt As of December31, 2016, our total outstanding debt was $4.9 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 2.92%. On February3, 2017, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment ) to our credit agreement, which was originally executed on October11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the Credit Agreement ). The Sixth Amendment: (i)provided for a new tranche of term loans A in an aggregate principal amount of $2.55billion (the 2017 TLA ) and (ii)released each of our subsidiary guarantors from their respective guarantees provided under the Credit Agreement. All proceeds of the 2017 TLA, together with additional cash on hand of $139 million, were used to fully retire the term loans then outstanding (the 2016 TLA ) under the Credit Agreement, including all accrued and unpaid interest thereon. The terms of the 2017 TLA, other than the absence of the subsidiary guarantees, are generally the same as the terms of the 2016 TLA. The fees incurred as a result of the Sixth Amendment were not material. The 2017 TLA will mature on August23, 2021. On May26, 2017, in a public underwritten offering, we issued three series of unsecured senior notes $400 million of 2.6% unsecured senior notes due June2022, $400 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due June2027, and $400 million of 4.5% unsecured senior notes due June2047. The proceeds from these unsecured senior notes, together with cash on hand, were used to make a prepayment of $1.2 billion on our 2017 TLA. During the six months ended June30, 2017, we reduced our total outstanding long-term debt by $500 million. This included $139 million of cash used to retire the 2016 TLA, as discussed above, along with a prepayment on the 2017 TLA of $361 million. The prepayment made on our 2017 TLA satisfied the remaining required quarterly principal repayments for the entire term of the Credit Agreement. As a result of the above activities, our total outstanding debt as of June30, 2017 was $4.4 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 3.52%. A summary of our debt as of June30, 2017, is as follows (amounts in millions): 53 A summary of our debt as of December31, 2016, was as follows (amounts in millions): Refer to Note7 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for further disclosures regarding our debt obligations. Dividends On February2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.30 per common share. On May10, 2017, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $226 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March30, 2017. On May26, 2017, we made related dividend equivalent payments of less than $1 million to certain holders of restricted stock units. Capital Expenditures For the year ending December31, 2017, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $135 million, primarily for leasehold improvements, computer hardware, and software purchases.During the six months ended June30, 2017, capital expenditures were $52 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, Activision Blizzard had no significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that they are made. These estimates, judgments, and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments, or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions, and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following: Revenue Recognition including Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables; Allowances for Returns and Price Protection; Allowance for Inventory Obsolescence; Software Development Costs; Income Taxes; Fair Value Estimates (including Business Combinations and Assessment of Impairment of Assets); and Share-Based Payments. During the six months ended June30, 2017, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates. Refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in PartII,Item7 of our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates. 54 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Below are recently issued accounting pronouncements that were most significant to our accounting policy activities. For a detailed discussion of all relevant recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note15 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Inventory In July2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued new guidance related to the measurement of inventory which requires inventory within the scope of the guidance to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. We adopted this new standard as of January1, 2017, and applied it prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted Revenue Recognition In May2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. The new standard will replace all current U.S.GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December15, 2017. We anticipate adopting the accounting standard on January1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, which recognizes the cumulative effect upon adoption as an adjustment to retained earnings at the adoption date. As previously disclosed, we believe the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard may have a significant impact on the accounting for our sales of our games with significant online functionality for which we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) for unspecified future updates and ongoing online services provided. Under the current accounting standards, VSOE for undelivered elements is required. This requirement will be eliminated under the new standard. Accordingly, we will be required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of the software, as compared to the current requirement of recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated offering period. We expect this difference to primarily impact revenues from our Call of Duty franchise. Many of our other franchises, such as Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush, are hosted service arrangements and we do not expect any significant impact on the accounting for our sales of these games. Nonetheless, this difference may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption of the new guidance. We are continuing to evaluate the additional impacts of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements and related disclosures. 55 Leases In February2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases. The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic. The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and lessees will need to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for their leases. The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments. The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received, and any prepaid lease payments. Operating leases will result in a straight-line expense pattern, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented. We are evaluating the impact of this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. Currently, we do not plan to early adopt this new standard. Statement of Cash Flows-Restricted Cash In November2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. The new standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain any change during the period in total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Therefore, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018, and should be applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of adopting this new accounting guidance on our financial statements. We expect there would be a significant impact to the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6billion movement in restricted cash resulting from the transfer of cash into escrow at December31, 2015 to facilitate the King Acquisition and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 in connection with the King Acquisition. Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance would be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, would not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows.