Item1. Financial Statements Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share and per share data) (1) The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date. See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands, except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Organization and Nature of Operations. Adesto Technologies Corporation (together with its subsidiaries; "Adesto", "we", "our", "us" or the "Company") was incorporated in the state of California in January 2006 and reincorporated in Delaware in October 2015. We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory ("NVM") products. Our corporate headquarters are located in Sunnyvale, California. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation and our financial results include the operating results of those assets from the date of acquisition. The Company completed its initial public offering ("IPO") of common stock on October 30, 2015. The Company sold 5,192,184 shares, including 192,184 shares for the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares. The shares were sold at an initial public offering price of $5.00 per share for net proceeds of $22.1 million to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to complete annual financial statements. In the opinion of our management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company and its results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented have been included. Operating results for the three months ended March31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December31, 2016, for any other interim period or for any other future year. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date, but does not include all of the disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the SEC on March 30, 2016. The consolidated financial statements include the results of our operations, and the operations of our wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies described in Note 1, Organization and Summary ofSignificant Accounting Policies , in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year endedDecember31, 2015 that have had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes, except as described below. Reverse Stock Split. On October 1, 2015, we effected a 1-for-33 reverse stock split of our common stock and convertible preferred stock (collectively, "Capital Stock"). On the effective date of the reverse stock split, (i) each 33 shares of outstanding Capital Stock were reduced to one share of Capital Stock; (ii) the number of shares of Capital Stock into which each outstanding warrant or option to purchase Capital Stock is exercisable were proportionately reduced on a 33-to-1 basis; (iii) the exercise price of each outstanding warrant or option to purchase Capital Stock were proportionately increased on a 1-to-33 basis; and (iv) each 33 shares of authorized Capital Stock were reduced to one share of Capital Stock. All of the share numbers, share prices, and exercise prices have been adjusted, on a retroactive basis, to reflect this 1-for-33 reverse stock split. The par value of the common stock and convertible preferred stock were not adjusted as a result of the reverse stock split. Use of Estimates. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosures of 7 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate those estimates, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts, reserves for sales, warranty accrual, inventory write-downs, valuation of lo ng-lived assets, including property and equipment and identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, loss on purchase commitments, valuation of deferred taxes and contingencies. In addition, we use assumptions when employing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of stock options granted. We base our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, when these carrying values are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable Allowances. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the selling price is fixed or determinable, transfer of title occurs, and the collectibility of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Due to the historical immaterial level of product returns under warranty, we do not record a reserve for estimated returns under warranty at the time of revenue recognition. Generally, we meet product sale revenue recognition conditions upon shipment because, in most cases, title and risk of loss passes to the customer at that time. In addition, we estimate and record provisions for future returns and other charges against revenue at the time of shipment, consistent with the terms of sale. We sell products to distributors at the price listed in our distributor price book. At the time of sale, we record a sales reserve for ship from stock and debits ("SSDs"), stock rotation rights and any special programs approved by management. We offset the sales reserve against recorded revenues, producing the revenue amount reported in our consolidated statements of operations. The market price for our products can differ significantly from the book price at which we sold the product to the distributor. When the market price of a particular distributor's sales opportunity to their customers would result in low or negative margins for the distributor, as compared to our original book price, we negotiate SSDs with the distributor. Management analyzes our SSD history to develop current SSD rates that form the basis of the SSD revenue reserve recorded each period. We obtain the historical SSD rates from the distributor's records and our internal records. We typically grant payment terms of between 30 and 60 days to our customers. Our customers generally pay within those terms. Distributors are invoiced for shipments at listed book price. When the distributors pay the invoice, they may claim debits for SSDs previously authorized by us when appropriate. Once claimed, we process the requests against prior authorizations and adjust reserves previously established for that customer. The revenue we record for sales to our distributors is net of estimated provisions for these programs. Determining net revenue requires significant judgments and estimates on our part. We base our estimates on historical experience rates, the levels of inventory held by our distributors, current trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there is a risk actual amounts may differ materially from our estimates. Our consolidated financial condition and operating results depend on our ability to make reliable estimates. We believe that such estimates are reasonable. We also monitor collectibility of accounts receivable primarily through review of our accounts receivable aging. When facts and circumstances indicate the collection of specific amounts or from specific customers is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts. Shipping Costs. We charge shipping costs to cost of revenue as incurred. Product Warranty. Our products are sold with a limited warranty for a period of one year, warranting that the product conforms to specifications and is free from material defects in design, materials and workmanship. To date, we have had insignificant returns of any defective production parts. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded $250,000 for a specific potential warranty claim. As of March 31, 2016, approximately $41,000 has been incurred relating to this potential warranty claim. 8 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Income Taxes. We account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach, which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the consolidated financial statements, but have not been reflected in our taxable income. Valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets as necessary when in management's estimate, based on available objective evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not generate sufficient taxable income in future periods to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We recognize in our consolidated financial statements the impact of a tax position that based on its technical merits is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. Foreign Currency Translation. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency. In consolidation, we translate assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date. We translate revenue and expense accounts at the average exchange rates during the period in which the transaction takes place. Net gains or losses from foreign currency translation of assets and liabilities were a loss of $13,000 and a loss of $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and are included in the cumulative translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, a component of stockholders' equity. Net gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency were a $22,000 gain and a $0.1 million loss for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and are included in other income (expense), net. Cash and Cash Equivalents. We consider all highly liquid investments with an initial maturity of 90 days or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. We maintain such funds in overnight cash deposits. Property and Equipment. Property and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets or the term of the related lease, whichever is shorter. Estimates of useful lives are as follows: Inventories. We record inventories at the lower of standard cost (which generally approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or market value. On a quarterly basis, we analyze inventories on a part-by-part basis. The carrying value of inventory is adjusted for excess and obsolete inventory based on inventory age, shipment history and the forecast of demand over a specific future period. At the point of loss recognition, a new lower cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that new cost basis. The semiconductor markets that we serve are volatile and actual results may vary from forecast or other assumptions, potentially affecting our assessment of excess and obsolete inventory which could have a material effect on our results of operations. Long-Lived Assets. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We recognize an impairment loss when the net book value of such assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the asset. If impairment is indicated, we write the asset down to its estimated fair value. For all periods presented, we have not recognized any impairment losses on our long-lived assets. 9 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Purchased Intangible Assets. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Purchased intangible assets with definite lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets as follows: Goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed. We evaluate our goodwill, at a minimum, on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 1 of each year. We last conducted our annual goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2015 and no goodwill impairment was indicated. When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may initially perform a qualitative assessment which includes a review and analysis of certain quantitative factors to estimate if a reporting unit's fair value significantly exceeds its carrying value. When the estimate of a reporting unit's fair value appears more likely than not to be less than its carrying value based on this qualitative assessment, we continue to the first step of two steps impairment test. The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined based on a weighting of income and market approaches. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings for comparable companies. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, and future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base these fair value estimates on reasonable assumptions that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. A potential impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is lower than its net book value. The second step of the process is only performed if a potential impairment exists, and it involves determining the difference between the fair values of the reporting unit's net assets, other than goodwill, and the fair value of the reporting unit, and, if the difference is less than the net book value of goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded. In the event that we determine that the value of goodwill has become impaired, we record a charge for the amount of impairment during the fiscal quarter in which the determination is made. We operate in one reporting unit. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenditures are expensed as incurred. Stock-based Compensation. We account for stock-based compensation using the fair value method. We determine fair value for stock options awarded to employees at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to make various assumptions, including the fair value of the underlying common stock, expected future share price volatility and expected term. We determine the fair value of stock options awarded to non-employees at each vesting date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, and re-measure fair value at each reporting period until the services required under the arrangement are completed. Fair value is recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and only recognize expense for those stock-based awards expected to vest. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience of our stock-based awards that are granted, exercised and cancelled. If the actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate, stock-based compensation expense in future periods could be significantly different from what was recorded in the current period. 10 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Concentration of Risk. Our products are primarily manufactured, assembled and tested by third-party foundries and other contractors in Asia and we are heavily dependent on a single foundry in Taiwan for the manufacture of wafers and a single contractor in the Philippines for assembly and testing of our products. We do not have long-term agreements with either of these suppliers. A significant disruption in the operations of these parties would adversely impact the production of our products for a substantial period of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables. We place substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents on deposit with a reputable, high credit quality financial institution in the United States of America. We believe that the bank that holds substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents is financially sound and, accordingly, subject to minimal credit risk. Deposits held with the bank may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. We generally do not require collateral or other security in support of accounts receivable. We periodically review the need for an allowance for doubtful accounts by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, the age of the accounts receivable balances and current economic conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay. As a result of our favorable collection experience and customer concentration, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Customer concentrations as a percentage of total revenue were as follows: * less than 10% Customer concentrations as a percentage of gross accounts receivable were as follows: * less than 10% Net Loss per Share. Basic net loss per share is calculated by dividing the net loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, without consideration for potentially dilutive securities. Diluted net loss per share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted average number of common shares and potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding for the period determined using the treasury-stock and if-converted methods. For purposes of the diluted net loss per share calculation, common stock options, restricted stock units, and warrants are considered to be potentially dilutive securities. Loss Contingencies. We are or have been subject to claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate contingent liabilities, including threatened or pending litigation, for potential losses. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceedings is considered probable and the amount can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based upon the best information available. For potential losses for which there is a reasonable possibility (meaning the likelihood is more than remote but less than probable) that a loss exists, we will disclose an estimate of the potential loss or range of such potential loss or include a statement that an estimate of the potential loss cannot be made. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates, which could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 11 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Recent Accounting Pronouncements. In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties About an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The amendments require management to perform interim and annual assessments of an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and provide guidance on determining when and how to disclose going concern uncertainties in the financial statements. ASU 2014-15 applies to all entities and is effective for annual and interim reporting periods ending after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs", which simplifies the presentation of debt issuance costs. ASU 2015-03 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015 and interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We adopted this guidance on our consolidated financial statements with no effect in the first three months of 2016. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, amending Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC 740"). Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 740 and aims to simplify the accounting for income taxes. Currently, U.S. GAAP requires an entity to separate deferred income tax assets and liabilities into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. This amendment requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter 2017 for Adesto. We early adopted this ASU at the beginning of our fourth quarter of 2015 and applied it prospectively. No prior periods were retrospectively adjusted. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, amending ASC 330. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 330 and aims to simplify the subsequent measurement of inventory. Currently, inventory can be measured at the lower of cost or market, which could result in several potential outcomes, as market could be replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less an approximately normal profit margin. The major amendments would be as follows: 1. Inventory should be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. 2. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. 3. The amendment does not apply to inventory measured under LIFO or the retail inventory method. 4. The amendment does apply to all other inventory, which includes inventory measured via FIFO or average cost. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those fiscal years), or the first quarter of 2017, and do not expect it to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, creating ASC Topic 606. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 605 and aims to simplify the number of requirements to follow for revenue recognition and make revenue recognition more comparable across various entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. There are 5 core principles: 1. Identify the contract(s) with a customer. 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract. 3. Determine the transaction price. 4. Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract. 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. Additional considerations under this update include: accounting for costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lease assets and lease liabilities arising from leases, including operating leases, to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU 2016-02 will become effective for us on January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 12 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2. Balance Sheet Components. Accounts Receivable, Net. Accounts receivable, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Inventories. Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 we realized benefits of $0.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively, from the sales of previously reserved products. Other current assets. Other current assets consisted of the following (in thousands): Property and Equipment, Net. Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was $0.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively. 13 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities. Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): Note 3. Fair Value Measurements. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. We measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value at each reporting period using a fair value hierarchy which requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Three levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 . Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs other than quoted prices which are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instruments. Level 3. Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity and which are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had no financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Note 4. Purchased Intangible Assets. In 2012, in connection with our purchase of the serial flash memory product line assets from Atmel Corporation, we recorded $16.4 million of intangible assets. 14 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Intangible assets were as follows (in thousands): We recorded amortization expense related to the acquisition-related intangible assets as follows (in thousands): The estimated future amortization expense of acquisition-related intangible assets subject to amortization after March 31, 2016 is as follows (in thousands): Note 5. Borrowings. Bridge Bank Loan. In October 2013, we entered into the Business Financing Agreement (the "BFA") with Bridge Bank N.A. The BFA consisted of both a revolving credit facility under which we were permitted to borrow up to 80% of eligible accounts receivable but not to exceed $7.5 million and a term loan in the amount of $9.0 million. Interest on the revolving credit facility accrued at the bank's prime rate, which under the BFA could not have been less than 3.25%, plus 1.25% while interest on the term loan accrues at the bank's prime rate plus 3%. Under the term loan, we were required to make interest only payments through April 2014 and principal payments of $300,000 monthly thereafter plus interest. Borrowings under the BFA were secured by all of our assets and were subject to certain financial covenants, including maintaining minimum levels of EBITDA on a quarterly basis and a certain minimum asset coverage ratio based on the ratio of unrestricted cash plus certain accounts receivable to total outstanding under the agreement. 15 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements I n October 2014, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants. As a result, in October 2014, we entered into the First Business Financing Modification Agreement (the "BFA Modification") under which the covenant defaults were waived. The BFA Mo dification (i) increased the interest rate charged on the term loan from the bank's prime rate plus 3% to the bank's prime rate plus 4% and would have declined to the bank's prime rate plus 3% upon the raising of additional equity of not less than $2.5 mil lion, (ii) required us to continue to maintain certain minimum levels of EBITDA and asset coverage ratios, (iii) required us to maintain unrestricted cash of not less than $4.25 million until that point at which we either receive additional equity of not l ess than $5.0 million or maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 (based on the ratio of EBITDA to current portion of total amounts outstanding under the BFA Modification plus period-to-date interest expense payments) for two co nsecutive quarters. In addition, under the BFA the bank was paid a facility fee of $82,500 at closing. Under the BFA Modification, the bank was paid an additional facility fee of $50,000 and received a warrant to purchase 1,488 shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock. The facility fees and the value of the warrant, $0.1 million, were recorded as a debt discount and have been amortized over the life of the agreement. Amortization of debt discount was $0.1 million in 2015. Borrowings of $10.9 million under this facility were repaid in full in April 2015. Opus Bank Term Loan. In April 2015, we entered into a three-year $15.0 million credit agreement, or the new term loan facility, which replaced our prior senior secured revolving credit and term loan facility. The agreement provides for a senior secured term loan facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes including working capital, to repay certain indebtedness and for capital expenditures and other expenses. Interest will accrue on any outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to (a) the higher of (i) the prime rate (as publicly announced from time to time by the Wall Street Journal) and (ii) 3.25% plus (b) (i) 1.00% if our cash equivalents are greater than 125% of the outstanding principal of our borrowings under the new term loan facility, or (ii) 2.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are less than or equal to 125% of such borrowings. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets and contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain a monthly asset coverage ratio after September 30, 2015 of not less than 1.10 to 1.00, and quarterly adjusted EBITDA (measured on a trailing three-month basis) of $1 through March 31, 2016 and increasing to higher levels thereafter. Under the agreement, the quarterly EBITDA covenant is not applicable if the asset coverage ratio is met at all times during any particular quarter. The agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets, merge or consolidate and make acquisitions. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of five percent above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions and had borrowings of $12.5 million outstanding. We may not draw additional funds under the new term loan facility and our borrowings mature on April 30, 2018. In connection with the new term loan facility, Opus Bank received a warrant to purchase 31,897 shares of Series E convertible preferred stock. Upon the completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015 the preferred stock warrants were converted into 315,282 of our common stock warrants. In addition, we paid financing costs of $0.1 million. The financing costs and the value of the warrant, $0.9 million, were recorded as a debt discount and are being amortized over the life of the agreement. Amortization of debt discount was $0.1 million for the three months ended in March 31, 2016. As of March 31, 2016, the remaining unamortized debt discount was $0.5 million. Outstanding borrowings consisted of the following (in thousands): 16 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Future repayments on outstanding borrowings (excluding unamortized discount of $0.5 million as of March31, 2016) are as follows (in thousands): Interest expense incurred under our borrowings was $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, respectively. Note 6. Segment Information. We operate in one business segment, application-specific and feature-rich, ultra-low power NVM products. Our chief decision-maker, the President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates our performance based on company-wide consolidated results. Revenue is evaluated based on product category and by geographic region. Product revenue from customers is designated based on the geographic region to which the product is delivered. Revenue by geographic region was as follows (in thousands): Long-lived assets are attributed to the geographic region were they are located. Long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows (in thousands): Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies. Operating Leases. On November 2, 2015, the Company extended the lease for its headquarters by six months to July 2016 by entering into that certain Amendment to Commercial Sublease, dated November 2, 2015, between the Company and eGain Corporation. The Amendment provides for a base rent during the extension period of $47,087 per month. Additionally, on November 2, 2015, the Company entered into a lease with Peterson Ridge LLC pursuant to which the Company has leased a new headquarters facility, consisting of an aggregate of approximately 34,000 square feet of space in Santa Clara, California. The initial term of the lease commenced on November 2, 2015 and is scheduled to end on July 31, 2023 and may be extended, at the Company's option, for an additional five-year period following the initial lease term. 17 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Pursuant to the lease, monthly base rental paymen ts due under the lease are expected to be approximately $93,000 per month between August1, 2016 and February27, 2017, with annual increases of approximately 3% thereafter. The Company must also pay for certain other operating costs under the lease, inclu ding operating expenses, taxes, assessments, insurance, utilities, securities and property management fees. Peterson Ridge LLC is obligated to reimburse the Company for up to $2,521,051 of the Company's out-of-pocket costs associated with any tenant improv ements, as defined in the lease. Rent expense under operating leases for three months ended March 31, 2016 was $0.5 million. Capital Leases. We have entered into various lease agreements for equipment and software under capital leases with terms of between 24 to 48 months. The equipment and software under the leases are collateral for the lease obligations and are included within property and equipment, net, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Future minimum commitments for capital leases as of March 31, 2016 are as follows (in thousands): Obligations under capital leases are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Equipment acquired under capital leases is included in property and equipment, net and consisted of the following (in thousands): Purchase Commitments. As of March 31, 2016 we had purchase commitments due within one year with our third-party foundries of $3.6 million and $3.0 million in conjunction with an agreement with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. Litigation. Although we are not currently subject to any litigation, and no litigation is currently threatened against us, we may be subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation, including intellectual property litigation, arising in the ordinary course of business. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes and are not predictable with assurance. We accrue amounts that we believe are adequate to address any liabilities related to legal proceedings and other loss contingencies that we believe will result in a probable loss that is reasonably estimable 18 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Indemnification. During the normal course of business, we may make certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees which may include intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the sales of our products and indemnities for liabilities associated with the infringement of other parties' technology based upon our products. Our exposure under these indemnification provisions is generally limited to the total amount paid by a customer under the agreement. However, certain agreements include indemnification provisions that could potentially expose us to losses in excess of the amount received under the agreement. In addition, we indemnify our officers, directors and certain key employees while they are serving in good faith in such capacities. We have not recorded any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Where necessary, we accrue for losses for any known contingent liabilities, including those that may arise from indemnification provisions, when future payment is probable. Note 8. Common Stock, Common Stock Warrants and Stock Option Plan. Common Stock. We were authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock with $0.0001 par value per share as of December 31, 2015 and 6,666,666 shares of common stock with no par value per share as of December 31, 2014. Each holder of common stock is entitled to one vote per share. The holders of common stock are also entitled to receive dividends, when and if declared by our Board of Directors. Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had reserved shares of common stock for future issuances as follows: Upon completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015 all outstanding shares of our preferred stock were converted into 9,114,739 shares of common stock. Common Stock Warrants. The following common stock warrants were outstanding as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and were the result of a conversion of preferred stock warrants upon the completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015. Common stock warrants are exercisable at the option of the holder any time after the date of issuance into shares of our common stock. The aggregate amount of shares of common stock that would be issued is determined by dividing the exercisable price by the conversion price applicable on the date of conversion multiplied by the number of warrants exercised. 19 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Employee Benefit Plans 2007 Equity Incentive Plan. In 2007, our Board of Directors and shareholders approved the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan") under which 272,727 shares of common stock were reserved and available for the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to eligible participants. The 2007 Plan was subsequently amended to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan to 787,878 and during the year ended December 31, 2015, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan was increased to 2,651,515. Options and restricted stock awards were granted at a price per share not less than the 85% of the fair value at the date of grant or award, respectively. Restricted stock awarded to persons controlling more than 10% of our stock were granted at a price per share not less than the 100% of the fair value at the date of the award. Options that were granted to new employees generally vest over a four-year period with 25% vesting at the end of one year and the remaining to vest monthly thereafter, while options that were granted to existing employees generally vest over a four-year period. Options granted generally are exercisable up to 10 years from the date of grant. As of October 26, 2015, no shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan and all outstanding options continue to be governed and remain outstanding in accordance with their existing terms under the 2007 Plan. In addition, any shares subject to outstanding awards under the 2007 Plan that are issuable upon the exercise of options that expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full will be available for future grant and issuance under the 2015 Plan (as defined below). 2015 Equity Incentive Plan In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan. The 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became effective on the date immediately prior to the date of our initial public offering. As a result, 1,813,272 shares of common stock previously reserved but unissued under the 2007 Plan on the effective date of the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, and we ceased granting awards under our 2007 Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January of each of 2016 through 2025 by the number of shares equal to 4% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31. However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan authorizes the award of stock options, restricted stock awards, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units ("RSU's"), performance awards and stock bonuses. No person will be eligible to receive more than 2,000,000 shares in any calendar year under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan other than a new employee of ours, who will be eligible to receive no more than 4,000,000 shares under the plan in the calendar year in which the employee commences employment. The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that may be subject to awards granted to any single non-employee director pursuant to the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan in any calendar year shall not exceed 300,000. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan provides that no more than 25,000,000 shares will be issued as incentive stock options. 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan became effective on the date of our initial public offering. We reserved 150,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January following the first offering date by the number of shares equal to 1% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31 (rounded to the nearest whole share). However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. The aggregate number of shares issued over the term of our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will not exceed 2,250,000 shares of our common stock. Under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees will be able to acquire shares of our common stock by accumulating funds through payroll deductions. Eligible employees will be able to select a rate of payroll deduction up to 15% of their base cash compensation. The purchase price for shares of our common stock purchased under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of our common stock on (i) the first trading day of the applicable offering period and (ii) the last trading day of each purchase period in the applicable offering period. Except for the first offering period, each offering period will run for no more than six months, with purchases occurring every six months. The first offering period began upon the effective date of our IPO and will end on June 30, 2016. No participant will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock in an amount that has a fair market value greater than $25,000, determined as of the first day of the applicable purchase period, for each calendar year in which that right is outstanding. In 20 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements addition, no participant will be permitted to purchase m ore than 2,500 shares during any one purchase period or a lesser amount as determined by our compensation committee. Our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will continue until the earlier to occur of its termination by our Board of Directors, the issuance of all shares reserved for issuance under it or the tenth anniversary of its effective date. A summary of stock option and restricted stock units activity under the 2007 Plan and the 2015 Plan is as follows: Note 9. Stock-based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation based on fair value as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. We recognize such costs as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the employee's requisite service period, which is generally four years. Our valuation assumptions are as follows: 21 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Fair value of common stock. Prior to our IPO in October 2015, we estimated the fair value of our common stock using various valuation methodologies, including valuation analyses performed by third-party valuation firms. After the initial public offering, we used the publicly quoted price as the fair value of our common stock. Risk-free interest rate. We base the risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent expected term of the options for each option group. Expected term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumption is based on the simplified method in which the expected term is equal to the average of the stock-based award's weighted-average vesting period and its contractual term. We expect to continue using the simplified method until sufficient information about historical behavior is available. Volatility. We determine volatility based on the historical stock volatilities of a group of publicly listed guideline companies over a period equal to the expected terms of the options, as we do not have sufficient trading history to determine the volatility of our common stock. Dividend yield. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend and do not currently plan to pay a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we used an expected dividend yield of zero. The following table summarizes the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine fair value of stock options: We did not make any new grants of stock options during the first three months of 2016 and 2015. The following table presents the effects of stock-based compensation for stock options, RSU's and ESPP shares during the periods (in thousands): Stock-based compensation expense capitalized to inventories was not material during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We did not realize any income tax benefit from stock option exercises in either of the periods presented due to recurring losses and valuation allowances. As of March 31, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, net of estimated forfeitures, was approximately $0.5 million, and this amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2 years. As of March 31, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to RSU's and ESPP was $4.4 million and $62,000, respectively, and there amounts are expected to be recognized over 1.6 years and 0.3 years, respectively. Note 10. Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax provision of $14,000 and $49,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, respectively. The income tax provision is comprised of estimates of current taxes due in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision reflects tax expense associated with state income tax, foreign taxes, uncertain tax positions and tax expense 22 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements related to the recording of a deferred tax liability that results from the amortization for income tax purposes of acquisition-related goodwill. The decrease in the tax provision between 2016 and 2015 is primarily due to a decrease in French subsidiary taxes. As of March 31, 2016, our deferred tax assets are fully offset by a valuation allowance except in those jurisdictions where it is determined that a valuation allowance is not required. Accounting for income taxes (ASC 740), Income Taxes, provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. Based on the weight of available evidence, which includes historical operating performance, reported cumulative net losses since inception and difficulty in accurately forecasting our future results, we provided a full valuation allowance against our net U.S. deferred tax assets. We reassess the need for our valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. If it is later determined that a portion or all of the valuation allowance is not required, it generally will be a benefit to the income tax provision in the period that such determination is made. We evaluate tax positions for recognition using a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, and those tax positions eligible for recognition are measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon the effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for our income tax uncertainties in all open tax years. The Company does not anticipate a material change in the total amount or composition of its unrecognized tax benefits within the 12 months of March 31, 2016. We file tax returns in the United States for federal, California, and other states. All tax years remain open to examination for both federal and state purposes as a result of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards. We file foreign tax returns in the United Kingdom, France, China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. These tax years remain open to examination, except for 2011 and prior years in France. Note 11. Net Loss Per Share. The following outstanding common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders for the periods presented because including them would have been antidilutive: Note 12. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net consisted of the following (in thousands): Note 13. Subsequent Events. None. 23 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or to our future financial or operating performance. You can generally identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "could," "intend," "target," "projects," "contemplates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. We have based these forward-looking statements primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully. The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations and should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes to audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. In this Quarterly Report, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, "Adesto," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Adesto Technologies Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory, or NVM, products. We optimize our NVM products for Internet of Things, or IoT, applications including current and next-generation Internet-connected devices in the consumer, industrial, medical and wearables markets. We combine our NVM design capabilities with proprietary intellectual property and differentiated technology platforms to deliver high-performance products that dramatically reduce the overall energy consumption of our customers' systems and extend battery life. Our products feature embedded intelligence in a small form factor and high reliability. Our revenue is derived from the sale of our NVM products, primarily our standard serial flash memory products, which represented substantially all of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, or Atmel. The products we acquired as part of the acquisition were approaching the end of their life cycle and experiencing annual revenue declines. While we provide support for these products, we have not invested further in their research and development. Revenue from these legacy products have declined to $0.3 million from $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect that revenue from these products will continue to decline in the future. Since the acquisition, we have invested in developing new products that are better suited for low-power, high-growth applications, accelerated development of select products and introduced new products based on the acquired technology. In 2013, we introduced the first of our next-generation DataFlash and Fusion Flash products, which have similar functionality to our legacy products, but also offer enhanced features such as ultra-deep power down and wide supply voltage range operation. Revenue from our next-generation NVM products were $9.9 million and $8.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We had been exclusively developing products based on Conductive Bridging RAM, or CBRAM, technology prior to the acquisition of assets from Atmel. In 2015 we introduced Mavriq and Moneta, two CBRAM-based families of memory products, and shipped more than 5.0 million units of these products. We continue to develop and enhance our families of CBRAM-based products, although revenue associated with these products has not been material to date. We have made and continue to make these upfront investments because we believe that the introduction of any fundamentally new semiconductor technology must necessarily go through a lengthy customer evaluation process and several cycles of improvement in the field before it can be widely adopted or generate material revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, our products were sold to approximately 400 end customers. In general, we work directly with our customers to have our NVM devices designed into and qualified for their products. Although we maintain direct sales, support and development relationships with our customers, once our products are designed into a customer's product, we sell a majority of our products to those customers through distributors. We generated 72% and 66% of our revenue from distributors during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Sales to three distributors generated approximately 41% and 28% of 24 our revenue during the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Additiona lly, we derived approximately 83% and 78% of our revenue internationally during the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, the majority of which was recognized in the Asia Pacific, or APAC, region. Revenue by geography is recognized base d on the region to which our products are sold, and not to where the end products are shipped. Our headquarters are located in Sunnyvale, California, with additional sales operations in North America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and APAC r egions. We recorded revenue of $10.2 million and $9.7million, and net losses of $1.5million and $2.3 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Factors Affecting Our Performance Product adoption in new markets and applications. We optimize our products to meet the technical requirements of the emerging IoT market. The growth in the IoT market is dependent on many factors, most of which are outside of our control. Should the IoT market not develop or develop more slowly, our financial results could be adversely affected. Ability to attract and retain customers that make large orders. In 2015, our products were sold to approximately 500 end customers, of which approximately 20 generated more than half our revenue. One end customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in 2015. While we expect the composition of our customers to change over time, our business and operating results will depend on our ability to continually target new and retain existing customers that make large orders, particularly those in growth markets which are less dependent on macroeconomic conditions. Design wins with new and existing customers. We believe our solutions significantly improve the performance and potentially lower the system cost of our customers' designs, particularly if we are part of the early design phase. Accordingly, we work closely with our customers and targeted prospects to understand their product roadmaps and strategies. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success. We define a design win as the successful completion of the evaluation stage, where a customer has tested our product, verified that our product meets its requirements, qualified our NVM device for their products and placed an order for the purchase of our products. The number of our design wins has grown from 32 in 2013 to 65 in 2014 and to 135 in 2015, including 6, 63, and 125 design wins for new products, respectively. We had 29 new design wins during the first three months of 2016. The revenue that we generate, if any, from each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers, internal estimates of customer demand factoring in expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential and internal estimates of overall demand based on historical trends. Pricing, product cost and gross margins of our products. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. In general, newly introduced products and products with higher performance and more features tend to be priced higher than older, more mature products. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline as products mature. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect that the average selling prices of our products will decline as they mature. In the normal course of business, we will seek to offset the effect of declining average selling prices on existing products by reducing manufacturing costs and introducing new and higher value-added products. If we are unable to maintain overall average selling prices or offset any declines in average selling prices with realized savings on product costs, our gross margin will decline. Investment in growth. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in expanding our operations, increasing our headcount, developing our products and differentiated technologies to support our growth and expanding our infrastructure. We expect our total operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future to meet our growth objectives. We plan to continue to invest in our sales and support operations throughout the world, with a particular focus in the near term of adding additional sales and field applications personnel in APAC to further broaden our support and coverage of our existing customer base, in addition to developing new customer relationships and generating design wins. We also intend to continue to invest additional resources in research and development to support the development of our products and differentiated technologies. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization or research and development will occur in advance of experiencing any benefits from such investments, and the return on these investments may be lower than we expect. In addition, as we invest in expanding our operations internationally, our business and results will become further subject to the risks and challenges of international operations, including higher operating expenses and the impact of legal and regulatory developments outside the United States. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue through the sale of our NVM products to OEMs and ODMs, primarily through distributors. We generated 72% and 66% of our revenue from distributors during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, 25 respectively. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We sell the majority of our products to distributors and generally recognize revenue when we ship the product directly to the distributors. Because our distributors market and sell their products worldwide, our revenue by geographic location is not necessarily indicative of where our customers' product sales and design win activity occur, but rather of where their manufacturing operations occur. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs paid to our third-party manufacturers for wafer fabrication, assembly and testing of our NVM products, write-downs of inventory for excess and obsolete inventories including write-downs of inventory for products based on CBRAM technology and accruals for future losses on CBRAM wafer purchase commitments to the extent our costs exceed the market price for such products. To a lesser extent, cost of revenue also includes depreciation of test equipment and expenses relating to manufacturing support activities, including personnel-related costs, logistics and quality assurance and shipping. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expense. Personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, are the most significant component of each of our operating expense categories. In addition, in the near term we expect to hire additional personnel, primarily in our selling and marketing functions, and increase research and development expenditures, such as prototype wafers, associated with the implementation of our CBRAM technology in a manufacturing facility in Asia. Accordingly, we expect our operating expenses to increase as we invest in these initiatives. Research and Development .Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our products and technologies. Additional research and development expenses include product prototypes, mask costs, external test and characterization expenses, depreciation, amortization of design tool software licenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and allocated overhead expenses. We also incur costs related to outsourced research and development activities. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to improve our product features, increase our portfolio of solutions and implement our CBRAM manufacturing technology in a new manufacturing facility. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for our sales, business development, marketing, and applications engineering activities, third-party sales representative commissions, promotional and other marketing expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and travel expenses. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our direct sales teams, primarily in the Asia Pacific Region, and increase our marketing activities. General and Administrative .General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, consulting expenses and professional fees. Professional fees principally consist of legal, audit, tax and accounting services. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we hire additional personnel, make improvements to our infrastructure and incur significant additional costs for the compliance requirements of operating as a public company, including higher legal, insurance and accounting expenses. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net is comprised of interest income (expense) and other income (expense). Interest expense consists of interest on our outstanding debt. Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in fair value of our preferred stock warrant liability and foreign exchange gains or losses. Our foreign currency exchange gains and losses relate to transactions and asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We expect our foreign currency gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 26 Prior to our IPO, we cl assified our preferred stock warrants as a liability on our consolidated balance sheets and recorded changes in fair value at each balance sheet date with the corresponding change recorded as other income (expense). We recorded a final adjustment to the fa ir value of the warrants as of the closing of our IPO on October30, 2015 and the warrants are no longer subject to fair value accounting thereafter due to their conversion into warrants to purchase common stock. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of U.S. federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands, except percentage data): Revenue Revenue increased by $0.5 million, or 5%, during the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase was due primarily to an increase in sales of our data flash products. During the first three months of 2016, we began to see a slowdown in customer orders that we believe were due to reduced consumer demand in our end markets. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue decreased by $0.7 million, or 11%, during the three months ended March 31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 due primarily to a reduction in direct manufacturing costs. Gross margin increased by $1.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 due to improvements in our cost structure and an increase in sales of data flash products. 27 Operating Expenses Research and Development .Research and development expense increased by $1.0million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015, due to personnel related expenses of $0.6 million, an increase in materials and supplies of $0.2 million, and an increase of facilities costs of $0.2 million. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense increased by $0.6million during the three months ended March 31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015, mainly due to personnel related expenses. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.9million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March31, 2015, mainly due to personnel related expenses of $0.6 million, legal, accounting, and insurance costs of $0.2 million and facilities costs of $0.1 million. Gain from settlement with a former foundry supplier. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, we recognized a non-cash gain of $2.0 million resulting from a settlement of a disputed liability with a former foundry supplier. We did not recognize a similar gain or loss during the three months ended March 31, 2015. Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense, net increased by $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015, due to increased levels of debt outstanding. Other income (expense), net increased by $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 due primarily to favorable foreign currency transaction adjustments. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes decreased by $35,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 due to a reduction in tax expense related to our French subsidiary. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily with gross proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $78.5 million of convertible preferred stock, $22.5 million of term debt associated with the acquisition of the certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, and net proceeds from our IPO on October 30, 2015 of $22.1 million. Our principal source of liquidity as of 28 March 31, 2016 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $19.1million. We did not have any bo rrowing capacity available under our credit facility as of March 31, 2016. Our outstanding borrowings under this credit facility as of March 31, 2016 were $12.5million. Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are held in the United States. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs over the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our spending to support research and development activities, the timing and cost of establishing additional sales and marketing capabilities, the introduction of new and enhanced products and our costs to implement new manufacturing technologies. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any additional debt financing obtained by us in the future could also involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, if we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary source of cash from operating activities has been from cash collections from our customers. We expect cash inflows from operating activities to be affected by increases in sales and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel costs, investments in research and development and sales and marketing, and inventory procurement. Net cash used in operating activities for the periods presented consisted of net losses adjusted for certain noncash items and changes in working capital. Within changes in working capital, changes in accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable generally account for the largest adjustments, as we typically use more cash to fund accounts receivable and build inventory as our business grows. Increases in accounts payable typically provides more cash as we do more business with our contract foundries and other third parties, depending on the timing of payments. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in operating activities was $2.1 million, primarily from a net loss of $1.5 million and the impact of a $2.0 million non-cash gain resulting from a settlement with a former foundry supplier partially offset by non-cash charges of $0.8 million related to stock-based compensation expense and $0.6 million related to depreciation and amortization. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash provided by operating activities was $0.3 million, primarily from a net loss of $2.3 million offset by a net change in our operating assets and liabilities of $1.8 million and non-cash charges of $0.8 million primarily related to and stock based compensation, depreciation, and amortization. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of purchases of property and equipment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to support continued growth of our business. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, cash used in investing activities was $0.4 million and $31,000, respectively, due to purchases of equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities primarily include proceeds and payments related to our term loans and our credit facilities. During three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in financing activities was $1.5 million due to principal payments on outstanding loan obligations. 29 During three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used in financing activities was $1.5million due to principal payments on outstanding borrowings. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purpose. Credit Facility In April 2015, we entered into a three-year $15.0 million credit agreement, or the new term loan facility, which replaced our prior senior secured revolving credit and term loan facility. The agreement provides for a senior secured term loan facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes including working capital, to repay certain indebtedness and for capital expenditures and other expenses. Interest will accrue on any outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to (a) the higher of (i) the prime rate (as publicly announced from time to time by the Wall Street Journal) and (ii) 3.25% plus (b) (i) 1.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are greater than 125% of the outstanding principal of our borrowings under the new term loan facility, or (ii) 2.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are less than or equal to 125% of such borrowings. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets and contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain a monthly asset coverage ratio after September 30, 2015 of not less than 1.10 to 1.00, and quarterly adjusted EBITDA (measured on a trailing three-month basis) of $1 through March 31, 2016 and increasing to higher levels thereafter. . Under the agreement, the quarterly EBITDA covenant is not applicable if the asset coverage ratio is met at all times during any particular quarter. The agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets, merge or consolidate and make acquisitions. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of five percent above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions and had gross borrowings of $12.5 million outstanding. We may not draw additional funds under the new term loan facility and our borrowings mature on April 30, 2018. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2016: (1) Operating leases primarily relate to our leases of office space with terms expiring through July 31, 2023. (2) Represents outstanding purchase orders for wafer commitments that we have placed with our suppliers as of March 31, 2016. (3) Financing arrangements represent debt maturities under our term loan. (4) Capital lease obligations relate to the lease of certain equipment with terms that expire in 2016. (5) Represents our commitments under the CBRAM Joint Development and Manufacturing Agreement executed on February 18, 2016 with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. As of March 31, 2016, we had a liability of $11,000 for uncertain tax positions. Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Our management and independent registered public accounting firm did not and were not required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 in accordance with the provisions of the JOBS Act. 30 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates During the three months ended March 31, 2016 there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in the financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 30, 2016. 31Item1. Financial Statements Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share and per share data) (1) The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date. See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands, except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Organization and Nature of Operations. Adesto Technologies Corporation (together with its subsidiaries; "Adesto", "we", "our", "us" or the "Company") was incorporated in the state of California in January 2006 and reincorporated in Delaware in October 2015. We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory ("NVM") products. Our corporate headquarters are located in Sunnyvale, California. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation and our financial results include the operating results of those assets from the date of acquisition. The Company completed its initial public offering ("IPO") of common stock on October 30, 2015. The Company sold 5,192,184 shares, including 192,184 shares for the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares. The shares were sold at an initial public offering price of $5.00 per share for net proceeds of $22.1 million to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to complete annual financial statements. In the opinion of our management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company and its results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented have been included. Operating results for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December31, 2016, for any other interim period or for any other future year. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date, but does not include all of the disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the SEC on March 30, 2016. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the results of our operations, and the operations of our wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies described in Note 1, Organization and Summary ofSignificant Accounting Policies , in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year endedDecember31, 2015 that have had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes, except as described below. Reverse Stock Split. On October 1, 2015, we effected a 1-for-33 reverse stock split of our common stock and convertible preferred stock (collectively, "Capital Stock"). On the effective date of the reverse stock split, (i) each 33 shares of outstanding Capital Stock were reduced to one share of Capital Stock; (ii) the number of shares of Capital Stock into which each outstanding warrant or option to purchase Capital Stock is exercisable were proportionately reduced on a 33-to-1 basis; (iii) the exercise price of each outstanding warrant or option to purchase Capital Stock were proportionately increased on a 1-to-33 basis; and (iv) each 33 shares of authorized Capital Stock were reduced to one share of Capital Stock. All of the share numbers, share prices, and exercise prices have been adjusted, on a retroactive basis, to reflect this 1-for-33 reverse stock split. The par value of the common stock and convertible preferred stock were not adjusted as a result of the reverse stock split. Use of Estimates. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate those estimates, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts, reserves for sales, warranty accrual, inventory write-downs, valuation of long-lived assets, including property and equipment 7 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, loss on purchase commitments, valuation of deferred taxes and contingencies. In addition, we use assumptions when employing the Black-Scholes op tion-pricing model to calculate the fair value of stock options granted. We base our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the ci rcumstances, when these carrying values are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable Allowances. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the selling price is fixed or determinable, transfer of title occurs, and the collectibility of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Due to the historical immaterial level of product returns under warranty, we do not record a reserve for estimated returns under warranty at the time of revenue recognition. Generally, we meet product sale revenue recognition conditions upon shipment because, in most cases, title and risk of loss passes to the customer at that time. In addition, we estimate and record provisions for future returns and other charges against revenue at the time of shipment, consistent with the terms of sale. We sell products to distributors at the price listed in our distributor price book. At the time of sale, we record a sales reserve for ship from stock and debits ("SSDs"), stock rotation rights and any special programs approved by management. We offset the sales reserve against recorded revenues, producing the revenue amount reported in our consolidated statements of operations. The market price for our products can differ significantly from the book price at which we sold the product to the distributor. When the market price of a particular distributor's sales opportunity to their customers would result in low or negative margins for the distributor, as compared to our original book price, we negotiate SSDs with the distributor. Management analyzes our SSD history to develop current SSD rates that form the basis of the SSD revenue reserve recorded each period. We obtain the historical SSD rates from the distributor's records and our internal records. We typically grant payment terms of between 30 and 60 days to our customers. Our customers generally pay within those terms. Distributors are invoiced for shipments at listed book price. When the distributors pay the invoice, they may claim debits for SSDs previously authorized by us when appropriate. Once claimed, we process the requests against prior authorizations and adjust reserves previously established for that customer. The revenue we record for sales to our distributors is net of estimated provisions for these programs. Determining net revenue requires significant judgments and estimates on our part. We base our estimates on historical experience rates, the levels of inventory held by our distributors, current trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there is a risk actual amounts may differ materially from our estimates. Our consolidated financial condition and operating results depend on our ability to make reliable estimates. We believe that such estimates are reasonable. We also monitor collectibility of accounts receivable primarily through review of our accounts receivable aging. When facts and circumstances indicate the collection of specific amounts or from specific customers is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts. Shipping Costs. We charge shipping costs to cost of revenue as incurred. Product Warranty. Our products are sold with a limited warranty for a period of one year, warranting that the product conforms to specifications and is free from material defects in design, materials and workmanship. To date, we have had insignificant returns of any defective production parts. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded $250,000 for a specific potential warranty claim. As of June 30, 2016, approximately $41,000 has been incurred relating to this potential warranty claim. As of June 30, 2016, the warranty accrual was $209,000. 8 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Income Taxes. We account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach, which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the consolidated financial statements, but have not been reflected in our taxable income. Valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets as necessary when in management's estimate, based on available objective evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not generate sufficient taxable income in future periods to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We recognize in our consolidated financial statements the impact of a tax position that based on its technical merits is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. Foreign Currency Translation. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency. In consolidation, we translate assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date. We translate revenue and expense accounts at the average exchange rates during the period in which the transaction takes place. Net gains or losses from foreign currency translation of assets and liabilities were a loss of $4,000 and a gain of $21,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net gains or losses from foreign currency translation of assets and liabilities were a loss of $17,000 and a loss of $0.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and are included in the cumulative translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, a component of stockholders' equity. Net gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency were a $34,000 loss and a $3,000 gain for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency were a $12,000 loss and a $0.1 million loss for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and are included in other income (expense), net. Cash and Cash Equivalents. We consider all highly liquid investments with an initial maturity of 90 days or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. We maintain such funds in overnight cash deposits. Property and Equipment. Property and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets or the term of the related lease, whichever is shorter. Estimates of useful lives are as follows: Inventories. We record inventories at the lower of standard cost (which generally approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or market value. On a quarterly basis, we analyze inventories on a part-by-part basis. The carrying value of inventory is adjusted for excess and obsolete inventory based on inventory age, shipment history and the forecast of demand over a specific future period. At the point of loss recognition, a new lower cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that new cost basis. The semiconductor markets that we serve are volatile and actual results may vary from forecast or other assumptions, potentially affecting our assessment of excess and obsolete inventory which could have a material effect on our results of operations. Long-Lived Assets. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We recognize an impairment loss when the net book value of such assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the asset. If impairment is indicated, we write the 9 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements asset down to its estimated fair value. For all periods presented, we have not recognized any impairment losses on our long- lived assets. Purchased Intangible Assets. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Purchased intangible assets with definite lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets as follows: Goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed. We evaluate our goodwill, at a minimum, on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 1 of each year. We last conducted our annual goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2015 and no goodwill impairment was indicated. When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may initially perform a qualitative assessment which includes a review and analysis of certain quantitative factors to estimate if a reporting unit's fair value significantly exceeds its carrying value. When the estimate of a reporting unit's fair value appears more likely than not to be less than its carrying value based on this qualitative assessment, we continue to the first step of two steps impairment test. The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined based on a weighting of income and market approaches. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings for comparable companies. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, and future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base these fair value estimates on reasonable assumptions that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. A potential impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is lower than its net book value. The second step of the process is only performed if a potential impairment exists, and it involves determining the difference between the fair values of the reporting unit's net assets, other than goodwill, and the fair value of the reporting unit, and, if the difference is less than the net book value of goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded. In the event that we determine that the value of goodwill has become impaired, we record a charge for the amount of impairment during the fiscal quarter in which the determination is made. We operate in one reporting unit. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenditures are expensed as incurred. Stock-based Compensation. We account for stock-based compensation using the fair value method. We determine fair value for stock options awarded to employees at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to make various assumptions, including the fair value of the underlying common stock, expected future share price volatility and expected term. We determine the fair value of stock options awarded to non-employees at each vesting date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, and re-measure fair value at each reporting period until the services required under the arrangement are completed. Fair value is recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and only recognize expense for those stock-based awards expected to vest. We estimate the forfeiture rate based on historical experience of our stock-based awards that are granted, exercised and cancelled. If the actual forfeiture rate is 10 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements materially different from our estimate, stock-based compensation expense in future periods could be significantly different from what was recorded in the current period. Concentration of Risk. Our products are primarily manufactured, assembled and tested by third-party foundries and other contractors in Asia and we are heavily dependent on a single foundry in Taiwan for the manufacture of wafers and a single contractor in the Philippines for assembly and testing of our products. We do not have long-term agreements with either of these suppliers. A significant disruption in the operations of these parties would adversely impact the production of our products for a substantial period of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables. We place substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents on deposit with a reputable, high credit quality financial institution in the United States of America. We believe that the bank that holds substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents is financially sound and, accordingly, subject to minimal credit risk. Deposits held with the bank may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. We generally do not require collateral or other security in support of accounts receivable. We periodically review the need for an allowance for doubtful accounts by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, the age of the accounts receivable balances and current economic conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay. As a result of our favorable collection experience and customer concentration, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Customer concentrations as a percentage of revenue were as follows: * less than 10% Customer concentrations as a percentage of gross accounts receivable were as follows: * less than 10% Net Loss per Share. Basic net loss per share is calculated by dividing the net loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, without consideration for potentially dilutive securities. Diluted net loss per share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted average number of common shares and potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding for the period determined using the treasury-stock and if-converted methods. For purposes of the diluted net loss per share calculation, common stock options, restricted stock units, and warrants are considered to be potentially dilutive securities. 11 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Loss Contingencies. We are or have been subject to claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate contingent liabilities, including threatened or pending litigation, for potential losses. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceedings is considered probable and the amount can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based upon the best information available. For potential losses for which there is a reasonable possibility (meaning the likelihood is more than remote but less than probable) that a loss exists, we will disclose an estimate of the potential loss or range of such potential loss or include a statement that an estimate of the potential loss cannot be made. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates, which could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, creating ASC Topic 606. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 605 and aims to simplify the number of requirements to follow for revenue recognition and make revenue recognition more comparable across various entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. There are five core principles: 1. Identify the contract(s) with a customer. 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract. 3. Determine the transaction price. 4. Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract. 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. Additional considerations under this update include: accounting for costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties About an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The amendments require management to perform interim and annual assessments of an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and provide guidance on determining when and how to disclose going concern uncertainties in the financial statements. ASU 2014-15 applies to all entities and is effective for annual and interim reporting periods ending after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs", which simplifies the presentation of debt issuance costs. ASU 2015-03 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015 and interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We adopted this guidance on our consolidated financial statements with no effect in the first quarter of 2016. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, amending ASC 330. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 330 and aims to simplify the subsequent measurement of inventory. Currently, inventory can be measured at the lower of cost or market, which could result in several potential outcomes, as market could be replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less an approximately normal profit margin. The major amendments would be as follows: 1. Inventory should be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. 2. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. 3. The amendment does not apply to inventory measured under LIFO or the retail inventory method. 4. The amendment does apply to all other inventory, which includes inventory measured via FIFO or average cost. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those fiscal years), or the first quarter of 2017, and do not expect it to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, Topic 842. This ASU requires lease assets and lease liabilities arising from leases, including operating leases, to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU 2016-02 will become effective for us on January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation, ASC Topic 718: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. Under this ASU, several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions are simplified, including: (a) income tax consequences; (b) classification of awards as either equity or liabilities; and (c) classification on the statement of cash flows. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2017, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. 12 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Topic 606. T he ASU, among other things: (1) clarifies the objective of the collectability criterion for applying paragraph 606-10-25-7; (2) permits an entity to exclude amounts collected from customers for all sales (and other similar) taxes from the transaction price ; (3) specifies that the measurement date for noncash consideration is contract inception; (4)provides a practical expedient that permits an entity to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications that occur before the beginning of the earliest perio d presented when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations; (5) clarifies that a completed contract fo r purposes of transition is a contract for which all (or substantially all) of the revenue was recognized under legacy GAAP before the date of initial application, and (6) clarifies that an entity that retrospectively applies the guidance in Topic 606 to e ach prior reporting period is not required to disclose the effect of the accounting change for the period of adoption. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. Note 2. Balance Sheet Components. Accounts Receivable, Net. Accounts receivable, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Inventories. Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): For the three months ended June 30, 2016, we realized a benefit of $0.6 million from the sales of previously reserved products. For the three months ended June 30, 2015, we did not record a write-down nor did we realize a benefit from previously reserved products. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, we realized benefits of $0.7 million and $0.7 million, respectively, from the sales of previously reserved products. Other current assets. Other current assets consisted of the following (in thousands): 13 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Property and Equipment, Net. Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 was $0.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 was $0.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities. Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): Note 3. Fair Value Measurements. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. We measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value at each reporting period using a fair value hierarchy which requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Three levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 . Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs other than quoted prices which are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instruments. Level 3. Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity and which are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 14 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had no financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Note 4. Purchased Intangible Assets. In 2012, in connection with our purchase of the serial flash memory product line assets from Atmel Corporation, we recorded $16.4 million of intangible assets. Intangible assets were as follows (in thousands): We recorded amortization expense related to the acquisition-related intangible assets as follows (in thousands): 15 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements The estimated future amortization expense of acquisition-related intangible assets subject to amortization after June 30, 2016 is as follows (in thousands): Note 5. Borrowings. Bridge Bank Loan. In October 2013, we entered into the Business Financing Agreement (the "BFA") with Bridge Bank N.A. The BFA consisted of both a revolving credit facility under which we were permitted to borrow up to 80% of eligible accounts receivable but not to exceed $7.5 million and a term loan in the amount of $9.0 million. Interest on the revolving credit facility accrued at the bank's prime rate, which under the BFA could not have been less than 3.25%, plus 1.25% while interest on the term loan accrues at the bank's prime rate plus 3%. Under the term loan, we were required to make interest only payments through April 2014 and principal payments of $300,000 monthly thereafter plus interest. Borrowings under the BFA were secured by all of our assets and were subject to certain financial covenants, including maintaining minimum levels of EBITDA on a quarterly basis and a certain minimum asset coverage ratio based on the ratio of unrestricted cash plus certain accounts receivable to total outstanding under the agreement. In October 2014, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants. As a result, in October 2014, we entered into the First Business Financing Modification Agreement (the "BFA Modification") under which the covenant defaults were waived. The BFA Modification (i) increased the interest rate charged on the term loan from the bank's prime rate plus 3% to the bank's prime rate plus 4% and would have declined to the bank's prime rate plus 3% upon the raising of additional equity of not less than $2.5 million, (ii) required us to continue to maintain certain minimum levels of EBITDA and asset coverage ratios, (iii) required us to maintain unrestricted cash of not less than $4.25 million until that point at which we either receive additional equity of not less than $5.0 million or maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 (based on the ratio of EBITDA to current portion of total amounts outstanding under the BFA Modification plus period-to-date interest expense payments) for two consecutive quarters. In addition, under the BFA the bank was paid a facility fee of $82,500 at closing. Under the BFA Modification, the bank was paid an additional facility fee of $50,000 and received a warrant to purchase 1,488 shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock. The facility fees and the value of the warrant, $0.1 million, were recorded as a debt discount and have been amortized over the life of the agreement. Amortization of debt discount was $0.1 million in 2015. Borrowings of $10.9 million under this facility were repaid in full in April 2015. Opus Bank Term Loan. In April 2015, we entered into a three-year $15.0 million credit agreement, or the term loan facility. The agreement provides for a senior secured term loan facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes including working capital, to repay certain indebtedness and for capital expenditures and other expenses. Interest will accrue on any outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to (a) the higher of (i) the prime rate (as publicly announced from time to time by the Wall Street Journal) and (ii) 3.25% plus (b) (i) 1.00% if our cash equivalents are greater than 125% of the outstanding principal of our borrowings under the term loan facility, or (ii) 2.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are less than or equal to 125% of such borrowings. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets and the agreement contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain a monthly asset coverage ratio after September 30, 2015 of not less than 1.10 to 1.00, and quarterly adjusted EBITDA (measured on a trailing three-month basis) of $1 through June 30, 2016 and increasing to higher levels thereafter. Under the agreement, the quarterly EBITDA covenant is not applicable if the asset coverage ratio is met at all times during any particular quarter. The agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets, merge or consolidate and make acquisitions. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay 16 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of five percent above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of June 30, 2016, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions and had borrowings of $11.0million outstanding. We may not draw additional funds under the term loan facility and our borrowings mature on April30, 2018. In connection with the term loan facility, Opus Bank received a warrant to purchase 31,897 shares of Series E convertible preferred stock. Upon the completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015 the preferred stock warrants were converted into 315,282 of our common stock warrants. In addition, we paid financing costs of $0.1 million. The financing costs and the value of the warrant, $0.9 million, were recorded as a debt discount and are being amortized over the life of the agreement. Amortization of debt discount was $0.2 million for the six months ended in June 30, 2016. As of June 30, 2016, the remaining unamortized debt discount was $0.4 million. Outstanding borrowings consisted of the following (in thousands): Future repayments on outstanding borrowings (excluding unamortized discount of $0.4 million as of June 30, 2016) are as follows (in thousands): Interest expense incurred under our borrowings was $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. Interest expense incurred under our borrowings was $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, respectively. Note 6. Segment Information. We operate in one business segment, application-specific and feature-rich, ultra-low power NVM products. Our chief decision-maker, the President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates our performance based on company-wide consolidated results. Revenue is evaluated based on product category and by geographic region. Product revenue from customers is designated based on the geographic region to which the product is delivered. Revenue by geographic region was as follows (in thousands): 17 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Long-lived assets are attributed to the geographic region were they are located. Long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows (in thousands): Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies. Operating Leases. On November 2, 2015, the Company extended the lease for its headquarters by six months to July 2016 by entering into that certain Amendment to Commercial Sublease, dated November 2, 2015, between the Company and eGain Corporation. The Amendment provides for a base rent during the extension period of $47,087 per month. Subsequently, we extended the lease to August 31, 2016. Additionally, on November 2, 2015, the Company entered into a lease with Peterson Ridge LLC pursuant to which the Company has leased a new headquarters facility, consisting of an aggregate of approximately 34,000 square feet of space in Santa Clara, California. The initial term of the lease commenced on November 2, 2015 and is scheduled to end on July 31, 2023 and may be extended, at the Company's option, for an additional five-year period following the initial lease term. Pursuant to the lease, monthly base rental payments due under the lease are expected to be approximately $93,000 per month between August 1, 2016 and February 27, 2017, with annual increases of approximately 3% thereafter. The Company must also pay for certain other operating costs under the lease, including operating expenses, taxes, assessments, insurance, utilities, securities and property management fees. Peterson Ridge LLC is obligated to reimburse the Company for up to $2,521,051 of the Company's out-of-pocket costs associated with any tenant improvements, as defined in the lease. Rent expense under operating leases was $0.5 million and $1.0 million for three and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. Rent expense under operating leases was $0.2 million and $0.4 million for three and six months ended June 30, 2015, respectively. Capital Leases. We have entered into various lease agreements for equipment and software under capital leases with terms of between 24 to 48 months. The equipment and software under the leases are collateral for the lease obligations and are included within property and equipment, net, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. There is no future minimum commitments for capital leases as of June 30, 2016. Obligations under capital leases are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. 18 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Equipment acquired under capital leases is included in property and equipment, net and consisted of the following (in thousands): Purchase Commitments. As of June 30, 2016, we had purchase commitments with our third-party foundries of $3.1 million due within one year, $0.9 million for a licensing and development agreement, and $9.0 million in conjunction with an agreement with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. Litigation. We may be subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation, including intellectual property litigation, arising in the ordinary course of business. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes and are not predictable with assurance. We accrue amounts that we believe are adequate to address any liabilities related to legal proceedings and other loss contingencies that we believe will result in a probable loss that is reasonably estimable Indemnification. During the normal course of business, we may make certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees which may include intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the sales of our products and indemnities for liabilities associated with the infringement of other parties' technology based upon our products. Our exposure under these indemnification provisions is generally limited to the total amount paid by a customer under the agreement. However, certain agreements include indemnification provisions that could potentially expose us to losses in excess of the amount received under the agreement. In addition, we indemnify our officers, directors and certain key employees while they are serving in good faith in such capacities. We have not recorded any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Where necessary, we accrue for losses for any known contingent liabilities, including those that may arise from indemnification provisions, when future payment is probable. Note 8. Common Stock, Common Stock Warrants and Stock Option Plan. Common Stock. We were authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock with $0.0001 par value per share as of December 31, 2015 and 6,666,666 shares of common stock with no par value per share as of December 31, 2014. Each holder of common stock is entitled to one vote per share. The holders of common stock are also entitled to receive dividends, when and if declared by our Board of Directors. 19 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had reserved shares of common stock for future issuances as follows: Upon completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015 all outstanding shares of our preferred stock were converted into 9,114,739 shares of common stock. Common Stock Warrants. The following common stock warrants were outstanding as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and were the result of a conversion of preferred stock warrants upon the completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015. Common stock warrants are exercisable at the option of the holder any time after the date of issuance into shares of our common stock. The aggregate amount of shares of common stock that would be issued is determined by dividing the exercisable price by the conversion price applicable on the date of conversion multiplied by the number of warrants exercised. Employee Benefit Plans 2007 Equity Incentive Plan. In 2007, our Board of Directors and shareholders approved the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan") under which 272,727 shares of common stock were reserved and available for the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to eligible participants. The 2007 Plan was subsequently amended to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan to 787,878 and during the year ended December 31, 2015, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan was increased to 2,651,515. Options and restricted stock awards were granted at a price per share not less than the 85% of the fair value at the date of grant or award, respectively. Restricted stock awarded to persons controlling more than 10% of our stock were granted at a price per share not less than the 100% of the fair value at the date of the award. Options that were granted to new employees generally vest over a four-year period with 25% vesting at the end of one year and the remaining to vest monthly thereafter, while options that were granted to existing employees generally vest over a four-year period. Options granted generally are exercisable up to 10 years from the date of grant. As of October 26, 2015, no shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan and all outstanding options continue to be governed and remain outstanding in accordance with their existing terms under the 2007 Plan. In addition, any shares subject to outstanding awards under the 2007 Plan that are issuable upon the exercise of options that expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full will be available for future grant and issuance under the 2015 Plan (as defined below). 2015 Equity Incentive Plan In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan. The 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became effective on the date immediately prior to the date of our initial public offering. As a result, 1,813,272 shares of common stock previously reserved but unissued under the 2007 Plan on the effective date of the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, and we ceased granting awards under our 2007 20 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January of eac h of 2016 through 2025 by the number of shares equal to 4% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31. However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan authorizes the award of stock options, restricted stock awards, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units ("RSU's"), performance awards and stock bonuses. No person will be eligible to receive more than 2,000,000 shares in any calendar year under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan other than a new employee of ours, who will be eligible to receive no more than 4,000,000 shares under the plan in the calendar year in which the employee commences employment. The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that may be subject to awards granted to any single non-employee director pursuant to the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan in any calendar year shall not exceed 300,000. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan provides that no more than 25,000,000 shares will be issued as incentive stock options. 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan became effective on the date of our initial public offering. We reserved 150,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January following the first offering date by the number of shares equal to 1% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31 (rounded to the nearest whole share). However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. The aggregate number of shares issued over the term of our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will not exceed 2,250,000 shares of our common stock. Under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees will be able to acquire shares of our common stock by accumulating funds through payroll deductions. Eligible employees will be able to select a rate of payroll deduction up to 15% of their base cash compensation. The purchase price for shares of our common stock purchased under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of our common stock on (i) the first trading day of the applicable offering period and (ii) the last trading day of each purchase period in the applicable offering period. Except for the first offering period, each offering period will run for no more than six months, with purchases occurring every six months. The first offering period began upon the effective date of our IPO and will end on June 30, 2016. On May 25, 2016, the Board of Directors extended the initial offering period to July 29, 2016. Subsequent purchase periods will be 6 months in duration beginning on August 1, 2016. No participant will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock in an amount that has a fair market value greater than $25,000, determined as of the first day of the applicable purchase period, for each calendar year in which that right is outstanding. In addition, no participant will be permitted to purchase more than 2,500 shares during any one purchase period or a lesser amount as determined by our compensation committee. Our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will continue until the earlier to occur of its termination by our Board of Directors, the issuance of all shares reserved for issuance under it or the tenth anniversary of its effective date. 21 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements A summary of stock option and restricted stock units activity under the 2007 Plan and the 2015 P lan is as follows: Note 9. Stock-based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation based on fair value as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. We recognize such costs as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the employee's requisite service period, which is generally four years. Our valuation assumptions are as follows: Fair value of common stock. Prior to our IPO in October 2015, we estimated the fair value of our common stock using various valuation methodologies, including valuation analyses performed by third-party valuation firms. After the initial public offering, we used the publicly quoted price as the fair value of our common stock. Risk-free interest rate. We base the risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent expected term of the options for each option group. Expected term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumption is based on the simplified method in which the expected term is equal to the average of the stock-based award's weighted-average vesting period and its contractual term. We expect to continue using the simplified method until sufficient information about historical behavior is available. 22 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Volatility. We determine volatility based on the historical stock volatilities of a group of publicly listed guideline companies over a period equal to the expected terms of the options, as we do not have suffic ient trading history to determine the volatility of our common stock. Dividend yield. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend and do not currently plan to pay a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we used an expected dividend yield of zero. The following table summarizes the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine fair value of stock options: We granted 217,900 stock options during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. We granted 145,731 stock options during the three and six months ended June 30, 2015. The following table presents the effects of stock-based compensation for stock options, RSU's and ESPP shares during the periods (in thousands): Stock-based compensation expense capitalized to inventories was not material during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We did not realize any income tax benefit from stock option exercises in either of the periods presented due to recurring losses and valuation allowances. As of June 30, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, net of estimated forfeitures, was approximately $0.5 million, and this amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2 years. As of June 30, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to RSU's and ESPP was $4.4 million and $32,000, respectively, and these amounts are expected to be recognized over 1.6 years and 0.1 years, respectively. Note 10. Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax provision of $17,000 and $22,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We recorded an income tax provision of $31,000 and $71,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax provision is comprised of estimates of current taxes due in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision reflects tax expense associated with state income tax, foreign taxes, uncertain tax positions and tax expense related to the recording of a deferred tax liability that results from the amortization for income tax purposes of acquisition-related goodwill. The decrease in the tax provision between 2016 and 2015 is primarily due to a decrease in foreign taxes and deferred tax expense associated with our deferred tax liability. As of June 30, 2016, our deferred tax assets are fully offset by a valuation allowance except in those jurisdictions where it is determined that a valuation allowance is not required. Accounting for income taxes provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. Based on the weight of available evidence, which includes historical operating performance, reported cumulative net losses since inception and difficulty in accurately forecasting our future results, we provided a full valuation allowance against our net U.S. deferred tax assets. We reassess the need for our valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. If it is later determined that a portion or all of the valuation allowance is not required, it generally will be a benefit to the income tax provision in the period that such determination is made. 23 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements We evaluate tax positions for recognition using a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, and those tax positions eligible for recognition are measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of bei ng realized upon the effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for our income tax uncertainties in all open tax years. The Company does not anticipat e a material change in the total amount or composition of its unrecognized tax benefits within the 12 months of June 30, 2016. We file tax returns in the United States for federal, California, and other states. All tax years remain open to examination for both federal and state purposes as a result of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards. We file foreign tax returns in the United Kingdom, France, China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. These tax years remain open to examination, except for 2011 and prior years in France. Note 11. Net Loss Per Share. The following outstanding common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share for the periods presented because including them would have been antidilutive: Note 12. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net consisted of the following (in thousands): Note 13. Subsequent Events. On July 7, 2016, the Company entered into a business financing agreement ("Credit Facility") with a financial institution. The Credit Facility provides for (i) a term loan of up to $18.0 million and (ii) a revolving credit line advance in the aggregate amount of the lower of (x) $2.0 million and (y) 80% of certain of the Company's receivables. The term loan made pursuant to the Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5%, plus 0.75%, and matures in June 2019. The Company is also required to pay a facility fee of $150,000 upon entry into the Credit Facility and an additional $10,000 on July 7, 2017. The Company will make interest-only payments on the term loan from July 2016 through September 2016 and will make interest payments and principal payments in 33 equal monthly installments starting October 2016. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is secured by substantially all assets of the Company and any domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain customary exceptions. The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Among other negative covenants, the Company may not permit the ratio of the balance of unrestricted cash deposited at the financial institution to 24 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements the total amounts owed with respect to the term loan to be less than 1.15 to 1.00. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of five percent above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. Concurrently, on July 7, 2016, the Company terminated its term loan facility with another financial institution. In connection with termination and new borrowings under the new Credit Facility, the Company paid off all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest, and fees under the term loan facility. 25 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or to our future financial or operating performance. You can generally identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "could," "intend," "target," "projects," "contemplates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. We have based these forward-looking statements primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully. The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations and should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes to audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. In this Quarterly Report, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, "Adesto," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Adesto Technologies Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory, or NVM, products. We optimize our NVM products for Internet of Things, or IoT, applications including current and next-generation Internet-connected devices in the consumer, industrial, medical and wearables markets. We combine our NVM design capabilities with proprietary intellectual property and differentiated technology platforms to deliver high-performance products that dramatically reduce the overall energy consumption of our customers' systems and extend battery life. Our products feature embedded intelligence in a small form factor and high reliability. Our revenue is derived from the sale of our NVM products, primarily our standard serial flash memory products, which represented substantially all of our revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2016. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, or Atmel. The products we acquired as part of the acquisition were approaching the end of their life cycle and experiencing annual revenue declines. While we provide support for these products, we have not invested further in their research and development. Revenue from these legacy products have declined to $0.3 million from $1.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect that revenue from these products will continue to decline in the future. Since the acquisition, we have invested in developing new products that are better suited for low-power, high-growth applications, accelerated development of select products and introduced new products based on the acquired technology. In 2013, we introduced the first of our next-generation DataFlash and Fusion Flash products, which have similar functionality to our legacy products, but also offer enhanced features such as ultra-deep power down and wide supply voltage range operation. Revenue from our next-generation NVM products was $9.9 million and $9.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We had been exclusively developing products based on Conductive Bridging RAM, or CBRAM, technology prior to the acquisition of assets from Atmel. Since then, we have continued to invest our resources into developing and enhancing our families of CBRAM-based products, although revenue associated with these products has not been material to date. We have made and continue to make these upfront investments because we believe that the introduction of any fundamentally new semiconductor technology must necessarily go through a lengthy customer evaluation process and several cycles of improvement in the field before it can be widely adopted or generate material revenue. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, our products were sold to approximately 400 end customers. In general, we work directly with our customers to have our NVM devices designed into and qualified for their products. Although we maintain direct sales, support and development relationships with our customers, once our products are designed into a customer's product, we sell a majority of our products to those customers through distributors. We generated 71% and 65% of our revenue from distributors during the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Sales to three distributors generated approximately 37% and 26% of our revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Additionally, we derived approximately 86% and 80% of 26 our revenue internationally during the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, the majority of which was recognized in the Asia Pacific, or APAC, region. Revenue by geography is recognized based on t he region to which our products are sold, and not to where the end products are shipped. Our headquarters are located in Sunnyvale, California, with additional sales operations in North America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and APAC regions . We recorded revenue of $10.3 million and $10.6million, and net losses of $4.3million and $1.8 million, for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We recorded revenue of $20.5 million and $20.3million, and net losses of $5.8milli on and $4.0 million, for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Factors Affecting Our Performance Product adoption in new markets and applications. We optimize our products to meet the technical requirements of the emerging IoT market. The growth in the IoT market is dependent on many factors, most of which are outside of our control. Should the IoT market not develop or develop more slowly, our financial results could be adversely affected. Ability to attract and retain customers that make large orders. In 2015, our products were sold to approximately 500 end customers, of which approximately 20 generated more than half our revenue. One end customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in 2015. While we expect the composition of our customers to change over time, our business and operating results will depend on our ability to continually target new and retain existing customers that make large orders, particularly those in growth markets which are less dependent on macroeconomic conditions. Design wins with new and existing customers. We believe our solutions significantly improve the performance and potentially lower the system cost of our customers' designs, particularly if we are part of the early design phase. Accordingly, we work closely with our customers and targeted prospects to understand their product roadmaps and strategies. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success. We define a design win as the successful completion of the evaluation stage, where a customer has tested our product, verified that our product meets its requirements, qualified our NVM device for their products and placed an order for the purchase of our products. The number of our design wins has grown from 32 in 2013 to 65 in 2014 and to 135 in 2015, including 6, 63, and 125 design wins for new products, respectively. We had 86 new design wins during the first six months of 2016. The revenue that we generate, if any, from each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers, internal estimates of customer demand factoring in expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential and internal estimates of overall demand based on historical trends. Pricing, product cost and gross margins of our products. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. In general, newly introduced products and products with higher performance and more features tend to be priced higher than older, more mature products. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline as products mature. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect that the average selling prices of our products will decline as they mature. In the normal course of business, we will seek to offset the effect of declining average selling prices on existing products by reducing manufacturing costs and introducing new and higher value-added products. If we are unable to maintain overall average selling prices or offset any declines in average selling prices with realized savings on product costs, our gross margin will decline. Investment in growth. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in expanding our operations, increasing our headcount, developing our products and differentiated technologies to support our growth and expanding our infrastructure. We expect our total operating expenses to increase significantly in the foreseeable future to meet our growth objectives. We plan to continue to invest in our sales and support operations throughout the world, with a particular focus in the near term of adding additional sales and field applications personnel in APAC to further broaden our support and coverage of our existing customer base, in addition to developing new customer relationships and generating design wins. We also intend to continue to invest additional resources in research and development to support the development of our products and differentiated technologies. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization or research and development will occur in advance of experiencing any benefits from such investments, and the return on these investments may be lower than we expect. In addition, as we invest in expanding our operations internationally, our business and results will become further subject to the risks and challenges of international operations, including higher operating expenses and the impact of legal and regulatory developments outside the United States. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue through the sale of our NVM products to OEMs and ODMs, primarily through distributors. We generated 71% and 65% of our revenue from distributors during the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, 27 respectively. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We sell the majority of our products to distribu tors and generally recognize revenue when we ship the product directly to the distributors. Because our distributors market and sell their products worldwide, our revenue by geographic location is not necessarily indicative of where our customers' product sales and design win activity occur, but rather of where their manufacturing operations occur. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs paid to our third-party manufacturers for wafer fabrication, assembly and testing of our NVM products, write-downs of inventory for excess and obsolete inventories including write-downs of inventory for products based on CBRAM technology and accruals for future losses on CBRAM wafer purchase commitments to the extent our costs exceed the market price for such products. To a lesser extent, cost of revenue also includes depreciation of test equipment and expenses relating to manufacturing support activities, including personnel-related costs, logistics and quality assurance and shipping. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expense. Personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, are the most significant component of each of our operating expense categories. In addition, in the near term we expect to hire additional personnel, primarily in our selling and marketing functions, and increase research and development expenditures, such as prototype wafers, associated with the implementation of our CBRAM technology in a manufacturing facility in Asia. Accordingly, we expect our operating expenses to increase as we invest in these initiatives. Research and Development .Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our products and technologies. Additional research and development expenses include product prototypes, mask costs, external test and characterization expenses, depreciation, amortization of design tool software licenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and allocated overhead expenses. We also incur costs related to outsourced research and development activities. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to improve our product features, increase our portfolio of solutions and implement our CBRAM manufacturing technology in a new manufacturing facility. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for our sales, business development, marketing, and applications engineering activities, third-party sales representative commissions, promotional and other marketing expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and travel expenses. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our direct sales teams, primarily in the Asia Pacific Region, and increase our marketing activities. General and Administrative .General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, consulting expenses and professional fees. Professional fees principally consist of legal, audit, tax and accounting services. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we hire additional personnel, make improvements to our infrastructure and incur significant additional costs for the compliance requirements of operating as a public company, including higher legal, insurance and accounting expenses. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net is comprised of interest income (expense) and other income (expense). Interest expense consists of interest on our outstanding debt. Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in fair value of our preferred stock warrant liability and foreign exchange gains or losses. Our foreign currency exchange gains and losses relate to transactions and asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We expect our foreign currency gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 28 Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of U.S. federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Comparison of the Three and Six months Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands, except percentage data): Revenue Revenue decreased by $0.3 million, or 3%, during the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in sales of our data flash products. During the first three months of 2016, we began to see a slowdown in customer orders that we believe is due to reduced consumer demand in our end markets. This slowdown continued in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and may persist in future periods. Revenue increased by $0.2 million, or 1%, during the six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase was due primarily to an increase in sales of our data flash products in three months ended March 31, 2016. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue decreased by $0.9 million, or 13%, during the three months ended June 30, 2016, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to a reduction in direct manufacturing costs. Cost of revenue decreased by $1.5 million, or 12%, during the six months ended June 30, 2016, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to a reduction in direct manufacturing costs. Gross margin increased by $0.5 million during the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to improvements in our cost structure and a reduction in direct manufacturing expenses. Gross margin increased by $1.7 million during the six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 due to improvements in our cost structure, favorable product mix, and an increase in sales of data flash products. 29 Operating Expenses Research and Development .Research and development expense increased by $1.1million during the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015, due to personnel-related expenses of $0.4 million, an increase in materials and supplies of $0.4 million, and an increase of facilities costs of $0.2 million.Research and development expense increased by $2.0million during the six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015, due to personnel-related expenses of $0.7 million, an increase in materials, supplies and third party project expenses of $0.6 million, an increase in expenses for outsourced research and development activities, which consisted primarily of fees for professional consultants, of $0.3 million, and an increase in facilities expense of $0.4 million. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense increased by $0.8million during the three months ended June 30, 2016, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015, mainly due to personnel-related expenses. Sales and marketing expense increased by $1.4million during the six months ended June 30, 2016, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015, mainly due to personnel-related expenses. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.9million during the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June30, 2015, mainly due to personnel-related expenses of $0.7 million and insurance costs of $0.2 million. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.7million during the six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June30, 2015, mainly due to personnel-related expenses of $1.3 million and public company-related costs, including insurance, of $0.5 million. Gain from settlement with a former foundry supplier. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, we recognized a non-cash gain of $2.0 million resulting from settlement of a disputed liability with a former foundry supplier. We did not recognize a similar gain or loss during the six months ended June 30, 2015. Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense, net decreased by $81,000 and $4,000 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, due to decreased levels of debt outstanding. Other income, net decreased by $0.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to a settlement in June 2015 with Atmel regarding certain funds held in escrow in connection with our purchase of assets from them. Other income, net decreased by $0.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to a settlement in June 2015 with Atmel regarding certain funds held in escrow in connection with our purchase of assets from them. 30 Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes decreased by $5,000 and $40,000 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 due to a reduction in tax expense related to our foreign subsidiaries and deferred tax expense related to our deferred tax liability. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily with gross proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $78.5 million of convertible preferred stock, $22.5 million of term debt associated with the acquisition of the certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, net proceeds from our IPO on October 30, 2015 of $22.1 million and borrowings under our current Credit Facility of $19.6 million. Our principal source of liquidity as of June 30, 2016 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $14.1 million. We did not have any borrowing capacity available under our term loan facility as of June 30, 2016. Our outstanding borrowings under this facility as of June 30, 2016 were $11.0 million. Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are held in the United States. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs over the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our spending to support research and development activities, the timing and cost of establishing additional sales and marketing capabilities, the introduction of new and enhanced products and our costs to implement new manufacturing technologies. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any additional debt financing obtained by us in the future could also involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, if we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary source of cash from operating activities has been from cash collections from our customers. We expect cash inflows from operating activities to be affected by increases in sales and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel costs, investments in research and development and sales and marketing, and inventory procurement. Net cash used in operating activities for the periods presented consisted of net losses adjusted for certain noncash items and changes in working capital. Within changes in working capital, changes in accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable generally account for the largest adjustments, as we typically use more cash to fund accounts receivable and build inventory as our business grows. Increases in accounts payable typically provides more cash as we do more business with our contract foundries and other third parties, depending on the timing of payments. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, cash used in operating activities was $4.8 million, primarily from a net loss of $5.8 million and the impact of a $2.0 million non-cash gain resulting from a settlement with a former foundry supplier partially offset by non-cash charges of $1.6 million related to stock-based compensation expense and $1.0 million related to depreciation and amortization. 31 During the six months ended June 30, 2015, cash used in operating activities was $3.3million, primarily from a net loss of $4.0million and net changes in our o perating assets and liabilities of $0.9 million partially offset by non-cash charges of $1.8 million primarily related to and stock based compensation, depreciation, and amortization. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of purchases of property and equipment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to support continued growth of our business. During the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, cash used in investing activities was $1.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively, due to purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements related to our new headquarter facility in Santa Clara, CA. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities primarily include proceeds and payments related to our term loans and our credit facilities. During six months ended June 30, 2016, cash used in financing activities was $3.0 million due to principal payments on outstanding loan obligations. During six months ended June 30, 2015, cash provided by financing activities was $4.0 million due to $14.9 million of proceeds from the Opus term loan partially offset by repayments of $10.9 million on the line of credit and term loan held by Bridge Bank. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purpose. Credit Facility In April 2015, we entered into a three-year $15.0 million credit agreement, or the term loan facility. The agreement provides for a senior secured term loan facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes including working capital, to repay certain indebtedness and for capital expenditures and other expenses. Interest will accrue on any outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to (a) the higher of (i) the prime rate (as publicly announced from time to time by the Wall Street Journal) and (ii) 3.25% plus (b) (i) 1.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are greater than 125% of the outstanding principal of our borrowings under the term loan facility, or (ii) 2.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are less than or equal to 125% of such borrowings. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets and contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain a monthly asset coverage ratio of not less than 1.10 to 1.00, and quarterly adjusted EBITDA (measured on a trailing three-month basis) of $1 through June 30, 2016 and increasing to higher levels thereafter. Under the agreement, the quarterly EBITDA covenant is not applicable if the asset coverage ratio is met at all times during any particular quarter. The agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets, merge or consolidate and make acquisitions. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of five percent above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of June 30, 2016, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions and had gross borrowings of $11.0 million outstanding. We may not draw additional funds under the term loan facility and our borrowings mature on April 30, 2018. On July 7, 2016, we terminated the term loan facility. In connection with termination and new borrowings under the new Credit Facility (as defined below), the Company paid off all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest, and fees under the term loan facility On July 7, 2016, we entered into a business financing agreement ("Credit Facility") with a financial institution. The Credit Facility provides for (i) a term loan of up to $18.0 million and (ii) a revolving credit line advance in the aggregate amount of the lower of (x) $2.0 million and (y) 80% of certain of our receivables. The term loan made pursuant to the Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the prime rate and 3.5%, plus 0.75%, and matures in June 2019. We are also required to pay a facility fee of $150,000 upon entry into the Credit Facility and an additional $10,000 on July 7, 2017. We will make interest-only payments on the term loan from July 2016 through September 2016 and will make principal and interest payments in 33 equal monthly installments starting October 2016. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of Adesto and its domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain customary exceptions. The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Among other negative covenants, we may not permit the ratio of the balance 32 of unrestricted cash deposited at the financial institution to the total amounts owed with respect to the term loan to be less than 1.15 to 1.00. Upon an o ccurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of five percent above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreem ent. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our contractual obligations and commitments as of June 30, 2016: (1) Operating leases primarily relate to our leases of office space with terms expiring through July 31, 2023. (2) Represents outstanding purchase orders for wafer commitments that we have placed with our suppliers as of June 30, 2016. (3) Financing arrangements represent debt maturities under our term loan facility. (4) Represents our commitments under the CBRAM Joint Development and Manufacturing Agreement executed on February 18, 2016 with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. (5) Represents our commitments under the Licensing and Development Agreement executed on April 21, 2016 with Semitech Semiconductor Pty, Ltd. (6) Payments for tenant improvements related to our new headquarters facility in Santa Clara, California, net of reimbursement from landlord. As of June 30, 2016, we had a liability of $11,000 for uncertain tax positions. In July 2016, we paid off all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest, and fees under the term loan facility with proceeds from our borrowings under the Credit Facility. In July 2016, we borrowed $19.6 million under the Credit Facility. Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Our management and independent registered public accounting firm did not and were not required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 in accordance with the provisions of the JOBS Act. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates During the six months ended June 30, 2016 there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in the financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 30, 2016. 33Item1. Financial Statements Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share and per share data) (1) The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date. See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands, except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Adesto Technologies Corporation Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Organization and Nature of Operations. Adesto Technologies Corporation (together with its subsidiaries; "Adesto", "we", "our", "us" or the "Company") was incorporated in the state of California in January 2006 and reincorporated in Delaware in October 2015. We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory ("NVM") products. Our corporate headquarters are located in Santa Clara, California. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation and our financial results include the operating results of those assets from the date of acquisition. The Company completed its initial public offering ("IPO") of common stock on October 30, 2015. The Company sold 5,192,184 shares, including 192,184 shares for the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares. The shares were sold at an initial public offering price of $5.00 per share for net proceeds of $22.1 million to the Company, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to complete annual financial statements. In the opinion of our management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company and its results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented have been included. Operating results for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December31, 2016, for any other interim period or for any other future year. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2015 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date, but does not include all of the disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the SEC on March 30, 2016. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the results of our operations, and the operations of our wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies described in Note 1, Organization and Summary ofSignificant Accounting Policies , in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year endedDecember31, 2015 that have had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes, except as described below. Reverse Stock Split. On October 1, 2015, we effected a 1-for-33 reverse stock split of our common stock and convertible preferred stock (collectively, "Capital Stock"). On the effective date of the reverse stock split, (i) each 33 shares of outstanding Capital Stock were reduced to one share of Capital Stock; (ii) the number of shares of Capital Stock into which each outstanding warrant or option to purchase Capital Stock is exercisable were proportionately reduced on a 33-to-1 basis; (iii) the exercise price of each outstanding warrant or option to purchase Capital Stock were proportionately increased on a 1-to-33 basis; and (iv) each 33 shares of authorized Capital Stock were reduced to one share of Capital Stock. All of the share numbers, share prices, and exercise prices have been adjusted, on a retroactive basis, to reflect this 1-for-33 reverse stock split. The par value of the common stock and convertible preferred stock were not adjusted as a result of the reverse stock split. Use of Estimates. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate those estimates, including those related to allowances for doubtful 7 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) accou nts, reserves for sales, warranty accrual, inventory write-downs, valuation of long-lived assets, including property and equipment and identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, loss on purchase commitments, valuation of deferred taxes and contingencies. In addition, we use assumptions when employing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of stock options granted. We base our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on vario us other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, when these carrying values are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable Allowances. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the selling price is fixed or determinable, transfer of title occurs, and the collectibility of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Due to the historical immaterial level of product returns under warranty, we do not record a reserve for estimated returns under warranty at the time of revenue recognition. Generally, we meet product sale revenue recognition conditions upon shipment because, in most cases, title and risk of loss passes to the customer at that time. In addition, we estimate and record provisions for future returns and other charges against revenue at the time of shipment, consistent with the terms of sale. We sell products to distributors at the price listed in our distributor price book. At the time of sale, we record a sales reserve for ship from stock and debits ("SSDs"), stock rotation rights and any special programs approved by management. We offset the sales reserve against recorded revenues, producing the revenue amount reported in our consolidated statements of operations. The market price for our products can differ significantly from the book price at which we sold the product to the distributor. When the market price of a particular distributor's sales opportunity to their customers would result in low or negative margins for the distributor, as compared to our original book price, we negotiate SSDs with the distributor. Management analyzes our SSD history to develop current SSD rates that form the basis of the SSD revenue reserve recorded each period. We obtain the historical SSD rates from the distributor's records and our internal records. We typically grant payment terms of between 30 and 60 days to our customers. Our customers generally pay within those terms. Distributors are invoiced for shipments at listed book price. When the distributors pay the invoice, they may claim debits for SSDs previously authorized by us when appropriate. Once claimed, we process the requests against prior authorizations and adjust reserves previously established for that customer. The revenue we record for sales to our distributors is net of estimated provisions for these programs. Determining net revenue requires significant judgments and estimates on our part. We base our estimates on historical experience rates, the levels of inventory held by our distributors, current trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there is a risk actual amounts may differ materially from our estimates. Our consolidated financial condition and operating results depend on our ability to make reliable estimates. We believe that such estimates are reasonable. We also monitor collectibility of accounts receivable primarily through review of our accounts receivable aging. When facts and circumstances indicate the collection of specific amounts or from specific customers is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts. Shipping Costs. We charge shipping costs to cost of revenue as incurred. Product Warranty. Our products are sold with a limited warranty for a period of one year, warranting that the product conforms to specifications and is free from material defects in design, materials and workmanship. To date, we have had insignificant returns of any defective production parts. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded $250,000 for a specific potential warranty claim. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, approximately $41,000 has been incurred relating to this potential warranty claim. As of September 30, 2016, the warranty accrual was $209,000. 8 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Income Taxes. We account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach, which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the consolidated financial statements, but have not been reflected in our taxable income. Valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets as necessary when in management's estimate, based on available objective evidence, it is more likely than not that we will not generate sufficient taxable income in future periods to realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We recognize in our consolidated financial statements the impact of a tax position that based on its technical merits is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. Foreign Currency Translation. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency. In consolidation, we translate assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date. We translate revenue and expense accounts at the average exchange rates during the period in which the transaction takes place. Net gains or losses from foreign currency translation of assets and liabilities were a loss of $19,000 and a gain of $45,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net gains or losses from foreign currency translation of assets and liabilities were a loss of $36,000 and a loss of $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and are included in the cumulative translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, a component of stockholders' equity. Net gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency were a loss of $18,000 and a loss of $20,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency were a loss of $29,000 and a loss of $20,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and are included in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Cash and Cash Equivalents. We consider all highly liquid investments with an initial maturity of 90 days or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. We maintain such funds in overnight cash deposits. Property and Equipment. Property and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets or the term of the related lease, whichever is shorter. Estimates of useful lives are as follows: Inventories. We record inventories at the lower of standard cost (which generally approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or market value. On a quarterly basis, we analyze inventories on a part-by-part basis. The carrying value of inventory is adjusted for excess and obsolete inventory based on inventory age, shipment history and the forecast of demand over a specific future period. At the point of loss recognition, a new lower cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that new cost basis. The semiconductor markets that we serve are volatile and actual results may vary from forecast or other assumptions, potentially affecting our assessment of excess and obsolete inventory which could have a material effect on our results of operations. Long-Lived Assets. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We recognize an impairment loss when the net book value of such assets exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the asset. If impairment is indicated, we write the 9 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) asset down to its estimated fair value. For all periods presented, we have not recognized any impairment losses on our long-lived assets. Purchased Intangible Assets. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Purchased intangible assets with definite lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets as follows: Goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed. We evaluate our goodwill, at a minimum, on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of November 1 of each year. We last conducted our annual goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2015 and no goodwill impairment was indicated. When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may initially perform a qualitative assessment which includes a review and analysis of certain quantitative factors to estimate if a reporting unit's fair value significantly exceeds its carrying value. When the estimate of a reporting unit's fair value appears more likely than not to be less than its carrying value based on this qualitative assessment, we continue to the first step of two steps impairment test. The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to its net book value, including goodwill. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined based on a weighting of income and market approaches. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings for comparable companies. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, and future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base these fair value estimates on reasonable assumptions that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. A potential impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is lower than its net book value. The second step of the process is only performed if a potential impairment exists, and it involves determining the difference between the fair values of the reporting unit's net assets, other than goodwill, and the fair value of the reporting unit, and, if the difference is less than the net book value of goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded. In the event that we determine that the value of goodwill has become impaired, we record a charge for the amount of impairment during the fiscal quarter in which the determination is made. We operate in one reporting unit. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenditures are expensed as incurred. Stock-based Compensation. We account for stock-based compensation using the fair value method. We determine fair value for stock options awarded to employees at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to make various assumptions, including the fair value of the underlying common stock, expected future share price volatility and expected term. We determine the fair value of stock options awarded to non-employees at each vesting date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, and re-measure fair value at each reporting period until the services required under the arrangement are completed. Fair value is recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and only recognize expense for those stock-based awards expected to vest. We estimate the forfeiture rate 10 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) based on historical experience of our stock-based awards that are granted, exercised and cancelled. If the actual forfeiture rat e is materially different from our estimate, stock-based compensation expense in future periods could be significantly different from what was recorded in the current period. Concentration of Risk. Our products are primarily manufactured, assembled and tested by third-party foundries and other contractors in Asia and we are heavily dependent on a single foundry in Taiwan for the manufacture of wafers and a single contractor in the Philippines for assembly and testing of our products. We do not have long-term agreements with either of these suppliers. A significant disruption in the operations of these parties would adversely impact the production of our products for a substantial period of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables. We place substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents on deposit with a reputable, high credit quality financial institution in the United States of America. We believe that the bank that holds substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents is financially sound and, accordingly, subject to minimal credit risk. Deposits held with the bank may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. We generally do not require collateral or other security in support of accounts receivable. We periodically review the need for an allowance for doubtful accounts by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, the age of the accounts receivable balances and current economic conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay. As a result of our favorable collection experience and customer concentration, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Customer concentrations as a percentage of revenue were as follows: * less than 10% Customer concentrations as a percentage of gross accounts receivable were as follows: * less than 10% Net Loss per Share. Basic net loss per share is calculated by dividing the net loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, without consideration for potentially dilutive securities. Diluted net loss per share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted average number of common shares and potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding for the period 11 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) determined using the treasury-stock and if-converted methods. For purposes of the diluted net loss per share calculation, common stock options, restricted stock units, and warrants are considered to be potentially dilutive securities . Loss Contingencies. We are or have been subject to claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate contingent liabilities, including threatened or pending litigation, for potential losses. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceedings is considered probable and the amount can be estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based upon the best information available. For potential losses for which there is a reasonable possibility (meaning the likelihood is more than remote but less than probable) that a loss exists, we will disclose an estimate of the potential loss or range of such potential loss or include a statement that an estimate of the potential loss cannot be made. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates, which could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, creating ASC Topic 606. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 605 and aims to simplify the number of requirements to follow for revenue recognition and make revenue recognition more comparable across various entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. There are five core principles: 1. Identify the contract(s) with a customer. 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract. 3. Determine the transaction price. 4. Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract. 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. Additional considerations under this update include: accounting for costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties About an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The amendments require management to perform interim and annual assessments of an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and provide guidance on determining when and how to disclose going concern uncertainties in the financial statements. ASU 2014-15 applies to all entities and is effective for annual and interim reporting periods ending after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs, which simplifies the presentation of debt issuance costs. ASU 2015-03 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015 and interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We adopted this guidance on our consolidated financial statements with no effect in the first quarter of 2016. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, amending ASC 330. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 330 and aims to simplify the subsequent measurement of inventory. Currently, inventory can be measured at the lower of cost or market, which could result in several potential outcomes, as market could be replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less an approximately normal profit margin. The major amendments would be as follows: 1. Inventory should be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. 2. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. 3. The amendment does not apply to inventory measured under LIFO or the retail inventory method. 4. The amendment does apply to all other inventory, which includes inventory measured via FIFO or average cost. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those fiscal years), or the first quarter of 2017, and do not expect it to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, Topic 842. This ASU requires lease assets and lease liabilities arising from leases, including operating leases, to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU 2016-02 will become effective for us on January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation, ASC Topic 718: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. Under this ASU, several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions are 12 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) simplified, including: (a) income tax consequences; (b) classification of awards as either equity or liabilities; and (c) classification on the statement of cash flows. We pl an to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2017, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Topic 606. The ASU, among other things: (1) clarifies the objective of the collectability criterion for applying paragraph 606-10-25-7; (2) permits an entity to exclude amounts collected from customers for all sales (and other similar) taxes from the transaction price; (3) specifies that the measurement date for noncash consideration is contract inception; (4) provides a practical expedient that permits an entity to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications that occur before the beginning of the earliest period presented when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations; (5) clarifies that a completed contract for purposes of transition is a contract for which all (or substantially all) of the revenue was recognized under legacy GAAP before the date of initial application, and (6) clarifies that an entity that retrospectively applies the guidance in Topic 606 to each prior reporting period is not required to disclose the effect of the accounting change for the period of adoption. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, ASC Topic 230. This ASU is a clarification of how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. This update provides guidance on eight identified issues: 1) debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, 2) settlement of zero-coupon debt, 3) contingent consideration for payments, 4) proceeds from settlement of insurance claims, 5) proceeds from settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, 6) distributions from equity method investees, 7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions, and 8) separately identifiable cash flows. The amendments in this update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. Note 2. Balance Sheet Components. Accounts Receivable, Net. Accounts receivable, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Inventories. Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): For the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, we realized a benefit of $0.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively, from the sales of previously reserved products. 13 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, we realized benefits of $0.8 million and $1.0 million, respectively, from the sales of previously reserved products. Other current assets. Other current assets consisted of the following (in thousands): Property and Equipment, Net. Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $0.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $0.3 million and $1.2 million, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities. Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): Note 3. Fair Value Measurements. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. We 14 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value at each reporting peri od using a fair value hierarchy which requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowe st level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Three levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 . Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs other than quoted prices which are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instruments. Level 3. Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity and which are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had no financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Note 4. Purchased Intangible Assets. In 2012, in connection with our purchase of the serial flash memory product line assets from Atmel Corporation, we recorded $16.4 million of intangible assets. Intangible assets were as follows (in thousands): 15 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) We recorded amortization expense related to the acquisition-related intangible assets as follows (in thousands): The estimated future amortization expense of acquisition-related intangible assets subject to amortization after September 30, 2016 is as follows (in thousands): Note 5. Borrowings. Bridge Bank Loan. In October 2013, we entered into the Business Financing Agreement (the "BFA") with Bridge Bank N.A. The BFA consisted of both a revolving credit facility under which we were permitted to borrow up to 80% of eligible accounts receivable but not to exceed $7.5 million and a term loan in the amount of $9.0 million. Interest on the revolving credit facility accrued at the bank's prime rate, which under the BFA could not have been less than 3.25%, plus 1.25% while interest on the term loan accrues at the bank's prime rate plus 3%. Under the term loan, we were required to make interest only payments through April 2014 and principal payments of $300,000 monthly thereafter plus interest. Borrowings under the BFA were collateralized by all of our assets and were subject to certain financial covenants, including maintaining minimum levels of EBITDA on a quarterly basis and a certain minimum asset coverage ratio based on the ratio of unrestricted cash plus certain accounts receivable to total outstanding under the agreement. In October 2014, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants. As a result, in October 2014, we entered into the First Business Financing Modification Agreement (the "BFA Modification") under which the covenant defaults were waived. The BFA Modification (i) increased the interest rate charged on the term loan from the bank's prime rate plus 3% to the bank's prime rate plus 4% and would have declined to the bank's prime rate plus 3% upon the raising of additional equity of not less than $2.5 million, (ii) required us to continue to maintain certain minimum levels of EBITDA and asset coverage ratios, (iii) required us to maintain unrestricted cash of not less than $4.25 million until that point at which we either receive additional equity of not less than $5.0 million or maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00 (based on the ratio of EBITDA to current portion of total amounts outstanding under the BFA Modification plus period-to-date interest expense payments) for two consecutive quarters. 16 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) In addition, under the BFA the bank was paid a facility fee of $82,500 at closing. Under the BFA Modification, the bank was paid an additional facility fee of $50,000 and received a warrant to purchase 1,488 shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock. The facility fees and the value of the warrant, $0.1 million, were recorded as a debt discount and have been amortized over the life of the agreement. Amortization of debt discount was $0.1 million in 2015. Borrowings of $10.9 million under this facility were repaid in full in April 2015. Opus Bank Term Loan. In April 2015, we entered into a three-year $15.0 million credit agreement, or the term loan facility. The agreement provided for a senior secured term loan facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes including working capital, to repay certain indebtedness and for capital expenditures and other expenses. Interest accrued on outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to (a) the higher of (i) the prime rate (as publicly announced from time to time by the Wall Street Journal) and (ii) 3.25% plus (b) (i) 1.00% if our cash equivalents are greater than 125% of the outstanding principal of our borrowings under the term loan facility, or (ii) 2.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are less than or equal to 125% of such borrowings. Indebtedness we incurred under this agreement was collateralized by substantially all of our assets and the agreement contained financial covenants requiring us to maintain a monthly asset coverage ratio after September 30, 2015 of not less than 1.10 to 1.00, and quarterly adjusted EBITDA (measured on a trailing three-month basis) of $1 through September 30, 2016 and increasing to higher levels thereafter. Under the agreement, the quarterly EBITDA covenant was not applicable if the asset coverage ratio is met at all times during any particular quarter. The agreement contained customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets, merge or consolidate and make acquisitions. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. Borrowings of $14.0 million under this facility were repaid in full in July, 2016. In connection with the term loan facility, Opus Bank received a warrant to purchase 31,897 shares of Series E convertible preferred stock. Upon the completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015 the preferred stock warrants were converted into 315,282 of our common stock warrants. In addition, we paid financing costs of $0.1 million. The financing costs and the value of the warrant, $0.9 million, were recorded as a debt discount and were being amortized over the life of the agreement. Amortization of debt discount was $0.2 million for the six months ended in June 30, 2016. In connection with the repayment of this facility, the remaining unamortized debt discount of $0.4 million was recorded as interest expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Bridge Bank Term Loan On July 7, 2016, the Company entered into a business financing agreement ("Credit Facility") with Bridge Bank N.A. The Credit Facility provides for (i) a term loan of up to $18.0 million and (ii) a revolving credit line advance in the aggregate amount of the lower of (x) $2.0 million and (y) 80% of certain of the Company's receivables. The term loan made pursuant to the Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5%, plus 0.75%, and matures in June 2019. The line of credit bears interest at a rate per annual equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5% plus 0.50%, and matures in July 2018.The Company will make interest-only payments on the term loan from July 2016 through September 2016 and will make interest payments and principal payments in 33 equal monthly installments starting October 2016. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is collateralized by substantially all assets of the Company and any domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain customary exceptions. The Company paid a facility fee of $150,000 upon entry into the Credit Facility and an additional $10,000 is due on July 7, 2017 as well as $25,000 diligence fee. These fees have been recorded as a debt discount and are being amortized over the life of the agreement. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, amortization of debt discount was $26,000 and the unamortized debt discount was $149,000 as of September 30, 2016. The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Among other negative covenants, the Company may not permit the ratio of the balance of unrestricted cash deposited at the financial institution to the total amounts owed with respect to the term loan to be less than 1.15 to 1.00. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of September 30, 2016, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions. 17 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Outstanding borrowings consisted of the following (in thousands): Future repayments on outstanding borrowings (excluding unamortized discount of $149,000 as of September 30, 2016) are as follows (in thousands): Interest expense incurred under our borrowings was $0.6 million and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively. Interest expense incurred under our borrowings was $0.3 million and $0.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively. Note 6. Segment Information. We operate in one business segment, application-specific and feature-rich, ultra-low power NVM products. Our chief decision-maker, the President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates our performance based on company-wide consolidated results. Revenue is evaluated based on product category and by geographic region. Product revenue from customers is designated based on the geographic region to which the product is delivered. Revenue by geographic region was as follows (in thousands): Long-lived assets are attributed to the geographic region were they are located. Long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows (in thousands): 18 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies. Operating Leases. On November 2, 2015, the Company extended the lease for its former headquarters by six months to July 2016 by entering into that certain Amendment to Commercial Sublease, ("Amendment") dated November 2, 2015, between the Company and eGain Corporation. The Amendment provides for a base rent during the extension period of $47,087 per month. Subsequently, we extended the lease to August 31, 2016. Additionally, on November 2, 2015, the Company entered into a lease with Peterson Ridge LLC pursuant to which the Company has leased a new headquarters facility, consisting of an aggregate of approximately 34,000 square feet of space in Santa Clara, California. The initial term of the lease commenced on November 2, 2015 and is scheduled to end on July 31, 2023 and may be extended, at the Company's option, for an additional five-year period following the initial lease term. Pursuant to the lease, monthly base rental payments due under the lease are approximately $93,000 per month between August 1, 2016 and February 27, 2017, with annual increases of approximately 3% thereafter. The Company must also pay for certain other operating costs under the lease, including operating expenses, taxes, assessments, insurance, utilities, securities and property management fees. Peterson Ridge LLC is obligated to reimburse the Company for up to $2,521,051 of the Company's out-of-pocket costs associated with any tenant improvements, as defined in the lease. The Company was reimbursed for this amount during the three months ended September 30, 2016. Rent expense under operating leases was $0.4 million and $1.5 million for three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively. Rent expense under operating leases was $0.2 million and $0.6 million for three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively. Capital Leases. We have entered into various lease agreements for equipment and software under capital leases with terms of between 24 to 48 months. The equipment and software under the leases are collateral for the lease obligations and are included within property and equipment, net, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. There is no future minimum commitments for capital leases as of September 30, 2016. Obligations under capital leases are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Equipment acquired under capital leases is included in property and equipment, net and consisted of the following (in thousands): 19 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Purchase Commitments. As of September 30, 2016, we had purchase commitments with our third-party foundries of $1.5 million due within one year, $0.9 million for a licensing and development agreement, and $8.3 million in conjunction with an agreement with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. Litigation. We may be subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation, including intellectual property litigation, arising in the ordinary course of business. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes and are not predictable with assurance. We accrue amounts that we believe are adequate to address any liabilities related to legal proceedings and other loss contingencies that we believe will result in a probable loss that is reasonably estimable. Indemnification. During the normal course of business, we may make certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees which may include intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the sales of our products and indemnities for liabilities associated with the infringement of other parties' technology based upon our products. Our exposure under these indemnification provisions is generally limited to the total amount paid by a customer under the agreement. However, certain agreements include indemnification provisions that could potentially expose us to losses in excess of the amount received under the agreement. In addition, we indemnify our officers, directors and certain key employees while they are serving in good faith in such capacities. We have not recorded any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Where necessary, we accrue for losses for any known contingent liabilities, including those that may arise from indemnification provisions, when future payment is probable. Note 8. Common Stock, Common Stock Warrants and Stock Option Plan. Common Stock. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock with $0.0001 par value per share. Each holder of common stock is entitled to one vote per share. The holders of common stock are also entitled to receive dividends, when and if declared by our Board of Directors. Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had reserved shares of common stock for future issuances as follows: Upon completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015, all outstanding shares of our preferred stock were converted into 9,114,739 shares of common stock. 20 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Common Stock Warrants. The following common stock warrants were outstanding as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and were the result of a conversion of preferred stock warrants upon the completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015. Common stock warrants are exercisable at the option of the holder any time after the date of issuance into shares of our common stock. The aggregate amount of shares of common stock that would be issued is determined by dividing the exercisable price by the conversion price applicable on the date of conversion multiplied by the number of warrants exercised. Employee Benefit Plans 2007 Equity Incentive Plan. In 2007, our Board of Directors and shareholders approved the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan") under which 272,727 shares of common stock were reserved and available for the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to eligible participants. The 2007 Plan was subsequently amended to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan to 787,878 and during the year ended December 31, 2015, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan was increased to 2,651,515. Options and restricted stock awards were granted at a price per share not less than the 85% of the fair value at the date of grant or award, respectively. Restricted stock awarded to persons controlling more than 10% of our stock were granted at a price per share not less than the 100% of the fair value at the date of the award. Options that were granted to new employees generally vest over a four-year period with 25% vesting at the end of one year and the remaining to vest monthly thereafter, while options that were granted to existing employees generally vest over a four-year period. Options granted generally are exercisable up to 10 years from the date of grant. As of October 26, 2015, no shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan and all outstanding options continue to be governed and remain outstanding in accordance with their existing terms under the 2007 Plan. In addition, any shares subject to outstanding awards under the 2007 Plan that are issuable upon the exercise of options that expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full will be available for future grant and issuance under the 2015 Plan (as defined below). 2015 Equity Incentive Plan In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan. The 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became effective on the date immediately prior to the date of our initial public offering. As a result, 1,813,272 shares of common stock previously reserved but unissued under the 2007 Plan on the effective date of the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, and we ceased granting awards under our 2007 Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January of each of 2016 through 2025 by the number of shares equal to 4% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31. However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan authorizes the award of stock options, restricted stock awards, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units ("RSU's"), performance awards and stock bonuses. No person will be eligible to receive more than 2,000,000 shares in any calendar year under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan other than a new employee of ours, who will be eligible to receive no more than 4,000,000 shares under the plan in the calendar year in which the employee commences employment. The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that may be subject to awards granted to any single non-employee director pursuant to the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan in any calendar year shall not exceed 300,000. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan provides that no more than 25,000,000 shares will be issued as incentive stock options. 21 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 2015 Employee Stock Purcha se Plan In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan became effective on the date of our initial public offering. We reserved 150,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January following the first offering date by the number of shares equal to 1% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31 (rounded to the nearest whole share). However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. The aggregate number of shares issued over the term of our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will not exceed 2,250,000 shares of our common stock. Under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees will be able to acquire shares of our common stock by accumulating funds through payroll deductions. Eligible employees will be able to select a rate of payroll deduction up to 15% of their base cash compensation. The purchase price for shares of our common stock purchased under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of our common stock on (i) the first trading day of the applicable offering period and (ii) the last trading day of each purchase period in the applicable offering period. Except for the first offering period, each offering period will run for no more than six months, with purchases occurring every six months. The first offering period began upon the effective date of our IPO and was originally set to end on June 30, 2016. On May 25, 2016, the Board of Directors extended the initial offering period to July 31, 2016. Subsequent purchase periods will be 6 months in duration beginning on August 1, 2016. On July 29, 2016, we issued 68,392 shares of common stock in conjunction with the end date of the initial purchase window. No participant will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock in an amount that has a fair market value greater than $25,000, determined as of the first day of the applicable purchase period, for each calendar year in which that right is outstanding. In addition, no participant will be permitted to purchase more than 2,500 shares during any one purchase period or a lesser amount as determined by our compensation committee. Our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will continue until the earlier to occur of its termination by our Board of Directors, the issuance of all shares reserved for issuance under it or the tenth anniversary of its effective date. A summary of stock option and restricted stock units activity under the 2007 Plan and the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan is as follows: 22 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Note 9. Stock-based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation for stock options based on fair value as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of restricted stock units equals the market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. We recognize such costs as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the employee's requisite service period, which is generally four years. Our valuation assumptions are as follows: Fair value of common stock. Prior to our IPO in October 2015, we estimated the fair value of our common stock using various valuation methodologies, including valuation analyses performed by third-party valuation firms. After the initial public offering, we used the publicly quoted price as the fair value of our common stock. Risk-free interest rate. We base the risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent expected term of the options for each option group. Expected term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumption is based on the simplified method in which the expected term is equal to the average of the stock-based award's weighted-average vesting period and its contractual term. We expect to continue using the simplified method until sufficient information about historical behavior is available. Volatility. We determine volatility based on the historical stock volatilities of a group of publicly listed guideline companies over a period equal to the expected terms of the options, as we do not have sufficient trading history to determine the volatility of our common stock. Dividend yield. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend and do not currently plan to pay a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we used an expected dividend yield of zero. 23 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) The following table summarizes the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine f air value of stock options: We did not grant any stock options during the three months ended September 30, 2016. We granted 217,900 stock options during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. We granted 55,454 and 201,185 stock options during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively. The following table presents the effects of stock-based compensation for stock options, RSU's and ESPP shares during the periods (in thousands): Stock-based compensation expense capitalized to inventories was not material during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We did not realize any income tax benefit from stock option exercises in any of the periods presented due to recurring losses and valuation allowances. As of September 30, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, net of estimated forfeitures, was approximately $0.6 million, and this amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.9 years. As of September 30, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to RSU's and ESPP was $3.0 million and $58,000, respectively, and these amounts are expected to be recognized over 1.2 years and 0.3 years, respectively. Note 10. Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax provision of $15,000 and $5,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We recorded an income tax provision of $46,000 and $76,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax provision is comprised of estimates of current taxes due in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision reflects tax expense associated with state income tax, foreign taxes, uncertain tax positions and tax expense related to the recording of a deferred tax liability that results from the amortization for income tax purposes of acquisition-related goodwill. The decrease in the tax provision between 2016 and 2015 is primarily due to a decrease in foreign taxes and deferred tax expense associated with our deferred tax liability. As of September 30, 2016, our deferred tax assets are fully offset by a valuation allowance except in those jurisdictions where it is determined that a valuation allowance is not required. Accounting for income taxes provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. Based on the weight of available evidence, which includes historical operating 24 Adesto Technologies Corporation Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) performance, reported cumulative net losses since inception and difficulty in accurately forecasting our future results, we provided a full valuation allowance agai nst our net U.S. deferred tax assets. We reassess the need for our valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. If it is later determined that a portion or all of the valuation allowance is not required, it generally will be a benefit to the income tax provis ion in the period that such determination is made. We evaluate tax positions for recognition using a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, and those tax positions eligible for recognition are measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon the effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for our income tax uncertainties in all open tax years. We do not anticipate a material change in the total amount or composition of its unrecognized tax benefits within 12 months of September 30, 2016. We file tax returns in the United States for federal, California, and other states. All tax years remain open to examination for both federal and state purposes as a result of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards. We file foreign tax returns in the United Kingdom, France, China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. These tax years remain open to examination, except for 2011 and prior years in France. Note 11. Net Loss Per Share. The following outstanding common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share for the periods presented because including them would have been antidilutive: Note 12. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net consisted of the following (in thousands): Note 13. Subsequent Events. None 25 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or to our future financial or operating performance. You can generally identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "could," "intend," "target," "projects," "contemplates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. We have based these forward-looking statements primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully. The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations and should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes to audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. In this Quarterly Report, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, "Adesto," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Adesto Technologies Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory, or NVM, products. We optimize our NVM products for Internet of Things, or IoT, applications including current and next-generation Internet-connected devices in the consumer, industrial, medical and wearables markets. We combine our NVM design capabilities with proprietary intellectual property and differentiated technology platforms to deliver high-performance products that dramatically reduce the overall energy consumption of our customers' systems and extend battery life. Our products feature embedded intelligence in a small form factor and high reliability. Our revenue is derived from the sale of our NVM products, primarily our standard serial flash memory products, which represented substantially all of our revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, or Atmel. The products we acquired as part of the acquisition were approaching the end of their life cycle and experiencing annual revenue declines. While we provide support for these products, we have not invested further in their research and development. Revenue from these legacy products have declined to $0.4 million from $2.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and we expect no material revenue from these products in the future. Since the acquisition, we have invested in developing new products that are better suited for low-power, high-growth applications, accelerated development of select products and introduced new products based on the acquired technology. In 2013, we introduced the first of our next-generation DataFlash and Fusion Flash products, which have similar functionality to our legacy products, but also offer enhanced features such as ultra-deep power down and wide supply voltage range operation. Revenue from our next-generation NVM products was $11.1 million and $10.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $31.3 million and $28.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We had been exclusively developing products based on Conductive Bridging RAM, or CBRAM, technology prior to the acquisition of assets from Atmel. Since then, we have continued to invest our resources into developing and enhancing our families of CBRAM-based products, although revenue associated with these products has not been material to date. We have made and continue to make these upfront investments because we believe that the introduction of any fundamentally new semiconductor technology must necessarily go through a lengthy customer evaluation process and several cycles of improvement in the field before it can be widely adopted or generate material revenue. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, our products were sold to approximately 400 end customers. In general, we work directly with our customers to have our NVM devices designed into and qualified for their products. Although we maintain direct sales, support and development relationships with our customers, once our products are designed into a customer's product, we sell a majority of our products to those customers through distributors. We generated 66% and 68% of our revenue from distributors during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and 69% and 67% of our revenue from distributors during 26 the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Sales to three distributors generated approximately 32% and 2 5% of our revenue during the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and 37% and 25% of our revenue during the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Additionally, we derived approximately 83% and 79% of our reve nue internationally during the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and 85% and 80% of our revenue internationally during the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, the majority of which was recognized in the A sia Pacific, or APAC, region. Revenue by geography is recognized based on the region to which our products are sold, and not to where the end products are shipped. Our headquarters are located in Santa Clara, California, with additional sales operations in North America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and APAC regions. We recorded revenue of $11.2 million and $11.1million, and net losses of $4.1million and $1.1 million, for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, an d $31.6 million and $31.4million, and net losses of $9.9million and $5.1 million, for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Factors Affecting Our Performance Product adoption in new markets and applications. We optimize our products to meet the technical requirements of the emerging IoT market. The growth in the IoT market is dependent on many factors, most of which are outside of our control. Should the IoT market not develop or develop more slowly, our financial results could be adversely affected. Ability to attract and retain customers that make large orders. In 2015, our products were sold to approximately 500 end customers, of which approximately 20 generated more than half our revenue. One end customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in 2015. While we expect the composition of our customers to change over time, our business and operating results will depend on our ability to continually target new and retain existing customers that make large orders, particularly those in growth markets which are less dependent on macroeconomic conditions. Design wins with new and existing customers. We believe our solutions significantly improve the performance and potentially lower the system cost of our customers' designs, particularly if we are part of the early design phase. Accordingly, we work closely with our customers and targeted prospects to understand their product roadmaps and strategies. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success. We define a design win as the successful completion of the evaluation stage, where a customer has tested our product, verified that our product meets its requirements, qualified our NVM device for their products and placed an order for the purchase of our products. The number of our design wins has grown from 32 in 2013 to 65 in 2014 and to 135 in 2015, including 6, 63, and 125 design wins for new products, respectively. We had more than 150 new design wins during the first nine months of 2016. The revenue that we generate, if any, from each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers, internal estimates of customer demand factoring in expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential and internal estimates of overall demand based on historical trends. Pricing, product cost and gross margins of our products. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. In general, newly introduced products and products with higher performance and more features tend to be priced higher than older, more mature products. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline as products mature. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect that the average selling prices of our products will decline as they mature. In the normal course of business, we will seek to offset the effect of declining average selling prices on existing products by reducing manufacturing costs and introducing new and higher value-added products. If we are unable to maintain overall average selling prices or offset any declines in average selling prices with realized savings on product costs, our gross margin will decline. Investment in growth. We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in expanding our operations, increasing our headcount, developing our products and differentiated technologies to support our growth and expanding our infrastructure. We expect our total operating expenses to increase in the foreseeable future to meet our growth objectives. We plan to continue to invest in our sales and support operations throughout the world, with a particular focus in the near term of adding additional sales and field applications personnel in APAC to further broaden our support and coverage of our existing customer base, in addition to developing new customer relationships and generating design wins. We also intend to continue to invest additional resources in research and development to support the development of our products and differentiated technologies. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization or research and development will occur in advance of experiencing any benefits from such investments, and the return on these investments may be lower than we expect. In addition, as we invest in expanding our operations internationally, our business and results will become further subject to the risks and challenges of international operations, including higher operating expenses and the impact of legal and regulatory developments outside the United States. 27 Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue through the sale of our NVM products to OEMs and ODMs, primarily through distributors. We generated 69% and 67% of our revenue from distributors during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We sell the majority of our products to distributors and generally recognize revenue when we ship the product directly to the distributors. Because our distributors market and sell their products worldwide, our revenue by geographic location is not necessarily indicative of where our customers' product sales and design win activity occur, but rather of where their manufacturing operations occur. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs paid to our third-party manufacturers for wafer fabrication, assembly and testing of our NVM products, write-downs of inventory for excess and obsolete inventories including write-downs of inventory for products based on CBRAM technology and accruals for future losses on CBRAM wafer purchase commitments to the extent our costs exceed the market price for such products. To a lesser extent, cost of revenue also includes depreciation of test equipment and expenses relating to manufacturing support activities, including personnel-related costs, logistics, and quality assurance and shipping. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expense. Personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, are the most significant component of each of our operating expense categories. In addition, in the near term we expect to hire additional personnel, primarily in our selling and marketing functions, and increase research and development expenditures, such as prototype wafers, associated with the implementation of our CBRAM technology in a manufacturing facility in Asia. Accordingly, we expect our operating expenses to increase as we invest in these initiatives. Research and Development .Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our products and technologies. Additional research and development expenses include product prototypes, mask costs, external test and characterization expenses, depreciation, amortization of design tool software licenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and allocated overhead expenses. We also incur costs related to outsourced research and development activities. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to improve our product features, increase our portfolio of solutions and implement our CBRAM manufacturing technology in a new manufacturing facility. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for our sales, business development, marketing, and applications engineering activities, third-party sales representative commissions, promotional and other marketing expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and travel expenses. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our direct sales teams, primarily in the Asia Pacific Region, and increase our marketing activities. General and Administrative .General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, consulting expenses and professional fees. Professional fees principally consist of legal, audit, tax and accounting services. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we hire additional personnel, make improvements to our infrastructure and incur significant additional costs for the compliance requirements of operating as a public company, including higher legal, insurance and accounting expenses. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net is comprised of interest income (expense) and other income (expense). Interest expense consists of interest on our outstanding debt. Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in fair value of our preferred stock warrant 28 liability and foreign exchange gains or losses. Our foreign currency exchange gains and losses relate to transactions an d asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We expect our foreign currency gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of U.S. federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Comparison of the Three and Nine months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands, except percentage data): Revenue Revenue increased by $37,000, or less than 1%, during the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was due primarily to an increase in sales of our Fusion Flash products. During the first three months of 2016, we began to see a slowdown in customer orders that we believe is due to reduced consumer demand in our end markets. This slowdown may persist in future periods. Revenue increased by $0.2 million, or 1%, during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was due primarily to an increase in sales of our Data Flash and Fusion Flash products offset by reductions in sales of our Standard Flash products. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue decreased by $0.3 million, or 5%, during the three months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to a reduction in direct manufacturing costs as a result of a favorable product mix towards our Fusion Flash products. Cost of revenue decreased by $1.8 million, or 10%, during the nine months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to a reduction in direct manufacturing costs. Gross profit increased by $0.3 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to improvements in our cost structure as a result of a favorable product mix and a reduction in direct manufacturing expenses. 29 Gross profit increased by $2.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due to improvements in our cost structure, favorable product mix, and an increase in sales of our Data Flash and Fusion Flash products. Operating Expenses Research and Development .Research and development ("R&D") expense increased by $1.2million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, due to personnel-related expenses of $0.3 million, an increase in materials and supplies of $0.6 million, an increase of outsourced R&D of $0.1 million, and an increase of facilities costs of $0.2 million.R&D expense increased by $3.2million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015, due to personnel-related expenses of $1.0 million, an increase in materials, supplies and third party project expenses of $1.0 million, an increase in expenses for outsourced R&D activities, which consisted primarily of fees for professional consultants, of $0.5 million, and an increase in facilities expense of $0.7 million. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense increased by $0.7million during the three months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, due to personnel-related expenses of $0.6 million and an increase of facilities expense of $0.1 million. Sales and marketing expense increased by $2.1million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015, due to personnel-related expenses of $1.5 million, an increase in travel expenses of $0.1 million, an increase in outside services of $0.1 million, and an increase in facilities expenses of $0.4 million. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.7million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September30, 2015, mainly due to an increase in personnel-related expenses of $0.6 million and facilities expenses of $0.1 million. General and administrative expenses increased by $2.4million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September30, 2015, mainly due to increases in personnel-related expenses of $1.7 million, public company-related costs of $0.3 million, and facilities related expenses of $0.4 million. Gain from settlement with a former foundry supplier. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we recognized a non-cash gain of $2.0 million resulting from settlement of a disputed liability with a former foundry supplier. We did not recognize a similar gain or loss during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense, net increased by $0.2 million and $0.2 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, due to a write off of unamortized debt discount associated with the repayment in full of our Opus Bank loan. 30 Other income (expense), net decreased by $0.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 due primarily to the recording of a reduction in our liability associated with p referred stock warrants during the three months ended September 30, 2015. Other income (expense), net decreased by $0.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 due primarily to the recording of a reduction in our liability associated with preferred stock warrants along with the settlement with Atmel regarding certain funds held in escrow in connection with serial flash assets purchased from Atmel during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes increased by $10,000 and decreased by $30,000 during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015. Both the three months and nine months changes are related to our foreign subsidiaries due to a reduction in tax expense related to our foreign subsidiaries and deferred tax expense related to our deferred tax liability. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily with gross proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $78.5 million of convertible preferred stock, $22.5 million of term debt associated with the acquisition of the certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, net proceeds from our IPO on October 30, 2015 of $22.1 million and borrowings under our current Credit Facility of $19.9 million. Our principal source of liquidity as of September 30, 2016 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $21.4 million. We did not have any borrowing capacity available under our term loan facility or credit line as of September 30, 2016. Our outstanding borrowings under both facilities as of September 30, 2016 were $20.0 million. Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are held in the United States. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs over the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our spending to support research and development activities, the timing and cost of establishing additional sales and marketing capabilities, the introduction of new and enhanced products and our costs to implement new manufacturing technologies. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any additional debt financing obtained by us in the future could also involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, if we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary source of cash from operating activities has been from cash collections from our customers. We expect cash inflows from operating activities to be affected by increases in sales and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel costs, investments in research and development and sales and marketing, and inventory procurement. Net cash used in operating activities for the periods presented consisted of net losses adjusted for certain noncash items 31 and changes in working capital. Within changes in working capital, changes in accounts rece ivable, inventory and accounts payable generally account for the largest adjustments, as we typically use more cash to fund accounts receivable and build inventory as our business grows. Increases in accounts payable typically provides more cash as we do m ore business with our contract foundries and other third parties, depending on the timing of payments. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, cash used in operating activities was $5.4 million, primarily from a net loss of $9.9 million and the impact of a $2.0 million non-cash gain resulting from a settlement with a former foundry supplier partially offset by non-cash charges of $2.5 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $1.6 million related to depreciation and amortization, $0.6 million related to the amortization of debt discount along with a decrease in accounts receivable of $1.5 million and an increase in account payable and accruals of $0.2 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015, cash used in operating activities was $4.2 million, primarily from a net loss of $5.1 million and net changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $1.2 million partially offset by non-cash charges of $2.1 million primarily related to depreciation and amortization. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of purchases of property and equipment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to support continued growth of our business. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, cash used in investing activities was $2.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, due to purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements related to our new headquarters facility in Santa Clara, CA. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities primarily include proceeds and payments related to our term loans and our credit facility. During nine months ended September 30, 2016, cash provided by financing activities was $6.1 million due to $17.8 million in net proceeds from a new Bridge Bank term loan, $2.0 million in proceeds from a new Bridge Bank line of credit, $0.2 million from the issuance of common stock offset by the repayment of $14.0 million outstanding on the Opus Bank term loan. During nine months ended September 30, 2015, cash provided by financing activities was $4.0 million due to $14.9 million of proceeds from the Opus Bank term loan partially offset by repayments of $10.9 million on the line of credit and term loan held by Bridge Bank. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purpose. Credit Facility In April 2015, we entered into a three-year $15.0 million credit agreement, or the term loan facility. The agreement provided for a senior secured term loan facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes including working capital, to repay certain indebtedness and for capital expenditures and other expenses. Interest accrued on outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to (a) the higher of (i) the prime rate (as publicly announced from time to time by the Wall Street Journal) and (ii) 3.25% plus (b) (i) 1.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are greater than 125% of the outstanding principal of our borrowings under the term loan facility, or (ii) 2.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are less than or equal to 125% of such borrowings. Indebtedness incurred under this agreement was collateralized by substantially all of our assets and contained financial covenants requiring us to maintain a monthly asset coverage ratio of not less than 1.10 to 1.00, and quarterly adjusted EBITDA (measured on a trailing three-month basis) of $1 through September 30, 2016 and increasing to higher levels thereafter. Under the agreement, the quarterly EBITDA covenant was not applicable if the asset coverage ratio is met at all times during any particular quarter. The agreement contained customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets, merge or consolidate and make acquisitions. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. On July 7, 2016, we terminated the term loan facility. In connection with termination and new 32 borrowings under the new Credit Facility (as defined below), we paid off all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest, and fees under the term loan facility On July 7, 2016, we entered into a business financing agreement ("Credit Facility") with a financial institution. The Credit Facility provides for (i) a term loan of up to $18.0 million and (ii) a revolving credit line advance in the aggregate amount of the lower of (x) $2.0 million and (y) 80% of certain of our receivables. The term loan made pursuant to the Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the prime rate and 3.5%, plus 0.75%, and matures in June 2019. The line of credit bears interest at a rate per annual equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5% plus 0.50%, and matures in July 2018. We will make interest-only payments on the term loan from July 2016 through September 2016 and will make principal and interest payments in 33 equal monthly installments starting October 2016. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is collateralized by substantially all of our assets, subject to certain customary exceptions. We paid a facility fee of $150,000 upon entry into the Credit Facility and an additional $10,000 on July 7, 2017 as well as a $25,000 diligence fee. The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Among other negative covenants, we may not permit the ratio of the balance of unrestricted cash deposited at the financial institution to the total amounts owed with respect to the term loan to be less than 1.15 to 1.00. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of September 30, 2016, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 30, 2016: (1) Operating leases primarily relate to our leases of office space with terms expiring through July 31, 2023. (2) Represents outstanding purchase orders for wafer commitments that we have placed with our suppliers as of September 30, 2016. (3) Financing arrangements represent debt maturities under our Credit Facility with Bridge Bank. (4) Represents our commitments under the CBRAM Joint Development and Manufacturing Agreement executed on February 18, 2016 with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. (5) Represents our commitments under the Licensing and Development Agreement executed on April 21, 2016 with Semitech Semiconductor Pty, Ltd. As of September 30, 2016, we had a liability of $11,000 for uncertain tax positions. Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Our management and independent registered public accounting firm did not and were not required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013 in accordance with the provisions of the JOBS Act. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in the financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 30, 2016. 33Item1. Financial Statements ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands, except share and per share data) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Organization and Nature of Operations. Adesto Technologies Corporation (together with its subsidiaries; "Adesto", "we", "our", "us" or the "Company") was incorporated in the state of California in January 2006 and reincorporated in Delaware in October 2015. We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory ("NVM") products. Our corporate headquarters are located in Santa Clara, California. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation and our financial results include the operating results of those assets from the date of acquisition. Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to complete annual financial statements. In the opinion of our management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company and its results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented have been included. Operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2017, for any other interim period or for any other future year. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date, but does not include all of the disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2017. The consolidated financial statements include the results of our operations, and the operations of our wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies described in Note 1, Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 that have had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes, except as described below. Use of Estimates. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate those estimates, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts, reserves for sales, warranty accrual, inventory write-downs, valuation of long-lived assets, including property and equipment and identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, loss on purchase commitments, valuation of deferred taxes and contingencies. In addition, we use assumptions when employing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of stock options granted. We base our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, when these carrying values are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable Allowances. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the selling price is fixed or determinable, transfer of title occurs, and the collectibility of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Due to the historical immaterial level of product returns under warranty, we do not record a reserve for estimated returns under warranty at the time of revenue recognition. 7 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Generally, we meet product sale revenue recognition conditions upon shipment because, in most cases, title and risk of loss passes to the customer at that time. In addition, we estimate and record provision s for future returns and other charges against revenue at the time of shipment, consistent with the terms of sale. We sell products to distributors at the price listed in our distributor price book. At the time of sale, we record a sales reserve for ship f rom stock and debits ("SSDs"), stock rotation rights and any special programs approved by management. We offset the sales reserve against recorded revenues, producing the revenue amount reported in our consolidated statements of operations. The market price for our products can differ significantly from the book price at which we sold the product to the distributor. When the market price of a particular distributor's sales opportunity to their customers would result in low or negative margins for the distributor, as compared to our original book price, we negotiate SSDs with the distributor. Management analyzes our SSD history to develop current SSD rates that form the basis of the SSD revenue reserve recorded each period. We obtain the historical SSD rates from the distributor's records and our internal records. We typically grant payment terms of between 30 and 60 days to our customers. Our customers generally pay within those terms. Distributors are invoiced for shipments at listed book price. When the distributors pay the invoice, they may claim debits for SSDs previously authorized by us when appropriate. Once claimed, we process the requests against prior authorizations and adjust reserves previously established for that customer. The revenue we record for sales to our distributors is net of estimated provisions for these programs. Determining net revenue requires significant judgments and estimates on our part. We base our estimates on historical experience rates, the levels of inventory held by our distributors, current trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there is a risk actual amounts may differ materially from our estimates. Our consolidated financial condition and operating results depend on our ability to make reliable estimates. We believe that such estimates are reasonable. We also monitor collectibility of accounts receivable primarily through review of our accounts receivable aging. When facts and circumstances indicate the collection of specific amounts or from specific customers is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts. Product Warranty. Our products are sold with a limited warranty for a period of one year, warranting that the product conforms to specifications and is free from material defects in design, materials and workmanship. To date, we have had insignificant returns of any defective production parts. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded $250,000 for a specific potential warranty claim. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, approximately $41,000 has been incurred relating to this potential warranty claim. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the warranty accrual was $209,000, and is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Foreign Currency Translation. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency. In consolidation, we translate assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date. We translate revenue and expense accounts at the average exchange rates during the period in which the transaction takes place. Net losses from foreign currency translation of assets and liabilities were $22,000 and $13,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and are included in the cumulative translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, a component of stockholders' equity. Net gains arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency were $13,000 and $22,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively and are included in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Concentration of Risk. Our products are primarily manufactured, assembled and tested by third-party foundries and other contractors in Asia and we are heavily dependent on a single foundry in Taiwan for the manufacture of wafers and a single contractor in the Philippines for assembly and testing of our products. We do not have long-term agreements with either of these suppliers. A significant disruption in the operations of these parties would adversely impact the production of our products for a substantial period of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 8 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables. We place substantially all of our cash and cash equ ivalents on deposit with a reputable, high credit quality financial institution in the United States of America. We believe that the bank that holds substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents is financially sound and, accordingly, subject to minima l credit risk. Deposits held with the bank may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. We generally do not require collateral or other security in support of accounts receivable. We periodically review the need for an allowance for doubtful accounts by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, the age of the accounts receivable balances and current economic conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay. As a result of our favorable collection experience and customer concentration, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Customer concentrations as a percentage of revenue were as follows: Customer concentrations as a percentage of gross accounts receivable were as follows: Recent Accounting Pronouncements. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, creating Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 606. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 605 and aims to simplify the number of requirements to follow for revenue recognition and make revenue recognition more comparable across various entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. There are five core principles: 1. Identify the contract(s) with a customer. 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract. 3. Determine the transaction price. 4. Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract. 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. Additional considerations under this update include: accounting for costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, amending ASC 330. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 330 and aims to simplify the subsequent measurement of inventory. Currently, inventory can be measured at the lower of cost or market, which could result in several potential outcomes, as market could be replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less an approximately normal profit margin. The major amendments would be as follows: 1. Inventory should be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. 2. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. 3. The amendment does not apply to inventory measured under LIFO or the retail inventory method. 4. The amendment does apply to all other inventory, which includes inventory measured via FIFO or average cost. We adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2017 and it did not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, Topic 842. This ASU requires lease assets and lease liabilities arising from leases, including operating leases, to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU 2016-02 will become effective for us on January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 9 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Co mpensation Stock Compensation, ASC Topic 718: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. Under this ASU, several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions are simplified, including: (a) income tax consequences; (b ) classification of awards as either equity or liabilities; and (c) classification on the statement of cash flows. We adopted this guidance effective January 1 , 2017 . We elected to continue to account for forfeitures on an estimated basis. We have elected to present the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows on a prospective transition method and no prior periods have been adjusted. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Topic 606. The ASU, among other things: (1) clarifies the objective of the collectability criterion for applying paragraph 606-10-25-7; (2) permits an entity to exclude amounts collected from customers for all sales (and other similar) taxes from the transaction price; (3) specifies that the measurement date for noncash consideration is contract inception; (4) provides a practical expedient that permits an entity to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications that occur before the beginning of the earliest period presented when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations; (5) clarifies that a completed contract for purposes of transition is a contract for which all (or substantially all) of the revenue was recognized under legacy GAAP before the date of initial application, and (6) clarifies that an entity that retrospectively applies the guidance in Topic 606 to each prior reporting period is not required to disclose the effect of the accounting change for the period of adoption. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, ASC Topic 230. This ASU is a clarification of how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. This update provides guidance on eight identified issues: 1) debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, 2) settlement of zero-coupon debt, 3) contingent consideration for payments, 4) proceeds from settlement of insurance claims, 5) proceeds from settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, 6) distributions from equity method investees, 7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions, and 8) separately identifiable cash flows. The amendments in this update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. This ASU requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset upon transfer other than inventory, eliminating the current recognition exception. Prior to this ASU, GAAP prohibited the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for the intra-entity asset transfers until the asset was sold to an outside party. For public business entities, the amendments in the ASU are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and should be applied on a modified retrospective basis though a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. The amendments in the update require that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. This ASU will become effective for public business entities on December 15, 2017. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350). The objective of this ASU is to simplify how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Instead, under this ASU, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill 10 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) allocated to that reporting unit. Additionally, an entity should consider income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting uni t when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. The amendments in this update are effective for a public business entity that is a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filer for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. The amendments should be applied on a prospective basis. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017 . We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements Note 2. Balance Sheet Components. Accounts Receivable, Net. Accounts receivable, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Inventories. Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, we realized a benefit of $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, from the sales of previously reserved products. Inventory write-downs were primarily associated with products built in excess of customer demand which resulted in excess inventory levels, legacy products for which no demand exists and lower of cost or market write-downs associated with CBRAM products for which costs exceeded market value. Property and Equipment, Net. Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): The Company incurs costs for the fabrication of masks used by its foundry partners to manufacture its products. Beginning the first fiscal quarter of 2017, the Company capitalizes mask costs that are expected to be utilized in production manufacturing as the 11 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Company's product development process has become more predictable and thus supports capitalization of the mask. The capitalized mask costs beg in depreciating to cos t of revenue once the products go into production. Depreciation is straight lined over athreeyear period which is the expected useful life of the mask. Previously mask sets were expensed to research and development. Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was $0.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities. Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): Note 3. Fair Value Measurements. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. We measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value at each reporting period using a fair value hierarchy which requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Three levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2. Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs other than quoted prices which are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instruments. Level 3. Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity and which are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 12 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows : As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had no financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Note 4. Intangible Assets, net. In 2012, in connection with our purchase of the serial flash memory product line assets from Atmel Corporation, we recorded $16.4 million of intangible assets. Intangible assets, net were as follows (in thousands): We recorded amortization expense related to the acquisition-related intangible assets as follows (in thousands): 13 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) The estimated future amortization expense of acquisition-related intangible assets subject to amortization after March 31, 2017 is as follows (in thousands): Note 5. Borrowings. Opus Bank Term Loan. In April 2015, we entered into a three-year $15.0 million credit agreement, or the term loan facility. The agreement provided for a senior secured term loan facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes including working capital, to repay certain indebtedness and for capital expenditures and other expenses. Interest accrued on outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to (a) the higher of (i) the prime rate (as publicly announced from time to time by the Wall Street Journal) and (ii) 3.25% plus (b) (i) 1.00% if our cash equivalents are greater than 125% of the outstanding principal of our borrowings under the term loan facility, or (ii) 2.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are less than or equal to 125% of such borrowings. Indebtedness we incurred under this agreement was collateralized by substantially all of our assets and the agreement contained financial covenants requiring us to maintain a monthly asset coverage ratio after September 30, 2015 of not less than 1.10 to 1.00, and quarterly adjusted EBITDA (measured on a trailing three-month basis) of $1 through September 30, 2016 and increasing to higher levels thereafter. Under the agreement, the quarterly EBITDA covenant was not applicable if the asset coverage ratio is met at all times during any particular quarter. The agreement contained customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limited or restricted our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets, merge or consolidate and make acquisitions. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could have been required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. Borrowings of $14.0 million under this facility were repaid in full in July 2016. In connection with the term loan facility, Opus Bank received a warrant to purchase 31,897 shares of Series E convertible preferred stock. Upon the completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015 the preferred stock warrants were converted into 315,282 of our common stock warrants. In addition, we paid financing costs of $0.1 million. The financing costs and the value of the warrant, $1.0 million, were recorded as a debt discount and were being amortized over the life of the agreement. Amortization of debt discount was $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In connection with the repayment of this facility, the remaining unamortized debt discount of $0.4 million was recorded as interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Western Alliance Bank Term Loan. On July 7, 2016, the Company entered into a business financing agreement ("Credit Facility") with Western Alliance Bank. The Credit Facility provides for (i) a term loan of up to $18.0 million and (ii) a revolving credit line advance in the aggregate amount of the lower of (x) $2.0 million and (y) 80% of certain of the Company's receivables. The term loan made pursuant to the Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5%, plus 0.75% (4.75% on March 31, 2017), and matures in June 2019. The line of credit bears interest at a rate per annual equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5% plus 0.50% (4.5% on March 31, 2017), and matures in July 2018.The Company made interest-only payments on the term loan from July 2016 through September 2016 and will make interest payments and principal payments in 33 equal monthly installments starting October 2016. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is collateralized by substantially all assets of the Company and any domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain customary exceptions. The Company paid a facility fee of $150,000 as well as a $25,000 diligence fee upon entry into the Credit Facility and an additional $10,000 is due on July 7, 2017. These fees have been recorded as a debt discount and are 14 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) being amortized over the life of the agreement. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , amort ization of debt discount was $24 ,000 and the unamortized debt discount was $9 9,000 as of March 31, 2017 . The Credit Facility contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Among other negative covenants, the Company may not permit the ratio of the balance of unrestricted cash deposited at the financial institution to the total amounts owed with respect to the term loan to be less than 1.15 to 1.00. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of March 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions. Outstanding borrowings consisted of the following (in thousands): Future repayments on outstanding borrowings (excluding unamortized discount of $99,000 as of March 31, 2017) are as follows (in thousands): Interest expense incurred under our borrowings was $223,000 and $258,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Note 6. Segment Information. We operate in one business segment, application-specific and feature-rich, ultra-low power NVM products. Our chief decision-maker, the President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates our performance based on company-wide consolidated results. Revenue is evaluated based on product category and by geographic region. Product revenue from customers is designated based on the geographic region to which the product is delivered. Revenue by geographic region was as follows (in thousands): 15 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Long-lived assets are attributed to the geographic region were they are located. Long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows (in thousands): Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies. Operating Leases. The Company leases office facilities under various non-cancelable operating lease agreements. Certain lease agreements contain free or escalating rent payment provisions. The Company recognizes rent expense under such leases on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease with the difference between the expense and the payments recorded as deferred rent on the consolidated balance sheets. Any reimbursements by the landlord for tenant improvements are considered lease incentives, the balance of which is recorded as a lease incentive obligation within deferred rent on the consolidated balance sheets, and amortized as a reduction of rent expense over the life of the lease. Lease renewal periods are considered on a lease-by-lease basis in determining the lease term. On November 2, 2015, the Company extended the lease for its headquarters by six months to July 2016 by entering into that certain Amendment to Commercial Sublease ("Amendment"), dated November 2, 2015, between the Company and eGain Corporation. The Amendment provides for a base rent during the extension period of $47,000 per month. Subsequently, we extended the lease to August 31, 2016. Additionally, on November 2, 2015, the Company entered into a lease with Peterson Ridge LLC pursuant to which the Company leased a new headquarters facility, consisting of an aggregate of approximately 34,000 square feet of space in Santa Clara, California. The initial term of the lease commenced on November 2, 2015 and is scheduled to end on July 31, 2023 and may be extended, at the Company's option, for an additional five-year period following the initial lease term. Pursuant to the lease, monthly base rental payments due under the lease are expected to be approximately $93,000 per month between August 1, 2016 and February 27, 2017, with annual increases of approximately 3% thereafter. The Company must also pay for certain other operating costs under the lease, including operating expenses, taxes, assessments, insurance, utilities, securities and property management fees. Peterson Ridge LLC is obligated to reimburse the Company for up to approximately $2.5 million of the Company's out-of-pocket costs associated with any tenant improvements, as defined in the lease. The Company was reimbursed for this amount during the year ended December 31, 2016. As of March 31, 2017, the Company recorded a lease incentive obligation of $2.3 million in deferred rent on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Rent expense under operating leases was $0.2 million and $0.5 million for three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Purchase Commitments. As of March 31, 2017, we had purchase commitments with our third-party foundries of $3.0 million due within one year, $0.8 million for a licensing and development agreement, and $7.9 million in conjunction with an agreement with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. Litigation. Although we are not currently subject to any litigation, and no litigation is currently threatened against us, we may be subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation, including intellectual property litigation, arising in the ordinary course of business. Such matters 16 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes and are not predictable with assurance. We accrue amounts that we believe are adequate to address any liabilities related to legal proceedings and other loss contingencies that we believe wi ll result in a probable loss that is reasonably estimable . Indemnification. During the normal course of business, we may make certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees which may include intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the sales of our products and indemnities for liabilities associated with the infringement of other parties' technology based upon our products. Our exposure under these indemnification provisions is generally limited to the total amount paid by a customer under the agreement. However, certain agreements include indemnification provisions that could potentially expose us to losses in excess of the amount received under the agreement. In addition, we indemnify our officers, directors and certain key employees while they are serving in good faith in such capacities. We have not recorded any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Where necessary, we accrue for losses for any known contingent liabilities, including those that may arise from indemnification provisions, when future payment is probable. Note 8. Common Stock, Common Stock Warrants and Stock Option Plan. Common Stock. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock with $0.0001 par value per share as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Each holder of common stock is entitled to one vote per share. As of March 31, 2017, no dividends have been declared by the Board of Directors, however, the holders of common stock are also entitled to receive dividends, when and if declared by our Board of Directors. Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had reserved shares of common stock for future issuances as follows: Common Stock Warrants. The following common stock warrants were outstanding as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 and were the result of a conversion of preferred stock warrants upon the completion of our initial public offering ("IPO") on October 30, 2015. 17 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Common stock warrants are exercisable at the option of the holder any time after the date of issuance into shares of our common stock. The aggregate amount of shares of common stock that would be issued is determined by dividing the exercisable price by th e conversion price applicable on the date of conversion multiplied by the number of warrants exercised. Employee Benefit Plans. 2007 Equity Incentive Plan. In 2007, our Board of Directors and shareholders approved the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan") under which 272,727 shares of common stock were reserved and available for the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to eligible participants. The 2007 Plan was subsequently amended to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan to 787,878 and during the year ended December 31, 2015, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan was increased to 2,651,515. Options and restricted stock awards were granted at a price per share not less than the 85% of the fair value at the date of grant or award, respectively. Restricted stock awarded to persons controlling more than 10% of our stock were granted at a price per share not less than the 100% of the fair value at the date of the award. Options that were granted to new employees generally vest over a four-year period with 25% vesting at the end of one year and the remaining to vest monthly thereafter, while options that were granted to existing employees generally vest over a four-year period. Options granted generally are exercisable up to 10 years from the date of grant. As of October 26, 2015, no shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan and all outstanding options would continue to be governed and remain outstanding in accordance with their existing terms under the 2007 Plan. In addition, any shares subject to outstanding awards under the 2007 Plan that are issuable upon the exercise of options that expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full will be available for future grant and issuance under the 2015 Plan (as defined below). 2015 Equity Incentive Plan. In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan. The 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became effective on the date immediately prior to the date of our IPO. As a result, 1,813,272 shares of common stock previously reserved but unissued under the 2007 Plan on the effective date of the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, and we ceased granting awards under our 2007 Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January of each of 2016 through 2025 by the number of shares equal to 4% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31. However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan authorizes the award of stock options, restricted stock awards, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units ("RSU's"), performance awards and stock bonuses. No person will be eligible to receive more than 2,000,000 shares in any calendar year under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan other than a new employee of ours, who will be eligible to receive no more than 4,000,000 shares under the plan in the calendar year in which the employee commences employment. The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that may be subject to awards granted to any one non-employee director pursuant to the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan in any calendar year shall not exceed 300,000. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan provides that no more than 25,000,000 shares will be issued as incentive stock options. 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan became effective on the date of our IPO. We reserved 150,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January following the first offering date by the number of shares equal to 1% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31 (rounded to the nearest whole share). However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. The aggregate number of shares issued over the term of our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will not exceed 2,250,000 shares of our common stock. Under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees will be able to acquire shares of our common stock by accumulating funds through payroll deductions. Eligible employees will be able to select a rate of payroll deduction up to 15% of their base cash compensation. The purchase price for shares of our common stock purchased under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of our common stock on (i) the first trading day of the applicable offering 18 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) period and (ii) the las t trading day of each purchase period in the applicable offering period. Except for the first offering period, each offering period will run for no more than six months, with purchases occurring every six months. The first offering period began upon the ef fective date of our IPO and was originally set to end on June 30, 2016. On May 25, 2016, the Board of Directors extended the initial offering period to July 31, 2016. Subsequent purchase periods will be 6 months in duration beginning on August 1, 2016. On July 29, 2016, we issued 68,392 shares of common stock in conjunction with the end date of the initial purchase window. On January 31, 2017, we issued 50,917 shares of common stock in conjunction with the end date of the most recent purchase window. No participant will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock in an amount that has a fair market value greater than $25,000, determined as of the first day of the applicable purchase period, for each calendar year in which that right is outstanding. In addition, no participant will be permitted to purchase more than 2,500 shares during any one purchase period or a lesser amount as determined by our compensation committee. Our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will continue until the earlier to occur of its termination by our Board of Directors, the issuance of all shares reserved for issuance under it or the tenth anniversary of its effective date. A summary of stock option and restricted stock units activity under the 2007 Plan and the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan is as follows: 19 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Note 9. Stock-based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation based on fair value as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. We recognize such costs as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the employee's requisite service period, which is generally four years. Our valuation assumptions are as follows: Fair value of common stock. Prior to our IPO in October 2015, we estimated the fair value of our common stock using various valuation methodologies, including valuation analyses performed by third-party valuation firms. After the IPO, we used the publicly quoted price as the fair value of our common stock. Risk-free interest rate. We base the risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent expected term of the options for each option group. Expected term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumption is based on the simplified method in which the expected term is equal to the average of the stock-based award's weighted-average vesting period and its contractual term. We expect to continue using the simplified method until sufficient information about historical behavior is available. Volatility. We determine volatility based on the historical stock volatilities of a group of publicly listed guideline companies over a period equal to the expected terms of the options, as we do not have sufficient trading history to determine the volatility of our common stock. Dividend yield. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend and do not currently plan to pay a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we used an expected dividend yield of zero. The following table summarizes the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine fair value of stock options: The weighted-average grant date fair value of the options granted under the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan as calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model was $2.59 per share for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The following table presents the effects of stock-based compensation for stock options, RSU's, and ESPP (in thousands): Stock-based compensation expense capitalized to inventories was not material during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. We did not realize any income tax benefit from stock option exercises in any of the periods presented due to recurring losses and valuation allowances. 20 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) As of March 31, 2017, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, net of estimated forfeitures, was approximately $1 . 7 million, and this amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 3 . 2 years. As of March 31, 2017, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to RSU's and ESPP was $1.7 million and $51,000, respectively, and these amounts are expected to be recognized over 0.8 years and 0.3 years, respectively. Note 10. Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax provision of $27,000 and $14,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The income tax provision is comprised of estimates of current taxes due in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision reflects tax expense associated with state income tax, foreign taxes, uncertain tax positions and tax expense related to the recording of a deferred tax liability that results from the amortization for income tax purposes of acquisition-related goodwill. The decrease in the tax provision between 2017 and 2016 is primarily due to a decrease in foreign taxes and deferred tax expense associated with our deferred tax liability. As of March 31, 2017, our deferred tax assets are fully offset by a valuation allowance except in those jurisdictions where it is determined that a valuation allowance is not required. Accounting for income taxes provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. Based on the weight of available evidence, which includes historical operating performance, reported cumulative net losses since inception and difficulty in accurately forecasting our future results, we provided a full valuation allowance against our net U.S. deferred tax assets. We reassess the need for our valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. If it is later determined that a portion or all of the valuation allowance is not required, it generally will be a benefit to the income tax provision in the period that such determination is made. We evaluate tax positions for recognition using a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, and those tax positions eligible for recognition are measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon the effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for our income tax uncertainties in all open tax years. We do not anticipate a material change in the total amount or composition of its unrecognized tax benefits within 12 months of March 31, 2017. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. Due to our net operating loss and credit carryforwards, our income tax returns generally remain subject to examination by federal, state and international authorities. Note 11. Net Loss Per Share. The following outstanding common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share for the periods presented because including them would have been antidilutive: 21 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Note 12 . Related Party Transactions . The Company purchases certain wafers from Altis Semiconductor S.N.C., which was acquired by X-FAB Silicon Foundries in 2016, who is a shareholder of the Company. We made no payments during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and $314,000 during the year ended December 31, 2016. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, invoices totaling $195,000 and $195,000, respectively, were included within accounts payable on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Note 13. Subsequent Events. None 22 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or to our future financial or operating performance. You can generally identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "could," "intend," "target," "projects," "contemplates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. We have based these forward-looking statements primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully. The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations and should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes to audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. In this Quarterly Report, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, "Adesto," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Adesto Technologies Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory, or NVM, products. We optimize our NVM products for Internet of Things, or IoT, applications including current and next-generation Internet-connected devices in the consumer, industrial, medical and wearables markets. We combine our NVM design capabilities with proprietary intellectual property and differentiated technology platforms to deliver high-performance products that dramatically reduce the overall energy consumption of our customers' systems and extend battery life. Our products feature embedded intelligence in a small form factor and high reliability. Our revenue is derived from the sale of our NVM products, primarily our standard serial flash memory products, which represented substantially all of our revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, or Atmel. The products we acquired as part of the acquisition were approaching the end of their life cycle and experiencing annual revenue declines. While we provide support for these products, we have not invested further in their research and development. Revenue from these legacy products have declined to $71,000 from $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively and we expect no material revenue from these products in the future. Since the acquisition, we have invested in developing new products that are better suited for low-power, high-growth applications, accelerated development of select products and introduced new products based on the acquired technology. In 2013, we introduced the first of our next-generation DataFlash and Fusion Flash products, which have similar functionality to our legacy products, but also offer enhanced features such as ultra-deep power down and wide supply voltage range operation. Revenue from our next-generation NVM products were $11.2 million and $9.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We had been exclusively developing products based on Conductive Bridging RAM, or CBRAM, technology prior to the acquisition of assets from Atmel. Since then, we have continued to invest our resources into developing and enhancing our families of CBRAM-based products, although revenue associated with these products has not been material to date. We have made and continue to make these upfront investments because we believe that the introduction of any fundamentally new semiconductor technology must necessarily go through a lengthy customer evaluation process and several cycles of improvement in the field before it can be widely adopted or generate material revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our products were sold to more than 500 end customers. In general, we work directly with our customers to have our NVM devices designed into and qualified for their products. Although we maintain direct sales, support and development relationships with our customers, once our products are designed into a customer's product, we sell a majority of our products to those customers through distributors. We generated 75% and 72% of our revenue from distributors during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Sales to three distributors generated approximately 40% and 41% of our revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Additionally, we derived approximately 75% and 23 83 % of our revenue internationally during the three months ended March 31, 201 7 and 201 6 , respective ly, the majority of which was recognized in the Asia Pacific, or APAC, region. Revenue by geography is recognized based on the region to which our products are sold, and not to where the end products are shipped . We employ a fabless manufacturing strategy and use market-leading suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging. This strategy significantly reduces the capital investment that would otherwise by required to operate manufacturing facilities of our own. Factors Affecting Our Performance Product adoption in new markets and applications . We optimize our products to meet the technical requirements of the emerging IoT market. The growth in the IoT market is dependent on many factors, most of which are outside of our control. Should the IoT market not develop or develop more slowly, our financial results could be adversely affected. Ability to attract and retain customers that make large orders .In 2016, our products were sold to more than 500 end customers, of which approximately 20 generated more than half our revenue. One end customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in 2016 and 2015 and the first three months of 2017. No end customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in 2014. While we expect the composition of our customers to change over time, our business and operating results will depend on our ability to continually target new and retain existing customers that make large orders, particularly those in growth markets which are less dependent on macroeconomic conditions. Design wins with new and existing customers .We believe our solutions significantly improve the performance and potentially lower the system cost of our customers' designs, particularly if we are part of the early design phase. Accordingly, we work closely with our customers and targeted prospects to understand their product roadmaps and strategies. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success. We define a design win as the successful completion of the evaluation stage, where a customer has tested our product, verified that our product meets its requirements and qualified our NVM device for their products. The number of our design wins has grown from 65 in 2014 to 135 in 2015 and to 296 in 2016, including 63, 125 and 294 design wins for new products, respectively. The revenue that we generate, if any, from each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers, internal estimates of customer demand factoring in expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential and internal estimates of overall demand based on historical trends. We had 96 new design wins during the first three months of 2017. Pricing, product cost and gross margins of our products .Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. In general, newly introduced products and products with higher performance and more features tend to be priced higher than older, more mature products. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline as products mature. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect that the average selling prices of our products will decline as they mature. In the normal course of business, we will seek to offset the effect of declining average selling prices on existing products by reducing manufacturing costs and introducing new and higher value-added products. If we are unable to maintain overall average selling prices or offset any declines in average selling prices with realized savings on product costs, our gross margin will decline. Investment in growth . We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in expanding our operations, increasing our headcount, developing our products and differentiated technologies to support our growth and expanding our infrastructure. We expect our total operating expenses to increase in the foreseeable future to meet our growth objectives. We plan to continue to invest in our sales and support operations throughout the world, with a particular focus in adding additional sales and field applications personnel in APAC to further broaden our support and coverage of our existing customer base, in addition to developing new customer relationships and generating design wins. We also intend to continue to invest additional resources in research and development to support the development of our products and differentiated technologies. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization or research and development will occur in advance of experiencing any benefits from such investments, and the return on these investments may be lower than we expect. In addition, as we invest in expanding our operations internationally, our business and results will become further subject to the risks and challenges of international operations, including higher operating expenses and the impact of legal and regulatory developments outside the United States. 24 Component s of Our Results of Operations Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue through the sale of our NVM products to OEMs and ODMs, primarily through distributors. We generated 75% and 72% of our revenue from distributors during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We sell the majority of our products to distributors and generally recognize revenue when we ship the product directly to the distributors since title and risk of loss transfers at that time. Because our distributors market and sell their products worldwide, our revenue by geographic location is not necessarily indicative of where our customers' product sales and design win activity occur, but rather of where their manufacturing operations occur. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs paid to our third-party manufacturers for wafer fabrication, assembly and testing of our NVM products, write-downs of inventory for excess and obsolete inventories including write-downs of inventory for products based on CBRAM technology and accruals for future losses on CBRAM wafer purchase commitments to the extent our costs exceed the market price for such products. To a lesser extent, cost of revenue also includes depreciation of test equipment and expenses relating to manufacturing support activities, including personnel-related costs, logistics and quality assurance and shipping. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expense. Personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, are the most significant component of each of our operating expense categories. In addition, in the near term we expect to hire additional personnel, primarily in our selling and marketing functions, and increase research and development expenditures, such as prototype wafers, associated with the implementation of our CBRAM technology in a manufacturing facility in Asia. Accordingly, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we invest in these initiatives. Research and Development .Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our products and technologies. Additional research and development expenses include product prototypes, mask costs, external test and characterization expenses, depreciation, amortization of design tool software licenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and allocated overhead expenses. We also incur costs related to outsourced research and development activities and joint venture activities. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to improve our product features, increase our portfolio of solutions and implement our CBRAM manufacturing technology in a new manufacturing facility. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for our sales, business development, marketing, and applications engineering activities, third-party sales representative commissions, promotional and other marketing expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and travel expenses. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our direct sales teams, primarily in the Asia Pacific Region, and increase our marketing activities. General and Administrative .General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, consulting expenses and professional fees. Professional fees principally consist of legal, audit, tax and accounting services. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we hire additional personnel, make improvements to our infrastructure and incur significant additional costs for the compliance requirements of operating as a public company, including higher legal, insurance and accounting expenses. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net is comprised of interest income (expense) and other income (expense). Interest expense consists of interest on our outstanding debt. Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in fair value of our preferred stock warrant 25 liability and foreign exchange gains or losses. Our foreign currency exchange gains and losses relate to transactions an d asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We expect our foreign currency gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates . Prior to our IPO, we classified our preferred stock warrants as a liability on our consolidated balance sheets and recorded changes in fair value at each balance sheet date with the corresponding change recorded as other income (expense). We recorded a final adjustment to the fair value of the warrants as of the closing of our initial public offering on October 30, 2015 and the warrants will no longer be subject to fair value accounting thereafter due to their conversion into warrants to purchase common stock. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of U.S. federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands, except percentage data): Revenue Revenue increased by $1.1 million, or 11%, during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. This increase was due primarily to a 30% increase in unit shipments across our Fusion Flash, Bios Flash and Data Flash products. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue increased by $0.6 million, or 11%, during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. This increase was due primarily to increased unit shipments offset by a decrease in inventory writedowns. Gross margin was unchanged during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. 26 Operating Expenses Research and Development .Research and development expense decreased by $0.6million, or 14%, during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. This decrease was due primarily to a $0.2 million decrease in materials cost, a $0.2 million decrease in outside services, and a $0.2 million decrease in allocated facilities costs. Sales and Marketing . There was virtually no change in sales and marketing expense during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses increased $0.4million, or 25%, during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. This increase was due primarily to a $0.3 million increase in personnel-related costs. Gain from settlement with a former foundry supplier. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, we recognized a non-cash gain of $2.0 million resulting from settlement of a disputed liability with a former foundry supplier. We did not recognize a similar gain or loss during the three months ended March 31, 2017. Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense, net decreased by approximately $45,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016, due to a decrease in our net borrowings of $1.5 million. Other income (expense), net decreased by approximately $4,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes increased by $13,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. The decrease was due primarily to a reduction in benefits related to our foreign subsidiaries as well as a reduction in benefits related to deferred taxes in the United States. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily with gross proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $78.5 million of convertible preferred stock, $22.5 million of term debt associated with the acquisition of the certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, and net proceeds from our initial public offering on October 30, 2015 of $22.1 million and aggregate borrowings 27 under our current term loan and line of credit facility of $16.6 million. Our principal source of liquidity as of March 31, 2017 c onsisted of cash and cash equivalents of $17.5 million. We did not have any bo rrowing capacity available under our term loan as of March 31, 2017 . We had approximately $0.1 million of additional borrowing capacity under our line of credit as of March 31, 2017. Our outstanding borrowings under this credit facility as of March 31, 2017 were $16.6 million. Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are held in the United States . We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs over the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our spending to support research and development activities, the timing and cost of establishing additional sales and marketing capabilities, the introduction of new and enhanced products and our costs to implement new manufacturing technologies. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any additional debt financing obtained by us in the future could also involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, if we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary source of cash from operating activities has been from cash collections from our customers. We expect cash inflows from operating activities to be affected by increases in sales and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel costs and investments in research and development and sales and marketing. Net cash used in operating activities for the periods presented consisted of net losses adjusted for certain noncash items and changes in working capital. Within changes in working capital, changes in accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable generally account for the largest adjustments, as we typically use more cash to fund accounts receivable and build inventory as our business grows. Increases in accounts payable typically provides more cash as we do more business with our contract foundries and other third parties, depending on the timing of payments. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, cash used in operating activities was approximately $0.3 million and was due primarily to a net loss of $2.8 million, partially offset by non-cash charges of $0.8 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $0.3 million related to depreciation and amortization, $0.3 million related to amortization of intangible assets, and an increase in our net assets and liabilities of $1.0 million. The increase in assets and liabilities is due primarily to a decrease in accounts receivable and inventories of $0.9 million, an increase in accounts payable, accrued compensation and accrued expenses of $0.4 million partially offset by a decrease in deferred rent of $0.3 million and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.3 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in operating activities was $2.1 million, primarily from a net loss of $1.5 million and the impact of a $2.0 million non-cash gain resulting from a settlement with a former foundry supplier partially offset by non-cash charges of $0.8 million related to stock based compensation expense and $0.6 million related to depreciation and amortization. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of purchases of property and equipment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to support continued growth of our business. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, cash used in investing activities was $0.6 million and $0.4 million, respectively, due to purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements related to our new headquarters facility in Santa Clara, CA. 28 Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2017, cash used in financing activities was $1.3 million and was due primarily to repayments of borrowings of our term loan of $1.6 million, offset in part by proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $0.3 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in financing activities was $1.5 million due to principal payments on outstanding loan obligations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purpose. Credit Facility In July 2016, we entered into a business financing agreement ("Credit Facility") with a financial institution. The Credit Facility, as amended, provides for (i) a term loan of up to $18.0 million and (ii) a revolving credit line advance in the aggregate amount of the lower of (x) $2.0 million and (y) 80% of certain of our receivables. The term loan made pursuant to the Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the prime rate and 3.5%, plus 0.75%, and matures in June 2019. The line of credit bears interest at a rate per annual equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5% plus 0.50%, and matures in July 2018. We will make interest-only payments on the term loan from July 2016 through September 2016 and will make principal and interest payments in 33 equal monthly installments starting October 2016. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is collateralized by substantially all of our assets, subject to certain customary exceptions. We paid a facility fee of $150,000 as well as a $25,000 diligence fee upon entry into the Credit Facility and an additional $10,000 is due on July 7, 2017. The Credit Facility, as amended, contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Among other negative covenants, we may not (i) permit the ratio of the balance of unrestricted cash deposited at the financial institution, plus eligible receivables, net of reserve to the total amounts owed with respect to advances under the revolving credit line to be less than 1.50 for 1.00 and (ii) permit cash held at the financial institution in a deposit account to be less than 100% of the term loan outstanding. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of December 31, 2016, we were not in compliance with the financial covenants to maintain the maximum daily liquidity ratio, as defined in the agreement, during the months of August, September, October and November 2016. On February 13, 2017, the bank waived the Company's default as of December 31, 2016 under the Credit Facility. As of March 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions. The Credit Facility replaced our three-year $15.0 million credit agreement. On July 7, 2016, we terminated this credit agreement. In connection with termination and new borrowings under the new Credit Facility (as defined above), we paid off all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest, and fees under the term loan facility. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2017: (1) Operating leases primarily relate to our leases of office space with terms expiring through July 31, 2023. (2) Represents outstanding purchase orders for wafer commitments that we have placed with our suppliers as of March 31, 2017. 29 (3) Financing arrangements represent debt maturities under our term loan and line of credit . (4) Represents our commitments under the CBRAM Joint Development and Manufacturing Agreement executed on February 18, 2016 with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. (5) Represents our commitments under the Licensing and Development Agreement executed on April 21, 2016 with Semitech Semiconductor Pty, Ltd. As of March 31, 2017, we had a liability of $11,000 for uncertain tax positions. 30Item1. Financial Statements ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in thousands, except share and per share data) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Organization and Nature of Operations. Adesto Technologies Corporation (together with its subsidiaries; "Adesto", "we", "our", "us" or the "Company") was incorporated in the state of California in January 2006 and reincorporated in Delaware in October 2015. We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory ("NVM") products. Our corporate headquarters are located in Santa Clara, California. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation and our financial results include the operating results of those assets from the date of acquisition. Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to complete annual financial statements. In the opinion of our management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary to present fairly the financial position of the Company and its results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented have been included. Operating results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2017, for any other interim period or for any other future year. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 was derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date, but does not include all of the disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 24, 2017. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the results of our operations, and the operations of our wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies described in Note 1, Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 that have had a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes, except as described below. Use of Estimates. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate those estimates, including those related to allowances for doubtful accounts, reserves for sales, warranty accrual, inventory write-downs, valuation of long-lived assets, including property and equipment and identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, loss on purchase commitments, valuation of deferred taxes and contingencies. In addition, we use assumptions when employing the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of stock options granted and Monte Carlo simulation techniques to value certain restricted stock units with performance-based vesting conditions. We base our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, when these carrying values are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable Allowances. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the selling price is fixed or determinable, transfer of title occurs, and the collectibility of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Due to the historical 7 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) immaterial level of product returns under warranty, we do not record a reserve for estimated returns under warranty at the time of revenue recognition. Generally, we meet product sale revenue recognition conditions upon shipment because, in most cases, title and risk of loss passes to the customer at that time. In addition, we estimate and record provisions for future returns and other charges against revenue at the time of shipment, consistent with the terms of sale. We sell products to distributors at the price listed in our distributor price book. At the time of sale, we record a sales reserve for ship from stock and debits ("SSDs"), stock rotation rights and any special programs approved by management. We offset the sales reserve against recorded revenues, producing the revenue amount reported in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. The market price for our products can differ significantly from the book price at which we sold the product to the distributor. When the market price of a particular distributor's sales opportunity to their customers would result in low or negative margins for the distributor, as compared to our original book price, we negotiate SSDs with the distributor. Management analyzes our SSD history to develop current SSD rates that form the basis of the SSD revenue reserve recorded each period. We obtain the historical SSD rates from the distributor's records and our internal records. We typically grant payment terms of between 30 and 60 days to our customers. Our customers generally pay within those terms. Distributors are invoiced for shipments at listed book price. When the distributors pay the invoice, they may claim debits for SSDs previously authorized by us when appropriate. Once claimed, we process the requests against prior authorizations and adjust reserves previously established for that customer. The revenue we record for sales to our distributors is net of estimated provisions for these programs. Determining net revenue requires significant judgments and estimates on our part. We base our estimates on historical experience rates, the levels of inventory held by our distributors, current trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there is a risk actual amounts may differ materially from our estimates. Our consolidated financial condition and operating results depend on our ability to make reliable estimates. We believe that such estimates are reasonable. We also monitor collectibility of accounts receivable primarily through review of our accounts receivable aging. When facts and circumstances indicate the collection of specific amounts or from specific customers is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts. Product Warranty. Our products are sold with a limited warranty for a period of one year, warranting that the product conforms to specifications and is free from material defects in design, materials and workmanship. To date, we have had insignificant returns of any defective production parts. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded $250,000 for a specific potential warranty claim. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, approximately $41,000 has been incurred relating to this potential warranty claim. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the warranty accrual was $209,000, and is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Foreign Currency Translation. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency. In consolidation, we translate assets and liabilities at exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date. We translate revenue and expense accounts at the average exchange rates during the period in which the transaction takes place. Net losses from foreign currency translation of assets and liabilities were $29,000 and $4,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $51,000 and $17,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and are included in the cumulative translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, a component of stockholders' equity. Net losses arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency were $5,000 and $34,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and a $8,000 gain and a $12,000 loss for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and are included in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. 8 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Concentrat ion of Risk. Our products are primarily manufactured, assembled and tested by third-party foundries and other contractors in Asia and we are heavily dependent on a single foundry in Taiwan for the manufacture of wafers and a single contractor in the Philippines for assembly and testing of our products. We do not have long-term agreements with either of these suppliers. A significant disruption in the operations of these parties would adversely impact the production of our products for a substantial period of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivables. We place substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents on deposit with a reputable, high credit quality financial institution in the United States of America. We believe that the bank that holds substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents is financially sound and, accordingly, subject to minimal credit risk. Deposits held with the bank may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. We generally do not require collateral or other security in support of accounts receivable. We periodically review the need for an allowance for doubtful accounts by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, the age of the accounts receivable balances and current economic conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay. As a result of our favorable collection experience and customer concentration, there was no allowance for doubtful accounts as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Customer concentrations as a percentage of revenue were as follows: * less than 10% Customer concentrations as a percentage of gross accounts receivable were as follows: * less than 10% Recent Accounting Pronouncements. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, creating Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 606. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 605 and aims to simplify the number of requirements to follow for revenue recognition and make revenue recognition more comparable across various entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. There are five core principles: 1. Identify the contract(s) with a customer. 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract. 3. Determine the transaction price. 4. Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract. 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. Additional considerations under this update include: accounting for costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. 9 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, amending ASC 330. Upon adoption, this topic supersedes the existing guidance under ASC 330 and aims to simplify the subsequent measurement of inventory. Currently, inventory can be measured at the lower of cost or market, which could result in several potential outcomes, as market could be replacement cost, net realizable value or net realizable value less an approxima tely normal profit margin. The major amendments would be as follows: 1. Inventory should be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. 2. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less reasonably pre dictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. 3. The amendment does not apply to inventory measured under LIFO or the retail inventory method. 4. The amendment does apply to all other inventory, which includes inventory measured via FIFO or av erage cost. We adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2017 and it did not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements . In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, Topic 842. This ASU requires lease assets and lease liabilities arising from leases, including operating leases, to be recognized on the balance sheet, ASU 2016-02 will become effective for us on January 1, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation, ASC Topic 718: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. Under this ASU, several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions are simplified, including: (a) income tax consequences; (b) classification of awards as either equity or liabilities; and (c) classification on the statement of cash flows. We adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2017. We elected to continue to account for forfeitures on an estimated basis. We have elected to present the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows on a prospective transition method and no prior periods have been adjusted. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, Topic 606. The ASU, among other things: (1) clarifies the objective of the collectibility criterion for applying paragraph 606-10-25-7; (2) permits an entity to exclude amounts collected from customers for all sales (and other similar) taxes from the transaction price; (3) specifies that the measurement date for noncash consideration is contract inception; (4) provides a practical expedient that permits an entity to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications that occur before the beginning of the earliest period presented when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations; (5) clarifies that a completed contract for purposes of transition is a contract for which all (or substantially all) of the revenue was recognized under legacy GAAP before the date of initial application, and (6) clarifies that an entity that retrospectively applies the guidance in Topic 606 to each prior reporting period is not required to disclose the effect of the accounting change for the period of adoption. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, ASC Topic 230. This ASU is a clarification of how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. This update provides guidance on eight identified issues: 1) debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, 2) settlement of zero-coupon debt, 3) contingent consideration for payments, 4) proceeds from settlement of insurance claims, 5) proceeds from settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, 6) distributions from equity method investees, 7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions, and 8) separately identifiable cash flows. The amendments in this update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. This ASU requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset upon transfer other than inventory, eliminating the current recognition exception. Prior to this ASU, U.S. GAAP prohibited the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for the intra-entity asset transfers until the asset was sold to an outside party. For public business entities, the amendments in the ASU are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and should be applied on a modified retrospective basis though a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements. 10 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) In November 2016, the FASB iss ued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. The amendments in the update require that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restr icted cash or restricted cash equivalents. This ASU will become effective for public business entities on December 15, 2017. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements . In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350). The objective of this ASU is to simplify how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Instead, under this ASU, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Additionally, an entity should consider income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. The amendments in this update are effective for a public business entity that is a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filer for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. The amendments should be applied on a prospective basis. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting. The new guidance provides clarity and reduces both (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, to a change to the terms of conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments are effective for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017. We plan to adopt this guidance effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), or the first quarter of 2018, and are currently evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements Note 2. Balance Sheet Components. Accounts Receivable, Net. Accounts receivable, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Inventories. Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): For the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, we realized a benefit of $0.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively, from the sales of previously reserved products. 11 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) For the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, we realized a benefit of $0 . 6 million and $0.7 million, respectively, from the sale s of previously reserved products. Inventory write-downs were primarily associated with products built in excess of customer demand which resulted in excess inventory levels, legacy products for which no demand exists and lower of cost or net realizable value write-downs associated with CBRAM products for which costs exceeded net realizable value. Property and Equipment, Net. Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): The Company incurs costs for the fabrication of masks used by its foundry partners to manufacture its products. Beginning the first fiscal quarter of 2017, the Company capitalizes mask costs that are expected to be utilized in production manufacturing as the Company's product development process has become more predictable and thus supports capitalization of the mask. The capitalized mask costs begin depreciating to cost of revenue once the products go into production. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over a three year period which is the expected useful life of the mask. Previously mask sets were expensed to research and development. Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 was $0.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment for the three and six months ended June, 30, 2016 was $0.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities. Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 12 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Note 3. Fair Value Measurements. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. We measure financial assets and liabilities at fair value at each reporting period using a fair value hierarchy which requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Three levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2. Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs other than quoted prices which are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instruments. Level 3. Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity and which are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had no financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Note 4. Intangible Assets, net. In 2012, in connection with our purchase of the serial flash memory product line assets from Atmel Corporation, we recorded $16.4 million of intangible assets. Intangible assets, net were as follows (in thousands): 13 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) We recorded amortization expense related to the acquisition-related intangible assets as follows (in thousands): The estimated future amortization expense of acquisition-related intangible assets subject to amortization after June 30, 2017 is as follows (in thousands): Note 5. Borrowings. Opus Bank Term Loan. In April 2015, we entered into a three-year $15.0 million credit agreement, or the term loan facility. The agreement provided for a senior secured term loan facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes including working capital, to repay certain indebtedness and for capital expenditures and other expenses. Interest accrued on outstanding borrowings at a rate equal to (a) the higher of (i) the prime rate (as publicly announced from time to time by the Wall Street Journal) and (ii) 3.25% plus (b) (i) 1.00% if our cash equivalents are greater than 125% of the outstanding principal of our borrowings under the term loan facility, or (ii) 2.00% if our cash and cash equivalents are less than or equal to 125% of such borrowings. Indebtedness we incurred under this agreement was collateralized by substantially all of our assets and the agreement contained financial covenants requiring us to maintain a monthly asset coverage ratio after September 30, 2015 of not less than 1.10 to 1.00, and quarterly adjusted EBITDA (measured on a trailing three-month basis) of $1 through September 30, 2016 and increasing to higher levels thereafter. Under the agreement, the quarterly EBITDA covenant was not applicable if the asset coverage ratio is met at all times during any particular quarter. The agreement contained customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limited or restricted our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, make investments, repurchase stock, pay dividends, transfer assets, merge or consolidate and make acquisitions. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could have been required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. Borrowings of $14.0 million under this facility were repaid in full in July 2016. 14 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) In connection with the term loan facility, Opus Bank received a warrant to purchase 31,897 shares of SeriesE convertible preferred stock. Upon the completion of our initial public offering (" IPO ") on October 30, 2015 the preferred stock warrants were conv erted into 315,282 of our common stock warrants. In addition, we paid financing costs of $0.1 million. The financing costs and the value of the warrant, $1 . 0 million, were recorded as a debt discount and were being amortized over the life of the agreement. Amortization of debt discount was $0. 2 million for the six months ended June 30 , 2016 . In connection with the repayment of this facility in July 2016 , the remaining unamortized debt discount of $0.4 million was recorded as interest expense in the condense d consolidated statements of operations. Western Alliance Bank Term Loan. On July 7, 2016, the Company entered into a business financing agreement ("Credit Facility") with Western Alliance Bank. The Credit Facility provides for (i) a term loan of up to $18.0 million and (ii) a revolving credit line advance in the aggregate amount of the lower of (x) $2.0 million and (y) 80% of certain of the Company's receivables. The term loan made pursuant to the Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5%, plus 0.75% (5.00% on June 30, 2017), and matures in June 2019. The line of credit bears interest at a rate per annual equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5% plus 0.50% (4.75% on June 30, 2017), and matures in July 2018.The Company made interest-only payments on the term loan from July 2016 through September 2016 and began making interest payments and principal payments in 33 equal monthly installments starting October 2016. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is collateralized by substantially all assets of the Company and any domestic subsidiaries, subject to certain customary exceptions. The Company paid a facility fee of $150,000 as well as a $25,000 diligence fee upon entry into the Credit Facility and an additional $10,000 is due on July 7, 2017. These fees have been recorded as a debt discount and are being amortized over the life of the agreement. During the six months ended June 30, 2017, amortization of debt discount was $45,000 and the unamortized debt discount was $78,000 as of June 30, 2017. The Credit Facility, as amended, contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Among other negative covenants, we may not (i) permit the ratio of the balance of unrestricted cash deposited at the financial institution, plus eligible receivables, net of reserve to the total amounts owed with respect to advances under the revolving credit line to be less than 1.50 to 1.00 and (ii) permit cash held at the financial institution in a deposit account to be less than 100% of the term loan outstanding. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of June 30, 2017, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions. Outstanding borrowings consisted of the following (in thousands): Future repayments on outstanding borrowings (excluding unamortized discount of $78,000 as of June 30, 2017) are as follows (in thousands): Interest expense incurred under our borrowings was $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. Interest expense incurred under our borrowings was $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. 15 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Note 6. Segment Information. We operate in one business segment, application-specific and feature-rich, ultra-low power NVM products. Our chief decision-maker, the President and Chief Executive Officer, evaluates our performance based on company-wide consolidated results. Revenue is evaluated based on product category and by geographic region. Product revenue from customers is designated based on the geographic region to which the product is delivered. Revenue by geographic region was as follows (in thousands): Long-lived assets are attributed to the geographic region were they are located. Long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows (in thousands): Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies. Operating Leases. The Company leases office facilities under various non-cancelable operating lease agreements. Certain lease agreements contain free or escalating rent payment provisions. The Company recognizes rent expense under such leases on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease with the difference between the expense and the payments recorded as deferred rent on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Any reimbursements by the landlord for tenant improvements are considered lease incentives, the balance of which is recorded as a lease incentive obligation within deferred rent on the condensed consolidated balance sheets, and amortized as a reduction of rent expense over the life of the lease. Lease renewal periods are considered on a lease-by-lease basis in determining the lease term. On November 2, 2015, the Company extended the lease for its headquarters by six months to July 2016 by entering into that certain Amendment to Commercial Sublease ("Amendment"), dated November 2, 2015, between the Company and eGain Corporation. The Amendment provides for a base rent during the extension period of $47,000 per month. Subsequently, we extended the lease to August 31, 2016. Additionally, on November 2, 2015, the Company entered into a lease with Peterson Ridge LLC pursuant to which the Company leased a new headquarters facility, consisting of an aggregate of approximately 34,000 square feet of space in Santa Clara, California. The initial term of the lease commenced on November 2, 2015 and is scheduled to end on July 31, 2023 and may be extended, at the Company's option, for an additional five-year period following the initial lease term. Pursuant to the lease, monthly base rental payments due under the lease are approximately $93,000 per month between August 1, 2016 and February 27, 2017, with annual increases of approximately 3% thereafter. The Company must also pay for certain other operating costs under the lease, including operating expenses, taxes, assessments, insurance, utilities, securities and property management fees. Peterson Ridge LLC is obligated to reimburse the Company for up to approximately $2.5 million of the Company's out-of-pocket 16 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) costs associated with any tenant improvements, as defined in the lease. The Company was reimbursed for this amount during the year ended December 31 , 2016. As of June 30, 2017 , the Company recorded a lease incentive obligation of $2. 2 million in deferred rent on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Rent expense under operating leases was $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. Rent expense under operating leases was $0.5 million and $1.0 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. Purchase Commitments. As of June 30, 2017, we had purchase commitments with our third-party foundries of $3.0 million due within one year, $0.7 million for a licensing and development agreement, and $7.9 million in conjunction with an agreement with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. Litigation. Although we are not currently subject to any litigation, and no litigation is currently threatened against us, we may be subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation, including intellectual property litigation, arising in the ordinary course of business. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes and are not predictable with assurance. We accrue amounts that we believe are adequate to address any liabilities related to legal proceedings and other loss contingencies that we believe will result in a probable loss that is reasonably estimable. Indemnification. During the normal course of business, we may make certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees which may include intellectual property indemnities to certain of our customers in connection with the sales of our products and indemnities for liabilities associated with the infringement of other parties' technology based upon our products. Our exposure under these indemnification provisions is generally limited to the total amount paid by a customer under the agreement. However, certain agreements include indemnification provisions that could potentially expose us to losses in excess of the amount received under the agreement. In addition, we indemnify our officers, directors and certain key employees while they are serving in good faith in such capacities. We have not recorded any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Where necessary, we accrue for losses for any known contingent liabilities, including those that may arise from indemnification provisions, when future payment is probable. Note 8. Common Stock, Common Stock Warrants and Stock Option Plan. Common Stock. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock with $0.0001 par value per share as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Each holder of common stock is entitled to one vote per share. As of June 30, 2017, no dividends have been declared by the Board of Directors, however, the holders of common stock are also entitled to receive dividends, when and if declared by our Board of Directors. We completed a follow-on offering of our common stock in June 2017. We sold 5,000,000 shares, including 625,000 shares upon exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares. The shares were sold at a public offering price of $4.00 per share for net proceeds of $18.4 million to us, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. 17 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had reserved shares of common stock for future issuances as follows: Common Stock Warrants. The following common stock warrants were outstanding as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 and were the result of a conversion of preferred stock warrants upon the completion of our IPO on October 30, 2015. Common stock warrants are exercisable at the option of the holder any time after the date of issuance into shares of our common stock. The aggregate amount of shares of common stock that would be issued is determined by dividing the exercisable price by the conversion price applicable on the date of conversion multiplied by the number of warrants exercised. Employee Benefit Plans. 2007 Equity Incentive Plan. In 2007, our Board of Directors and shareholders approved the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan") under which 272,727 shares of common stock were reserved and available for the issuance of stock options and restricted stock to eligible participants. The 2007 Plan was subsequently amended to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan to 787,878 and during the year ended December 31, 2015, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2007 Plan was increased to 2,651,515. Options and restricted stock awards were granted at a price per share not less than the 85% of the fair value at the date of grant or award, respectively. Restricted stock awarded to persons controlling more than 10% of our stock were granted at a price per share not less than the 100% of the fair value at the date of the award. Options that were granted to new employees generally vest over a four-year period with 25% vesting at the end of one year and the remaining to vest monthly thereafter, while options that were granted to existing employees generally vest over a four-year period. Options granted generally are exercisable up to 10 years from the date of grant. As of October 26, 2015, no shares were available for grant under the 2007 Plan and all outstanding options would continue to be governed and remain outstanding in accordance with their existing terms under the 2007 Plan. In addition, any shares subject to outstanding awards under the 2007 Plan that are issuable upon the exercise of options that expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full will be available for future grant and issuance under the 2015 Plan (as defined below). 2015 Equity Incentive Plan. In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan. The 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became effective on the date immediately prior to the date of our IPO. As a result, 1,813,272 shares of common stock previously reserved but unissued under the 2007 Plan on the effective date of the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan became reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, and we ceased granting awards under our 2007 Plan. The number of 18 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January of ea ch of 2016 through 2025 by the number of shares equal to 4% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31. However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan authorizes the award of stock options, restricted stock awards, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance awards and stock bonuses. No person will be eligible to receive more than 2,000,000 shares in any calendar year under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan other than a new employee of ours, who will be eligible to receive no more than 4,000,000 shares under the plan in the calendar year in which the employee commences employment. The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that may be subject to awards granted to any one non-employee director pursuant to the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan in any calendar year shall not exceed 300,000. Our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan provides that no more than 25,000,000 shares will be issued as incentive stock options. 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In September 2015, our Board of Directors adopted, and in October 2015 our stockholders approved, our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). The 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan became effective on the date of our IPO. We reserved 150,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares reserved for issuance under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will increase automatically on the first day of January following the first offering date by the number of shares equal to 1% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock as of the immediately preceding December 31 (rounded to the nearest whole share). However, our Board of Directors may reduce the amount of the increase in any particular year. The aggregate number of shares issued over the term of our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will not exceed 2,250,000 shares of our common stock. Under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees will be able to acquire shares of our common stock by accumulating funds through payroll deductions. Eligible employees will be able to select a rate of payroll deduction up to 15% of their base cash compensation. The purchase price for shares of our common stock purchased under our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of our common stock on (i) the first trading day of the applicable offering period and (ii) the last trading day of each purchase period in the applicable offering period. Except for the first offering period, each offering period will run for no more than six months, with purchases occurring every six months. The first offering period began upon the effective date of our IPO and was originally set to end on June 30, 2016. On May 25, 2016, the Board of Directors extended the initial offering period to July 31, 2016. Subsequent purchase periods will be 6 months in duration beginning on August 1, 2016. On July 29, 2016, we issued 68,392 shares of common stock in conjunction with the end date of the initial purchase window. On January 31, 2017, we issued 50,917 shares of common stock in conjunction with the end date of the most recent purchase window. No participant will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock in an amount that has a fair market value greater than $25,000, determined as of the first day of the applicable purchase period, for each calendar year in which that right is outstanding. In addition, no participant will be permitted to purchase more than 2,500 shares during any one purchase period or a lesser amount as determined by our compensation committee. Our 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will continue until the earlier to occur of its termination by our Board of Directors, the issuance of all shares reserved for issuance under it or the tenth anniversary of its effective date. 19 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) A summary of stock option and restricted stock units (including performance-based RSU) activity under th e 2007 Plan and the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan is as follows: Note 9. Stock-based Compensation. We record stock-based compensation based on fair value as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model for stock options granted and Monte Carlo simulation techniques for certain restricted stock units with performance-based vesting conditions. We recognize such costs as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the employee's requisite service period, which is generally four years. Our valuation assumptions for stock options are as follows: Fair value of common stock. Prior to our IPO in October 2015, we estimated the fair value of our common stock using various valuation methodologies, including valuation analyses performed by third-party valuation firms. After the IPO, we used the publicly quoted price as the fair value of our common stock. Risk-free interest rate. We base the risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent expected term of the options for each option group. 20 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Expected term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumption is based on the simplified method in which the expected term is equal to the average of the stock-based award's weighted-average vesting period and its contractual term. We expect to continue using the simplified method until sufficient information about historical behav ior is available. Volatility. We determine volatility based on the historical stock volatilities of a group of publicly listed guideline companies over a period equal to the expected terms of the options, as we do not have sufficient trading history to determine the volatility of our common stock. Dividend yield. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend and do not currently plan to pay a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we used an expected dividend yield of zero. The following table summarizes the weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine fair value of stock options: The weighted-average grant date fair value of the options granted under the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan as calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model was $3.77 and $3.03 per share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. On April 1, 2017, our compensation committee granted 204,220 RSUs that do not begin vesting unless certain performance goals are met. All performance goals must be met in order for the shares to begin vesting. Vesting would begin on the one-year anniversary of the grant date. These performance goals relate to a) the price performance of our common stock one year from the grant date as compared to a threshold established by our compensation committee and b) revenue, gross profit and EBITDA performance relative to plan targets for fiscal 2017 established by our compensation committee. As a result of these performance-based vesting conditions we valued these RSUs using Monte Carlo simulation techniques to establish a fair value per share of $0.81 at the time of grant. The following table presents the effects of stock-based compensation for stock options, RSUs (including performance-based RSUs), and ESPP purchase rights (in thousands): Stock-based compensation expense capitalized to inventories was not material during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. We did not realize any income tax benefit from stock option exercises in any of the periods presented due to recurring losses and valuation allowances. As of June 30, 2017, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, net of estimated forfeitures, was approximately $1.4 million, and this amount is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 3.3 years. 21 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) As of June 30, 2017 , the total unrecognized c ompensation cost related to RSU s (including performance-based RSUs) and ESPP pu rchase rights was $2 . 1 million and $13 ,000, respectively, and these amounts are expected to be recognized over 2 . 0 years and 0. 2 years, respectively. Note 10. Income Taxes. We recorded an income tax provision of $13,000 and $17,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $40,000 and $31,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The income tax provision is comprised of estimates of current taxes due in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The income tax provision reflects tax expense associated with state income tax, foreign taxes, uncertain tax positions and tax expense related to the recording of a deferred tax liability that results from the amortization for income tax purposes of acquisition-related goodwill. The decrease in the tax provision between 2017 and 2016 is primarily due to a decrease in foreign taxes. As of June 30, 2017, our deferred tax assets are fully offset by a valuation allowance except in those jurisdictions where it is determined that a valuation allowance is not required. Accounting for income taxes provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. Based on the weight of available evidence, which includes historical operating performance, reported cumulative net losses since inception and difficulty in accurately forecasting our future results, we provided a full valuation allowance against our net U.S. deferred tax assets. We reassess the need for our valuation allowance on a quarterly basis. If it is later determined that a portion or all of the valuation allowance is not required, it generally will be a benefit to the income tax provision in the period that such determination is made. We evaluate tax positions for recognition using a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, and those tax positions eligible for recognition are measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon the effective settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. We believe that we have provided adequate reserves for our income tax uncertainties in all open tax years. We do not anticipate a material change in the total amount or composition of its unrecognized tax benefits within 12 months of June 30, 2017. We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. Due to our net operating loss and credit carryforwards, our income tax returns generally remain subject to examination by federal, state and international authorities. Note 11. Net Loss Per Share. The following outstanding common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share for the periods presented because including them would have been antidilutive: Note 12. Related Party Transactions. The Company purchases certain wafers from Altis Semiconductor S.N.C., which was acquired in 2016 by X-FAB Silicon Foundries, a stockholder of the Company ("X-FAB"). We made no payments to X-FAB during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017. We made payments of $77,000 and $172,000 to X-FAB during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, invoices totaling $158,000 and $195,000, respectively, were payable to X-FAB and included within accounts payable on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. 22 ADESTO TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Note 13. Subsequent Events. None 23 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or to our future financial or operating performance. You can generally identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "could," "intend," "target," "projects," "contemplates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential" or "continue" or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. We have based these forward-looking statements primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Risk Factors, set forth in Part II, Item 1A, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully. The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations and should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes to audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. In this Quarterly Report, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, "Adesto," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Adesto Technologies Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading provider of application-specific and ultra-low power non-volatile memory, or NVM, products. We optimize our NVM products for Internet of Things, or IoT, applications including current and next-generation Internet-connected devices in the consumer, industrial, medical and wearables markets. We combine our NVM design capabilities with proprietary intellectual property and differentiated technology platforms to deliver high-performance products that dramatically reduce the overall energy consumption of our customers' systems and extend battery life. Our products feature embedded intelligence in a small form factor and high reliability. Our revenue is derived from the sale of our NVM products, primarily our standard serial flash memory products, which represented substantially all of our revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2017. On September 28, 2012, we purchased certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, or Atmel. The products we acquired as part of the acquisition were approaching the end of their life cycle and experiencing annual revenue declines. While we provide support for these products, we have not invested further in their research and development and generate no material revenue from their sale. Since the acquisition, we have invested in developing new products that are better suited for low-power, high-growth applications, accelerated development of select products and introduced new products based on the acquired technology. In 2013, we introduced the first of our next-generation DataFlash and Fusion Flash products, which have similar functionality to our legacy products, but also offer enhanced features such as ultra-deep power down and wide supply voltage range operation. Revenue from our next-generation NVM products were $13.3 million and $9.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We had been exclusively developing products based on Conductive Bridging RAM, or CBRAM, technology prior to the acquisition of assets from Atmel. Since then, we have continued to invest our resources into developing and enhancing our families of CBRAM-based products, although revenue associated with these products has not been material to date. We have made and continue to make these upfront investments because we believe that the introduction of any fundamentally new semiconductor technology must necessarily go through a lengthy customer evaluation process and several cycles of improvement in the field before it can be widely adopted or generate material revenue. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, our products were sold to more than 500 end customers. In general, we work directly with our customers to have our NVM devices designed into and qualified for their products. Although we maintain direct sales, support and development relationships with our customers, once our products are designed into a customer's product, we sell a majority of our products to those customers through distributors. We generated 72% and 71% of our revenue from distributors during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Sales to three distributors generated approximately 38% and 37% of our revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Additionally, we derived approximately 78% and 86% of our revenue internationally during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, the majority of which was recognized 24 in the Asia Pacific, or APAC, region. Revenue by geography is recognized based on the region to which our products are sold, and not to where the end products are shipped . We employ a fabless manufacturing strategy and use market-leading suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging. This strategy significantly reduces the capital investment that would otherwise by required to operate manufacturing facilities of our own. Factors Affecting Our Performance Product adoption in new markets and applications . We optimize our products to meet the technical requirements of the emerging IoT market. The growth in the IoT market is dependent on many factors, most of which are outside of our control. Should the IoT market not develop or develop more slowly, our financial results could be adversely affected. Ability to attract and retain customers that make large orders .In 2016, our products were sold to more than 500 end customers, of which approximately 20 generated more than half our revenue. One end customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in 2016 and 2015. No end customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in 2014 or the first six months of 2017. While we expect the composition of our customers to change over time, our business and operating results will depend on our ability to continually target new and retain existing customers that make large orders, particularly those in growth markets which are less dependent on macroeconomic conditions. Design wins with new and existing customers .We believe our solutions significantly improve the performance and potentially lower the system cost of our customers' designs, particularly if we are part of the early design phase. Accordingly, we work closely with our customers and targeted prospects to understand their product roadmaps and strategies. We consider design wins to be critical to our future success. We define a design win as the successful completion of the evaluation stage, where a customer has tested our product, verified that our product meets its requirements and qualified our NVM device for their products. The number of our design wins has grown from 65 in 2014 to 135 in 2015 and to 296 in 2016, including 63, 125 and 294 design wins for new products, respectively. The revenue that we generate, if any, from each design win can vary significantly. Our long-term sales expectations are based on forecasts from customers, internal estimates of customer demand factoring in expected time to market for end customer products incorporating our solutions and associated revenue potential and internal estimates of overall demand based on historical trends. We had 186 new design wins during the first six months of 2017. Pricing, product cost and gross margins of our products .Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mixes, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. In general, newly introduced products and products with higher performance and more features tend to be priced higher than older, more mature products. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline as products mature. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect that the average selling prices of our products will decline as they mature. In the normal course of business, we will seek to offset the effect of declining average selling prices on existing products by reducing manufacturing costs and introducing new and higher value-added products. If we are unable to maintain overall average selling prices or offset any declines in average selling prices with realized savings on product costs, our gross margin will decline. Investment in growth . We have invested, and intend to continue to invest, in expanding our operations, increasing our headcount, developing our products and differentiated technologies to support our growth and expanding our infrastructure. We expect our total operating expenses to increase in the foreseeable future to meet our growth objectives. We plan to continue to invest in our sales and support operations throughout the world, with a particular focus in adding additional sales and field applications personnel in APAC to further broaden our support and coverage of our existing customer base, in addition to developing new customer relationships and generating design wins. We also intend to continue to invest additional resources in research and development to support the development of our products and differentiated technologies. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization or research and development will occur in advance of experiencing any benefits from such investments, and the return on these investments may be lower than we expect. In addition, as we invest in expanding our operations internationally, our business and results will become further subject to the risks and challenges of international operations, including higher operating expenses and the impact of legal and regulatory developments outside the United States. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We derive substantially all of our revenue through the sale of our NVM products to OEMs and ODMs, primarily through distributors. We generated 72% and 71% of our revenue from distributors during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, 25 respectively. We recognize revenue from product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and all other revenue recognition criteria are met. We sell the majority of our products to distributors and generally recognize revenue whe n we ship the product directly to the distributors since title and risk of loss transfers at that time . Because our distributors market and sell their products worldwide, our revenue by geographic location is not necessarily indicative of where our customers' product sales and design win activity occur, but rather of where their manufacturing operations occur. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue primarily consists of costs paid to our third-party manufacturers for wafer fabrication, assembly and testing of our NVM products, write-downs of inventory for excess and obsolete inventories including write-downs of inventory for products based on CBRAM technology and accruals for future losses on CBRAM wafer purchase commitments to the extent our costs exceed the market price for such products. To a lesser extent, cost of revenue also includes depreciation of test equipment and expenses relating to manufacturing support activities, including personnel-related costs, logistics and quality assurance and shipping. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mix, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers and assembly and test service costs, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expense. Personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, are the most significant component of each of our operating expense categories. In addition, in the near term we expect to hire additional personnel, primarily in our selling and marketing functions, and increase research and development expenditures, such as prototype wafers, associated with the implementation of our CBRAM technology in a manufacturing facility in Asia. Accordingly, we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we invest in these initiatives. Research and Development .Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for the design and development of our products and technologies. Additional research and development expenses include product prototype costs, mask costs and other materials costs, external test and characterization expenses, depreciation, amortization of design tool software licenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and allocated overhead expenses. We also incur costs related to outsourced research and development activities and joint venture activities. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to improve our product features, increase our portfolio of solutions and implement our CBRAM manufacturing technology in a new manufacturing facility. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs for our sales, business development, marketing, and applications engineering activities, third-party sales representative commissions, promotional and other marketing expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and travel expenses. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our direct sales teams, primarily in the Asia Pacific Region, and increase our marketing activities. General and Administrative .General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, consulting expenses and professional fees. Professional fees principally consist of legal, audit, tax and accounting services. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we hire additional personnel, make improvements to our infrastructure and incur significant additional costs for the compliance requirements of operating as a public company, including higher legal, insurance and accounting expenses. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net is comprised of interest income (expense) and other income (expense). Interest expense consists of interest on our outstanding debt. Other expense, net consists primarily of the change in fair value of our preferred stock warrant liability and foreign exchange gains or losses. Our foreign currency exchange gains and losses relate to transactions and asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We expect our foreign currency gains and losses to continue to fluctuate in the future due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 26 Prior to our IPO, we classified o ur preferred stock warrants as a liability on our consolidated balance sheets and recorded changes in fair value at each balance sheet date with the corresponding change recorded as other income (expense). We recorded a final adjustment to the fair value o f the warrants as of the closing of our initial public offering on October30, 2015 and the warrants will no longer be subject to fair value accounting thereafter due to their conversion into warrants to purchase common stock. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of U.S. federal and state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We have a full valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, and tax credits related primarily to research and development. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Comparison of the Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands, except percentage data): Revenue Revenue increased by $3.1 million, or 30%, during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. This increase was due primarily to a 17% increase in unit shipments across our Fusion Flash, Bios Flash and Data Flash products. Revenue increased by $4.3 million, or 21%, during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. This increase was due primarily to a 23% increase in unit shipments across our Fusion Flash, Bios Flash and Data Flash products. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue increased by $1.1 million, or 21%, during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. This increase was due primarily to increased unit shipments. Cost of revenue increased by $1.7 million, or 16%, during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. This increase was due primarily to increased unit shipments partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in expenses related to manufacturing support activities. Gross margin increased by $2.0 million during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 due primarily to a 17% increase in unit shipments and a decrease in direct manufacturing costs as a percentage of revenue. 27 Gross margin increased by $2.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June 30 , 2016 due primarily to a 23% increase in unit shipments, a decrease in direct manufacturing costs as a percentage of revenue, an d a decrease in expenses related to manufacturing support activities . Operating Expenses Research and Development .Research and development expense decreased by $0.5million, or 13%, during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. This decrease was due primarily to a $0.6 million decrease in materials cost, a $0.1 million decrease in allocated overhead expenses, partially offset by a $0.2 million increase in personnel costs. Research and development expense decreased by $1.1 million, or 13%, during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. This decrease was due primarily to a $0.8 million decrease in materials cost, a $0.2 million decrease in outsourced research and development activities, partially offset by a $0.2 million increase in personnel costs Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expense increased by $0.1 million, or 2%, during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 primarily due to an increase in third-party sales representative commissions. Sales and marketing expense increased by $0.1 million, or 1%, during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. This increase was due primarily to a $0.2 million increase in personnel costs offset in part by a $0.1 million decrease in third-party sales representative commissions. General and Administrative . There was virtually no change in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. General and administrative expenses increased $0.4 million, or 12%, during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. This increase was due primarily to a $0.4 million increase in personnel costs, a $0.1 million increase in costs related to being a public company, partially offset by a $0.1 million decrease in software amortization expense. Gain from settlement with a former foundry supplier. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, we recognized a non-cash gain of $2.0 million resulting from settlement of a disputed liability with a former foundry supplier. We did not recognize a similar gain or loss during the six months ended June 30, 2017. Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense, net decreased by approximately $26,000 and $71,000 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to the elimination of warrant discount amortization. 28 Other income (expense), net decreased by approximately $29 ,000 and in creased by approximately $25 ,000 during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three and six months ended June 30 , 2016 due primarily to a decrease in foreign currency transaction charges . Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes decreased by $4,000 during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 and increased by $9,000 during the six months ended June 30, 2017. The decrease was due primarily to a reduction in benefits related to our foreign subsidiaries as well as a reduction in benefits related to deferred taxes in the United States. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily with gross proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $78.5 million of convertible preferred stock, $22.5 million of term debt associated with the acquisition of the certain flash memory product assets from Atmel Corporation, net proceeds from our initial public offering on October 30, 2015 of $22.1 million, aggregate borrowings under our current term loan and line of credit facility of $16.6 million and net proceeds of $18.4 million from a follow-on equity offering on June 20, 2017. Our principal source of liquidity as of June 30, 2017 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $31.9 million. We did not have any borrowing capacity available under our term loan as of June 30, 2017. We had approximately $13,000 of additional borrowing capacity under our line of credit as of June 30, 2017. Our outstanding borrowings under this credit facility as of June 30, 2017 were $15.1 million. Substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents are held in the United States. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs over the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our spending to support research and development activities, the timing and cost of establishing additional sales and marketing capabilities, the introduction of new and enhanced products and our costs to implement new manufacturing technologies. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any additional debt financing obtained by us in the future could also involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Additionally, if we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary source of cash from operating activities has been from cash collections from our customers. We expect cash inflows from operating activities to be affected by increases in sales and timing of collections. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for personnel costs and investments in research and development and sales and marketing. Net cash used in operating activities for the periods presented consisted of net losses adjusted for certain noncash items and changes in working capital. Within changes in working capital, changes in accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable generally account for the largest adjustments, as we typically use more cash to fund accounts receivable and build inventory as our business grows. Increases in accounts payable typically provides more cash as we do more business with our contract foundries and other third parties, depending on the timing of payments. 29 During the six months ended June 30, 2017 , cash used in operating activities was approximately $1 .7 million and was due pri marily to a net loss of $4.5 million , partially of fs et by non-cash charges of $1 .8 million related to stock-based compensation expense , $0.6 million related to d ep reciation and amortization, $0.6 million related to amort ization of intangible assets, and an in crease in our net assets and liabilities of $0 . 3 million. The in crease in ass ets and liabili ties is due primarily to an in crease in accounts receivable of $2. 9 million, partially offset by a n in crease in accounts payable and accrued compensation of $2 .2 million , a de crease in deferred rent of $0. 2 million and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0. 2 million . During the six months ended June, 2016, cash used in operating activities was $4.8 million, primarily from a net loss of $5.8 million and the impact of a $2.0 million non-cash gain resulting from a settlement with a former foundry supplier partially offset by non-cash charges of $1.6 million related to stock based compensation expense and $1.0 million related to depreciation and amortization. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our investing activities consist primarily of purchases of property and equipment. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures to support continued growth of our business. During the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, cash used in investing activities was $1.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively, due to purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements related to our new headquarters facility in Santa Clara, CA. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2017, cash provided by financing activities was $15.6 million and was due primarily to proceeds from a follow-on offering of our common stock of $18.4 million, net of fees, and by net proceeds from our line of credit of $0.2 million offset in part by repayments on our term loan of $3.3 million. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, cash used in financing activities was $3.0 million due to principal payments on outstanding loan obligations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purpose. Credit Facility In July 2016, we entered into a business financing agreement ("Credit Facility") with a financial institution. The Credit Facility, as amended, provides for (i) a term loan of up to $18.0 million and (ii) a revolving credit line advance in the aggregate amount of the lower of (x) $2.0 million and (y) 80% of certain of our receivables. The term loan made pursuant to the Credit Facility bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the prime rate and 3.5%, plus 0.75%, and matures in June 2019. The line of credit bears interest at a rate per annual equal to the greater of the prime rate or 3.5% plus 0.50%, and matures in July 2018. We made interest-only payments on the term loan from July 2016 through September 2016 and began making principal and interest payments in 33 equal monthly installments starting October 2016. Indebtedness we incur under this agreement is collateralized by substantially all of our assets, subject to certain customary exceptions. We paid a facility fee of $150,000 as well as a $25,000 diligence fee upon entry into the Credit Facility and an additional $10,000 is due on July 7, 2017. The Credit Facility, as amended, contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants. Among other negative covenants, we may not (i) permit the ratio of the balance of unrestricted cash deposited at the financial institution, plus eligible receivables, net of reserve to the total amounts owed with respect to advances under the revolving credit line to be less than 1.50 for 1.00 and (ii) permit cash held at the financial institution in a deposit account to be less than 100% of the term loan outstanding. Upon an occurrence of an event of default, we could be required to pay interest on all outstanding obligations under the agreement at a rate of 5% above the otherwise applicable interest rate, and the lender may accelerate our obligations under the agreement. As of December 31, 2016, we were not in compliance with the financial covenants to maintain the maximum daily liquidity ratio, as defined in the agreement, during the months of August, September, October and November 2016. On February 13, 2017, the bank waived the Company's default as of December 31, 2016 under the Credit Facility. As of June 30, 2017, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions. The Credit Facility replaced our three-year $15.0 million credit agreement. On July 7, 2016, we terminated this credit agreement. In connection with termination and new borrowings under the new Credit Facility (as defined above), we paid off all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest, and fees under the term loan facility. 30 Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our contractual obligations and commitments as of June 30, 2017: (1) Operating leases primarily relate to our leases of office space with terms expiring through July 31, 2023. (2) Represents outstanding purchase orders for wafer commitments that we have placed with our suppliers as of June 30, 2017. (3) Financing arrangements represent debt maturities under our term loan and line of credit. (4) Represents our commitments under the CBRAM Joint Development and Manufacturing Agreement executed on February 18, 2016 with TowerJazz Panasonic Semiconductor Company. (5) Represents our commitments under the Licensing and Development Agreement executed on April 21, 2016 with Semitech Semiconductor Pty, Ltd. As of June 30, 2017, we had a liability of $32,000 for uncertain tax positions. 31