ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes "forward-looking" statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, our beliefs and our assumptions. These forward-looking statements include statements about our strategies, objectives and our future achievement. To the extent statements in this Quarterly Report involve, without limitation, our expectations for growth, estimates of future revenue, our sources and uses of cash, our liquidity needs, our current or planned clinical trials or research and development activities, product development timelines, our future products, regulatory matters, expense, profits, cash flow balance sheet items or any other guidance on future periods, these statements are forward-looking statements. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of word or phrases such as "believe," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and "would." These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and concern matters that could subsequently differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Except as may be required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this Report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements are identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Transition Report on Form 10- K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in the other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report as well as in other risks identified from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other communications. In addition, the statements contained throughout this Quarterly Report concerning future events or developments or our future activities, including concerning, among other matters, current or planned clinical trials, anticipated research and development activities, anticipated dates for commencement of clinical trials, anticipated completion dates of clinical trials, anticipated meetings with the FDA or other regulatory authorities concerning our product candidates, anticipated dates for submissions to obtain required regulatory marketing approvals, anticipated dates for commercial introduction of products, and other statements concerning our future operations and activities, are forward-looking statements that in each instance assume that we are able to obtain sufficient funding in the near term and thereafter to support such activities and continue our operations and planned activities in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that this will be the case. Also, such statements assume that there are no significant unexpected developments or events that delay or prevent such activities from occurring. Failure to timely obtain sufficient funding, or unexpected developments or events, could delay the occurrence of such events or prevent the events described in any such statements from occurring. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our," and "the Company" refer to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. General Company Overview We are an emerging pharmaceutical company focused on combining specialty pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to provide innovative medicines for patients and physicians. We are currently primarily focused on our specialty pharmaceutical products. We are currently developing several products in the allergy and respiratory markets, including our Epinephrine PFS product, for the emergency treatment of acute allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, and a dry powder inhaler technology. Our goal is to create low cost therapeutic alternatives to existing treatments. Consistent across all specialty pharmaceuticals product lines, we intend to submit Section505(b)(2) New Drug Applications, or NDAs, or Section 505(j) Abbreviated New Drug Applications or ANDAs, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, whenever possible, in order to potentially reduce the time to market and to save on costs, compared to those associated with Section 505(b)(1) NDAs for new drug products. We also have a number of biotechnology product candidates and technologies, including therapeutic vaccine and cancer product candidates and technologies intended to treat patients with unmet medical needs in the global cancer market. To achieve our goals and support our overall strategy, we will need to raise a substantial amount of funding and make significant investments in equipment, new product development and working capital. 13 Recent Developments Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 0.3mg Pre-filled Single Dose Syringe On May28, 2014, we submitted a Section 505(b)(2) NDA application to the FDA for approval for sale of our Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 0.3mg Pre-filled Single Dose Syringe, or the Epinephrine PFS product. The Epinephrine PFS product delivers a premeasured dose of epinephrine for the emergency treatment of anaphylaxis. On March 27, 2015, we issued a press release announcing that we received a Complete Response Letter ("CRL") from the FDA regarding our NDA for the Epinephrine PFS product. A CRL is issued by the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research when it has completed its review of a file and questions remain that preclude the approval of the NDA in its current form. The questions raised by the FDA in the CRL pertained to Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls ("CMC") relating to the volume of dose delivered by the syringe, including the ability of the Epinephrine PFS product as designed and manufactured as described in the NDA to deliver volume of epinephrine within the levels contained in the labeling claim and as required by the FDA. No other safety or efficacy issues were raised, and the NDA will remain open until the CMC issues are resolved. The letter indicated that the agency had reserved comment, if any, on the proposed labeling for the product until the application was otherwise adequate. Following receipt of the CRL, the Company has had communications with the FDA, including a telephonic meeting with the FDA on August 5, 2015, and is continuing its review of the CRL. The Company is taking a number of actions, including changes to the performance, size and functionality of the product,that the Company believes may be responsive to the items raised in the CRL, with the goal of preparing and submitting an amendment of the NDA to the FDA before the end of 2015, assuming successful and timely continued product development efforts. Under the FDA's procedures concerning target response times, the Company believes that the FDA should respond to an additional submission by the Company within six months after the Company's responsive submission, though that target deadline may be extended if FDA requests additional data, information, materials or clarification or for other reasons, such as difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting, FDA workload issues, or other reasons. The Company remains committed to attempting to obtain FDA approval of the NDA for the Epinephrine PFS product and commercializing the product, and remains hopeful that the issues and questions raised by the FDA in the CRL will be satisfactorily addressed and the product ultimately approved for marketing. However, the Company cannot provide any assurances concerning when it will make any additional submission, whether the FDA will agree that any resubmission of the NDA by the Company satisfactorily addresses the matters noted in the CRL, whether the FDA will raise other issues relating to the NDA, what actions will be required in order to satisfy the FDA's issues and questions, and whether the Epinephrine PFS product will ultimately be commercialized. In addition, the Company may be required to devote additional cash resources, which could be significant, in order to respond to the issues raised by the FDA in the CRL and any follow-up requests and to design and manufacture the Epinephrine PFS product in a manner that complies with the FDA requirements. APC-1000 The Company is continuing development of the APC-1000 product candidate, a steroid hydrofluoroalkane, or HFA, metered dose inhaler product for asthma. Following discussions with the FDA and additional consideration of the development pathway for the product, the Company has decided to conduct additional development work for APC-1000 during 2015. As a result, the Company will likely not file an investigational new drug application, or IND, or commence a clinical study regarding APC-1000 during 2015 but intends, depending on the outcome of several factors including results of the additional development work and obtaining additional funding that will be required to commence a trial, to submit an IND for APC-1000 during the first half of 2016, although there can be no assurances concerning the timing of any such filing or the commencement of a clinical trial relating to APC-1000 after submission of such an IND. Going Concern and Management Plan Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a "going concern" explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the nine-month transition period ended December31, 2014 and fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 indicating that we have sustained substantial losses from continuing operations and have used, rather than provided, cash in its continuing operations, and incurred recurring losses from operations and have limited working capital to pursue our business alternatives, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of September 30, 2015, we had cash of approximately $6.3 million, an accumulated deficit of approximately $65.4 million, and liabilities of approximately $2.2 million. We will need significant funding to continue operations, satisfy our obligations and fund the future expenditures that will be required to conduct the clinical and regulatory work to develop and launch our product candidates. Such additional funding may not be available, may not be available on reasonable terms, and could result in significant additional dilution to our stockholders. If we do not obtain required additional equity or debt funding, our cash resources will be depleted and we could be required to materially reduce or suspend operations, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have business relationships, at least until additional funding is obtained. 14 The above conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein for the three months and nine months ended September30, 2015, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities during the normal course of business. In preparing these condensed consolidated financial statements, consideration was given to our future business as described elsewhere herein, which may preclude us from realizing the value of certain assets. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. This basis of accounting contemplates the recovery of our assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, sales or out-licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, after expenditure of our existing cash resources we would exhaust our resources and would be unable to continue operations. Our management intends to attempt to secure additional required funding through equity or debt financings, sales or out-licensing of intellectual property assets, seeking partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or third parties to co-develop and fund research and development efforts, or similar transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any required additional funding. If we are unsuccessful in securing funding from any of these sources, we will defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures and delay development or commercialization of some or all of our products. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue operations, we could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives that could result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us. Results of Operations Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 and 2014 Revenues. Adamis had no revenues during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Research and Development Expenses. Our research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $3,807,000 and $2,717,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to the additional expense in product development, consisting mostly of expenditures related to product testing and product validation of approximately $456,000 relating to our Epinephrine PFS, APC-3000 and APC-5000 product candidates. Compensation expense, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual, increased by approximately $596,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the comparable period of the prior year because of salary increase, new hires, additional stock option grants and monthly accrual of bonus. Travel and other expenses increased by approximately $40,000 in the first nine months of 2015 compared to the comparable period in 2014 as a result of visits to vendors. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, legal fees, accounting and audit fees, professional/consulting fees and employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 were approximately $7,180,000 and $3,690,000, respectively. The increase in expense was primarily due to the activities related to the anticipated commercialization of Epinephrine PFS product, including approximately $1,073,000 of expenses relating to market research, training, branding, marketing and distribution strategies and payments to third party consultants and contractors pursuant to agreements relating to the foregoing, and approximately $1,155,000 increase in compensation expense for Sales and Marketing employees, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual. Compensation expense for General and Administrative employees increased by approximately $1,006,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily due to salary increases, new hires, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Other increases in expenditures for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014 included increases in SEC reporting and other related expenses of approximately $67,000, board of directors' fees of approximately $169,000, insurance cost of approximately $41,000, accounting and legal expenses of approximately $55,000 and rent of approximately $69,000. These increases were partially offset bya decrease of $146,000 in amortization expense because of an asset that was fully amortized in 2014. Other Income (Expense). Other income for the nine month period ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $1,053,000 and approximately $(152,000), respectively. Other Income (Expense) consists primarily of a change in fair value of warrants, change in fair value of derivative liabilities, gain in extinguishment of debt, and interest expense. The net change in fair value of warrants and derivatives resulted in an income of approximately $1,053,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to income of approximately $21,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The fluctuation in the valuation of the warrants and warrant derivatives was primarily due to the drop in exercise pricefrom $5.95 to $3.40 in August 2014 and the changes in stock price, term and volatility. Debt related expense (Interest Expense and Gain in Extinguishment of Debt) for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 were approximately $0 and $172,000, respectively. The decrease in debt related expenses for the nine month period ended September 30, 2015, in comparison to the same period for fiscal 2014 was due to the full payment of the debt balance in 2014. 15 Three Months Ended September30, 2015 and 2014 Revenues. Adamis had no revenues during the three month periods ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Research and Development Expenses. Our research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $1,183,000 and $598,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to the additional expense in product development, consisting mostly of expenditures related to product testing and product validation of approximately $372,000 relating to our Epinephrine PFS, APC-3000 and APC-5000 product candidates. Compensation expense, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual, increased by approximately $205,000 for the three month period ended September 30, 2015 compared to the comparable period of the prior year because of salary increases, new hire, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Travel and other expenses increased by approximately $8,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the comparable period of 2014 as a result of visits to vendors. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, legal fees, accounting and audit fees, professional/consulting fees and employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 were approximately $2,125,000 and $1,344,000, respectively. The increase in expense was primarily due to the activities related to the anticipated commercialization of the Epinephrine PFS product candidate, including approximately $108,000 of expenses relating to market research, training, branding, marketing and distribution strategies and payments to third party consultants and contractors pursuant to agreements relating to the foregoing, and approximately $442,000 increase in compensation expense for Sales and Marketing employees, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual. Compensation expense for General and Administrative employees increased by approximately $449,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily due to salary increases, new hires, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Other increases in expenditures for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the comparable quarter in 2014 included increases in board of directors' fees of approximately $56,000.An offset to the increase in expenses was the reduction of approximately $49,000 in amortization of an asset whose value was fully amortized in 2014, a decrease in travel expenses by approximately $19,000 and a decrease in accounting and legal expenses by approximately $207,000 due to the decrease in patent costs and reduced legal activities for the three month periodended September 30, 2015 compared to the comparable period of the prior year. Other Income (Expense). Other expense for the three month period ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $159,000 and approximately $(183,000), respectively. Other Income (Expense) consists primarily of a change in fair value of warrants and change in fair value of derivative liabilities. The net change in fair value of warrants and derivatives resulted in an income of approximately $159,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015, compared to the expense of approximately $183,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014. The fluctuation in the valuation of warrants and warrant derivatives was primarily due to the drop in exercise price from $5.95 to $3.40 in August 2014 and the changes in stock price, term andvolatility. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses of approximately $9.9 million and $6.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Since inception, and through September 30, 2015, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $65.4 million. Since inception and through September 30, 2015 we have financed our operations principally through debt financing, through private issuances of common stock and preferred stock, and through underwritten public offerings of common stock. Since inception, we have raised a total of approximately $71.8 million in debt and equity financing transactions, consisting of approximately $15.8 million in debt financing and approximately $56.0 million in equity financing transactions. We expect to finance future cash needs primarily through proceeds from equity or debt financings, loans, sales of assets, out-licensing transactions, and/or collaborative agreements with corporate partners. We have used the net proceeds from debt and equity financings for general corporate purposes, which have included funding for research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, working capital, reducing indebtedness, pursuing and completing licenses, acquisitions or investments in other businesses, products or technologies, and for capital expenditures. Total assets were approximately $14.6 million and $12.9 million as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. All liabilities are classified as current. Current assets exceed current liabilities by approximately $4.1 million and $0.6 million as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. Net cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, was approximately $8.1 million and $6.2 million, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities increased due to additional research and development costs, and increases in Selling, General & Administrative expenses. 16 Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $10.6 million and $7.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Net cash flows provided by financing activities increased primarily due to the issuance of common stock in January 2015 that generated net proceeds of approximately $10.6 million. As noted above under the heading "Going Concern and Management Plan," through September30, 2015, Adamis had incurred substantial losses. The availability of any required additional funding cannot be assured. If we do not obtain additional equity or debt funding in the near future, our cash resources will be depleted and we will be required to materially reduce or suspend operations. Even if are successful in obtaining additional funding to permit us to continue operations at the levels that we desire, substantial time will pass before we obtain regulatory marketing approval for any products and begin to realize revenues from product sales, and during this period Adamis will require additional funds. No assurance can be given as to the timing or ultimate success of obtaining future funding. As noted under the heading Recent Developments, the Company will be required to devote additional cash resources, which could be significant, in order to respond to the issues and questions raised by the FDA in the CRL regarding our Epinephrine PFS product and to continue development of our other product candidates. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's critical accounting policies and estimates previously disclosed in our Transition Report on Form 10-K for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2014 have not significantly changed, and no additional policies have been adopted during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenuefrom Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in "Accounting Standard Codification 605 - Revenue Recognition" and most industry-specific guidance. The standard requires that entities recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which a company expects to be entitled in exchange for goods or services. ASU 2014-09 permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of Effective Date." ASU 2015-14 defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that period. The Company is currently assessing the impact of adopting ASU 2014-09 and ASU 2015-14 on its consolidated financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At September 30, 2015, Adamis did not have any off balance sheet arrangements.ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes "forward-looking" statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, our beliefs and our assumptions. These forward-looking statements include statements about our strategies, objectives and our future achievement. To the extent statements in this Quarterly Report involve, without limitation, our expectations for growth, estimates of future revenue, our sources and uses of cash, our liquidity needs, our current or planned clinical trials or research and development activities, product development timelines, our future products, regulatory matters, expense, profits, cash flow balance sheet items or any other guidance on future periods, these statements are forward-looking statements. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of word or phrases such as "believe," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and "would." These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and concern matters that could subsequently differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Except as may be required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this Report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements are identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10- K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in the other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report as well as in other risks identified from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other communications. In addition, the statements contained throughout this Quarterly Report concerning future events or developments or our future activities, including concerning, among other matters, current or planned clinical trials, anticipated research and development activities, anticipated dates for commencement of clinical trials, anticipated completion dates of clinical trials, anticipated meetings with the FDA or other regulatory authorities concerning our product candidates, anticipated dates for submissions to obtain required regulatory marketing approvals, anticipated dates for commercial introduction of products, and other statements concerning our future operations and activities, are forward-looking statements that in each instance assume that we are able to obtain sufficient funding in the near term and thereafter to support such activities and continue our operations and planned activities in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that this will be the case. Also, such statements assume that there are no significant unexpected developments or events that delay or prevent such activities from occurring. Failure to timely obtain sufficient funding, or unexpected developments or events, could delay the occurrence of such events or prevent the events described in any such statements from occurring. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our," and "the Company" refer to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. General Company Overview We are an emerging pharmaceutical company focused on combining specialty pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to provide innovative medicines for patients and physicians. We are currently primarily focused on our specialty pharmaceutical products. We are currently developing several products in the allergy and respiratory markets, including a dry powder inhaler that we acquired from 3M Company. Our goal is to create low cost therapeutic alternatives to existing treatments. Consistent across all specialty pharmaceuticals product lines, we intend to submit Section505(b)(2) New Drug Applications, or NDAs, or Section 505(j) Abbreviated New Drug Applications or ANDAs, regulatory approval filings with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, whenever possible, in order to potentially reduce the time to market and to save on costs, compared to those associated with Section 505(b)(1) NDAs for new drug products. Our US Compounding, Inc. subsidiary, which is registered as a drug compounding outsourcing facility under Section 503B of the U.S. Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, provides prescription medications to patients, physician clinics, hospitals, surgery centers and other clients throughout most of the United States. We also have a number of biotechnology product candidates and technologies, including therapeutic vaccine and cancer product candidates and technologies for patients with unmet medical needs in the global cancer market. 15 Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 0.3mg Pre-filled Single Dose Syringe On May28, 2014, we submitteda Section 505(b)(2) NDA application to the FDA for approval for sale of our Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 0.3mg Pre-filled Single Dose Syringe, or the Epinephrine PFS product. The Epinephrine PFS product delivers a premeasured dose of epinephrine for the emergency treatment of acute allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. We received a complete response letter ("CRL") from the FDA on March 27, 2015. A CRL is issued by the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research when it has completed its review of a file and questions remain that preclude the approval of the NDA in its current form. We resubmitted the NDA on December 4, 2015. The FDA subsequently confirmed that it considered the resubmission to be a complete class 2 response to the CRL, and pursuant to guidelines under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act ("PDUFA"), provided a PDUFA target response date of June 4, 2016 for the agency's response to the resubmission. Under goals established in connection with PDUFA, the FDA's guidance for the review and acting on Class 2 NDA resubmissions, such as the Company's resubmitted NDA relating to the PFS product, is six months from the date of receipt of the resubmission. However, the FDA's review processes can extend beyond, and in some cases significantly beyond, anticipated completion dates due to the timing of the FDA's review process, FDA requests for additional data, information, materials or clarification, difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting, FDA workload issues, extensions resulting from the submission of additional information or clarification regarding information already in the submission within the last three months of the target PDUFA date, or other reasons. As a result, the dates of regulatory approval, if obtained, and commercial introduction of our product could be delayed beyond our expectations. There are no assurances that the FDA will grant marketing approval for our PFS product on or shortly after June 4, 2016, or at all. APC-1000 The Company is continuing development of the APC-1000 product candidate, a steroid hydrofluoroalkane, or HFA, metered dose inhaler product for asthma. Following discussions with the FDA and additional consideration of the development pathway for the product, the Company decided to conduct additional development work for APC-1000. As a result, the Company intends, depending on the outcome of several factors including results of the additional development work and obtaining additional funding that will be required to commence a trial, to submit an IND for APC-1000 during the second half of 2016, although there can be no assurances concerning the timing of any such filing or the commencement of a clinical trial relating to APC-1000 after submission of such an IND. APC-5000 The Company is continuing development of the APC-5000 product candidate, a dry powder inhaler or DPI product for asthma and COPD. We currently have no in-house manufacturing capabilities, so we intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture the components and materials needed to produce APC-5000 DPI, as well as manufacture and assemble the APC-5000 DPI product. The Company intends to file an investigational new drug application, or IND, to initiate the clinical development of APC-5000, depending on the outcome of several factors, including the outcome of discussions with the FDA, results of additional development work and obtaining additional funding that will be required to commence a trial. There can be no assurances concerning the timing, if any, of any such filing or the commencement of a clinical trial relating to APC-5000 after submission of such an IND. 16 Recent Developments Acquisition of U.S. Compounding, Inc. As previously disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, on April 11, 2016, we completed our acquisition of U.S. Compounding, Inc., an Arkansas corporation ("USC'), pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 28, 2016 (the "Merger Agreement"), with USC. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, a newly-created merger subsidiary of the Company merged with and into USC (the "Merger"), with USC surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. All of the outstanding shares of common stock of USC were converted into the right to receive a total of approximately 1,618,540 shares of Adamis common stock. In addition, in connection with the transaction, we assumed approximately $5,722,500 principal amount of debt obligations under certain loan agreements and related agreements and documents of USC and certain related entities. License Agreement On May 9, 2016, the Company entered into a Development, License and Commercialization Agreement (the "Agreement") with Allergan plc's wholly owned subsidiary, Watson Laboratories, Inc. ("Licensee"), regarding the Company's Epinephrine Pre-filled Syringe ("PFS") product candidate for the emergency treatment of anaphylaxis. Additional information regarding the Agreement is contained in Note 8 to the financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-Q. There can be no assurances (i) that the FDA will approve the Company's NDA relating to the PFS product to which the Agreement relates, (ii) that Licensee will not terminate the Agreement if the FDA does not grant marketing approval for the PFS product within the periods described in the Agreement, (iii) that even if the FDA does grant marketing approval for the PFS product that Licensee will not terminate the Agreement for one or more other reasons permitted by the Agreement before the Company has received any royalty payments or additional milestone payments, (iv) that unexpected labeling, manufacturing, supply or other regulatory issues will not arise, (v) that Licensee will commercially introduce and market the PFS product even if approved, (vi) that the product will be commercially successful if introduced, or (vii) that any of the milestone payments contemplated by the Agreement will be made to the Company. Going Concern and Management's Plan Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a "going concern" explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December31, 2015 and nine-month transition period ended December 31, 2014 indicating that we have sustained substantial losses from continuing operations and have used, rather than provided, cash in its continuing operations, and incurred recurring losses from operations and have limited working capital to pursue our business alternatives, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of March 31, 2016, we had cash of approximately $4.4 million, an accumulated deficit of approximately $75.4 million, and liabilities of approximately $4.0 million. We will need significant funding to continue operations, satisfy our obligations and fund the future expenditures that will be required to conduct the clinical and regulatory work to develop and launch our product candidates. Such additional funding may not be available, may not be available on reasonable terms, and could result in significant additional dilution to our stockholders. If we do not obtain required additional equity or debt funding, our cash resources will be depleted and we could be required to materially reduce or suspend operations, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have business relationships, at least until additional funding is obtained. 17 The above conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein for the three months March 31, 2016, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities during the normal course of business. In preparing these condensed consolidated financial statements, consideration was given to our future business as described elsewhere herein, which may preclude us from realizing the value of certain assets. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, sales or out-licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, after expenditure of our existing cash resources we would exhaust our resources and would be unable to continue operations. Our management intends to attempt to secure additional required funding through equity or debt financings, sales or out-licensing of intellectual property assets, seeking partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or third parties to co-develop and fund research and development efforts, or similar transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any required additional funding. If we are unsuccessful in securing funding from any of these sources, we will defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures, delay development or commercialization of some or all of our products and might not be able to support the operations of our newly acquired company, USC. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue operations, we could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives that could result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Revenues. Adamis had no revenues during the three month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Research and Development Expenses. Our research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $3,401,000 and $1,355,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to the additional expense in product development, consisting mostly of expenditures related to product testing and product validation of approximately $1,973,000 relating to our Epinephrine PFS, APC-2000 and APC-5000 product candidates. Compensation expense, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual, increased by approximately $64,000 for the three month period ended March 31, 2016 compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2015 because of salary increases, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, legal fees, accounting and audit fees, professional/consulting fees and employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $2,616,000 and $2,794,000, respectively. The decrease in expense was primarily due to the decline in spending related to the commercialization of the Epinephrine PFS product candidate of approximately $598,000 of expenses relating to market research, training, branding, marketing and distribution strategies and payments to third party consultants and contractors pursuant to agreements relating to the foregoing, and approximately $17,000 decrease in expenses related to consulting, data processing and expensed equipment. An offset to the decrease in expenses was the increase in compensation expense of the Selling, General and Administrative employees of approximately $343,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily due to new hires in mid-March 2015, salary increases, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. The increase in expenditures for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2015 was also due to the increase of approximately $95,000 in legal expenses relating to the acquisition of US Compounding, Inc. Other Income (Expense). Other expense for the three month period ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $(391,000) and $1,007,000, respectively. Other Income (Expense) consists primarily of a change in fair value of warrants and change in fair value of derivative liabilities. The net change in fair value of warrants and derivatives resulted in an expense of approximately $391,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the income of approximately $1,007,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The fluctuation in the valuation of warrants and warrant derivatives was primarily due to the change in stock price between quarters combined with the changes in the term andvolatility. 18 Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses of approximately $6.4 million and $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Since inception, and through March 31, 2016, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $75.4 million. Since inception and through March 31, 2016 we have financed our operations principally through debt financing, through private issuances of common stock and preferred stock, and through underwritten public offerings of common stock. Since inception, we have raised a total of approximately $76.8 million in debt and equity financing transactions, consisting of approximately $15.8 million in debt financing and approximately $61.0 million in equity financing transactions. We expect to finance future cash needs primarily through proceeds from equity or debt financings, loans, sales of assets, out-licensing transactions, and/or collaborative agreements with corporate partners. We have used the net proceeds from debt and equity financings for general corporate purposes, which have included funding for research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, working capital, reducing indebtedness, pursuing and completing licenses, acquisitions or investments in other businesses, products or technologies, and for capital expenditures. Total assets were approximately $12.7 million and $12.1 million as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. All liabilities are classified as current. Current assets exceed current liabilities by approximately $1.0 million and $1.4 million as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, was approximately $4.7 million and $3.2 million, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities increased due to additional research and development costs, and slight decrease in Selling, General & Administrative expenses. 19 Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $5.0 million and $10.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net cash flows provided by financing activities decreased primarily due to the issuance of common stock in January 2015 that generated net proceeds of approximately $10.6 million, compared to the net proceeds of approximately $5.0 million generated from the issuance of preferred stock in January 2016. As noted above under the heading "Going Concern and Management Plan," through March 31, 2016, Adamis had incurred substantial losses. The availability of any required additional funding cannot be assured. If we do not obtain additional equity or debt funding, our cash resources will be depleted and we will be required to reduce or suspend operations. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional funding to permit us to continue operations at the levels that we desire, substantial time may pass before we obtain regulatory marketing approval for any of our product candidates and begin to realize revenues from sales of such products, and during this period Adamis will require additional funds to continue operations and development of our product candidates. No assurance can be given as to the timing or ultimate success of obtaining future funding. As we have previously disclosed in our SEC filings, in connection with our acquisition of USC and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement relating to the USC transaction, we assumed approximately $5,722,500 principal amount of debt obligations under certain loan agreements and related agreements and documents of USC and certain related entities (the "Existing Loan Documents"), and agreed to become an additional co-borrower under such Existing Loan Documents. The borrowers under these Existing Loan Documents, which include USC and us, among other parties, are required to make current periodic interest and principal payments under the Existing Loan Documents, in an amount of approximately $32,000 per month. We also entered into a loan and security agreement with the lender under the Existing Loan Documents, Bear State Bank, N.A. (the "Lender" or the "Bank"), pursuant to which we may borrow up to an aggregate of $2,000,000 to provide working capital to USC, subject to the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. Interest on amounts borrowed under our loan agreement with the Bank accrues at a rate equal to the prime interest rate, as defined in the agreement. Interest payments are required to be made quarterly. The entire outstanding principal balance, and all accrued and unpaid interest and all other sums payable pursuant to the loan documents, are due and payable on March 1, 2017, or sooner upon the occurrence of certain events as provided in the loan agreement and related documents. Our obligations under our loan agreement are secured by certain collateral, including without limitation our interest in amounts that we have loaned to USC, and a warrant that we issued to the Bank to purchase up to 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price equal to par value per share, exercisable only if we are in default under the loan agreement or related loan documents. In connection with the closing of the USC Merger, we entered into a Loan Amendment, Forbearance and Assumption Agreement (the "Loan Amendment Agreement") with the Bank and certain other parties. Pursuant to the Loan Amendment Agreement, we were added as a "Borrower" under the Existing Loan Documents described above and assumed all of the rights, duties, liabilities and obligations as a Borrower and a party under the Existing Loan Documents. In addition, in recognition of the fact that the loans made by the Bank under the Existing Loan Documents are currently in default with respect to certain nonmonetary covenants in the Existing Loan Documents, the Bank agreed that until October 31, 2016, and subject to compliance with the other provisions of the Loan Amendment Agreement, it would not pursue available remedies as a result of such noncompliance or demand payment under the promissory notes included in the Existing Loan Documents. In addition, in the Loan Amendment Agreement the Company and the Bank agreed to discuss in good faith mutually agreeable amendments or modifications to the Existing Loan Documents in light of the changes in circumstances resulting from the Merger and the transfer of the real property and equipment discussed above to Adamis and USC. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's critical accounting policies and estimates previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 have not significantly changed, and no additional policies have been adopted during the three months ended March 31, 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In April 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No.2016-10,Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing. ASU2016-10is intended to reduce the cost and complexity of applying the guidance in the FASB's new revenue standard on identifying performance obligations, and is also intended to improve the operability and understandability of the licensing implementation guidance. The effective date for ASU2016-10is the same as for ASU 2014-09, which will be our first quarter of fiscal 2018. We have not yet evaluated the impact of ASU 2014-09 on our financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,Compensation-Stock Compensation, which simplifies the accounting for the taxes related to stock based compensation, including adjustments to how excess tax benefits and a company's payments for tax withholdings should be classified. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that year, which will be fiscal 2017 for us. We do not expect adoption of ASU2016-09 to have a significant impact on our financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-08,Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Principal versus Agent Considerations. ASU2016-08 is intended to improve the operability and understandability of the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The effective date for ASU2016-08 is the same as for ASU2014-09, which will be our first quarter of fiscal 2018. We have not yet evaluated the impact of ASU2014-09 on our financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At March 31, 2016, Adamis did not have any off balance sheet arrangements.ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes "forward-looking" statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, our beliefs and our assumptions. These forward-looking statements include statements about our strategies, objectives and our future achievement. To the extent statements in this Quarterly Report involve, without limitation, our expectations for growth, estimates of future revenue, our sources and uses of cash, our liquidity needs, our current or planned clinical trials or research and development activities, product development timelines, our future products, regulatory matters, expense, profits, cash flow balance sheet items or any other guidance on future periods, these statements are forward-looking statements. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of word or phrases such as "believe," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and "would." These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and concern matters that could subsequently differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Except as may be required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this Report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in these forward-looking statements are in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10- K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report as well as other risks identified from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other communications. In addition, the statements contained throughout this Quarterly Report concerning future events or developments or our future activities, including concerning, among other matters, current or planned clinical trials, anticipated research and development activities, anticipated dates for commencement of clinical trials, anticipated completion dates of clinical trials, anticipated meetings with the FDA or other regulatory authorities concerning our product candidates, anticipated dates for submissions to obtain required regulatory marketing approvals, anticipated dates for commercial introduction of products, and other statements concerning our future operations and activities, are forward-looking statements that in each instance assume that we are able to obtain sufficient funding in the near term and thereafter to support such activities and continue our operations and planned activities in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that this will be the case. Also, such statements assume that there are no significant unexpected developments or events that delay or prevent such activities from occurring. Failure to timely obtain sufficient funding, or unexpected developments or events, could delay the occurrence of such events or prevent the events described in any such statements from occurring. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our," and "the Company" refer to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. 24 General Company Overview We are an emerging pharmaceutical company focused on combining specialty pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to provide innovative medicines for patients and physicians. We are currently primarily focused on our specialty pharmaceutical products. We are currently developing several products in the allergy and respiratory markets, including our Epinephrine PFS product, for the emergency treatment of acute allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis, and a dry powder inhaler technology. Our goal is to create low cost therapeutic alternatives to existing treatments. Consistent across all specialty pharmaceuticals product lines, we intend to submit Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications, or NDAs, or Section 505(j) Abbreviated New Drug Applications or ANDAs, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, whenever possible, in order to potentially reduce the time to market and to save on costs, compared to those associated with Section 505(b)(1) NDAs for new drug products. We also have a number of biotechnology product candidates and technologies, including therapeutic vaccine and cancer product candidates and technologies intended to treat patients with unmet medical needs in the global cancer market. To achieve our goals and support our overall strategy, we will need to raise a substantial amount of funding and make significant investments in equipment, new product development and working capital. Our USC subsidiary, which is registered as a drug compounding outsourcing facility under Section 503B of the U.S. Food, Drug &amp; Cosmetic Act and the U.S. Drug Quality and Security Act, provides prescription compounded medications, including compounded sterile preparations, and non-sterile compounds to patients, physician clinics, hospitals, surgery centers and other clients throughout most of the United States. USC's product offerings broadly include, among others, corticosteroids, hormone replacement therapies, hospital outsourcing products, injectables, urological preparations, ophthalmic preparations, topical compounds for pain and men's and women's health products. USC's compounded formulations in many circumstances are offered as therapeutic alternatives to drugs approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA. USC prepares and provides a broad range of customized stock keeping units to meet the individual requirements of customers located throughout most of the United States. USC also provides certain veterinary pharmaceutical products for animals. Segment Information The Company is engaged primarily in the discovery, development and sales of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other drug products. Accordingly, the Company has determined that it operates in one operating segment. 25 Recent Developments Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 0.3mg Pre-filled Single Dose Syringe On May 28, 2014, we submitted a Section 505(b)(2) NDA application to the FDA for approval for sale of our Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 0.3mg Pre-filled Single Dose Syringe, or the Epinephrine PFS product. The Epinephrine PFS product delivers a premeasured dose of epinephrine for the emergency treatment of acute allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. We received a complete response letter ("CRL") from the FDA on March 27, 2015. A CRL is issued by the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research when it has completed its review of a file and questions remain that preclude the approval of the NDA in its current form. We resubmitted the NDA on December 4, 2015. On June 6, 2016, we issued a press release announcing that we received a second Complete Response Letter from the FDA regarding our NDA for the Epinephrine PFS product. The CRL indicated that the FDA determined that it could not approve the NDA in its present form. The agency indicated that in order to support approval of the product, the Company must expand its human factors study (patient usability) and reliability study (product stress testing), with new studies, with protocols to be reviewed by the FDA before commencement of the studies. The CRL indicated that the new human factors study would need to provide additional, adequate and satisfactory data and information concerning, among other things, use of the product in different use environments and by different kinds of users and user groups. The CRL included comments on certain other aspects of the product and the materials and data submitted as part of the NDA. The CRL indicated that the agency had reserved comment, if any, on the proposed labeling for the product until the application was otherwise adequate. The FDA indicated that the NDA will remain open until the issues identified in the CRL are resolved. The Company is continuing to review the CRL and actions that may be responsive to the items raised in the CRL, and the Company plans to request a meeting with the FDA to discuss the CRL. Subsequent to the meeting with the FDA the Company plans to prepare and submit a response to the FDA that addresses the items raised in the CRL. Under the FDA's procedures concerning target response times, the Company believes that the FDA should respond to the Company's additional submission within six months after the Company's responsive submission, though that target deadline may be extended if FDA requests additional data, information, materials or clarification or for other reasons, such as difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting, FDA workload issues, or other reasons. The Company remains committed to attempting to obtain FDA approval of the NDA for the Epinephrine PFS product and commercializing the product, and remains hopeful that the issues and questions raised by the FDA in the CRL will be satisfactorily addressed and the product ultimately approved for marketing. However, the Company cannot provide any assurances concerning if or when the NDA will be approved, the timing or outcome of any meeting with the FDA concerning our NDA, what actions will be required in order to satisfy the FDA's issues and questions, and whether the Epinephrine PFS product will ultimately be commercialized. In addition, the Company will be required to devote additional cash resources, which could be significant, in order to respond to the issues raised by the FDA in the CRL and any follow-up requests and to design and manufacture the Epinephrine PFS product in a manner that is satisfactory to the FDA. APC-1000 The Company is continuing development of the APC-1000 product candidate, a steroid hydrofluoroalkane, or HFA, metered dose inhaler product for asthma. Following discussions with the FDA and additional consideration of the development pathway for the product, the Company has decided to conduct additional development work for APC-1000. As a result, the Company intends, depending on the outcome of several factors including results of the additional development work and obtaining additional funding that will be required to commence a trial, to submit an IND for APC-1000 during the first half of 2017, although there can be no assurances concerning the timing of any such filing or the commencement of a clinical trial relating to APC-1000 after submission of such an IND. 26 Going Concern and Management Plan Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a "going concern" explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 indicating that we have sustained substantial losses from continuing operations and have used, rather than provided, cash in its continuing operations, and incurred recurring losses from operations and have limited working capital to pursue our business alternatives, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of June 30, 2016, we had cash of approximately $417,000, an accumulated deficit of approximately $81.1 million, and liabilities of approximately $14.3 million. Even with the proceeds from our July 2016 private placement financing transaction and our recent registered direct offering of shares of common stock and warrants, we will need significant funding to continue operations, satisfy our obligations and fund the future expenditures that will be required to conduct the clinical and regulatory work to develop our product candidates and to support our other activities. Such additional funding may not be available, may not be available on reasonable terms, and could result in significant additional dilution to our stockholders. If we do not obtain required additional equity or debt funding, our cash resources will be depleted and we could be required to materially reduce or suspend operations, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have business relationships, at least until additional funding is obtained. The above conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2016, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities during the normal course of business. In preparing these condensed consolidated financial statements, consideration was given to our future business as described elsewhere herein, which may preclude us from realizing the value of certain assets. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. This basis of accounting contemplates the recovery of our assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, sales or out-licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, after expenditure of our existing cash resources we would exhaust our resources and would be unable to continue operations. Our management intends to attempt to secure additional required funding through equity or debt financings, sales or out-licensing of intellectual property assets, seeking partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or third parties to co-develop and fund research and development efforts, or similar transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any required additional funding. If we are unsuccessful in securing funding from any of these sources, we will defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures and delay development or commercialization of some or all of our products. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue operations, we could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives that could result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us. 27 Results of Operations Six Months Ended June30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues . Revenues were approximately $1,928,000 and $0 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The revenues for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016, consist of and reflect our acquisition of USC effective April 11, 2016, but do not include revenues of USC before the closing date of the acquisition. Revenues for the six-month period were adversely affected by the suspension of production of USC's sterile compounded formulations, product recall and remediation efforts in the third and fourth quarters of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. USC resumed production and sales of compounded sterile formulations in March and April 2016. The suspension of production and sales of compounded sterile formulations adversely affected USC's relationships with certain of its customers and with certain of USC's independent contractors and sales representatives, and is expected to continue to adversely affect sales of compounded sterile compounded formulations. Cost of Sales. Cost of sales were approximately $1,346,000 and $0 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our cost of sales includes direct and indirect costs to manufacture formulations and sell products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, personnel costs, packaging, storage, shipping and handling costs, the write-off of obsolete inventory and other related expenses. 28 Research and Development Expenses . Our research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $6,831,000 and $2,625,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to the additional expense in product development, consisting mostly of expenditures related to clinical trials, product testing and product validation of approximately $3,652,000 relating to our Epinephrine PFS product candidate, APC-2000 and APC-5000 product candidates and somewhat offset by a reduction on development costs of our APC 1000 and APC 3000 product candidates. Compensation expense, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual, increased by approximately $542,000 for the first half of 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year because of salary increase, new hires, additional stock option grants and monthly accrual of bonus. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, legal fees, accounting and audit fees, professional/consulting fees and employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $7,199,000 and $5,055,000, respectively. The increase was primarily due to expenses of approximately $2,004,000 relating to our USC subsidiary which we acquired in April 2016. Expenses related to the commercialization activities of Epinephrine PFS product candidate decreased by approximately $617,000 for the first six months of the year compared to the comparable period of 2015. Compensation expense for selling, general and administrative employees increased by approximately $480,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily due to salary increases, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Other increases in expenditures for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 included increase in board of directors' fees of approximately $24,000 and insurance costs of approximately $60,000, and expenses of approximately $257,000 incurred in connection with the acquisition of U.S. Compounding, Inc. Legal expenses decreased by approximately $64,000 during the six month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the comparable period of 2015 primarily due to FDA related matters, patents and commercialization related contracts. Other Income (Expense) . Other income for the six month period ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $1,325,000 and approximately $894,000, respectively. Other Income (Expense) consists primarily of a change in fair value of warrants, change in fair value of derivative liabilities, and interest expense. The net change in fair value of warrants and derivatives resulted in an income of approximately $1,397,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016, compared to income of approximately $894,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The cancellation of the liability classified warrants resulted in the recognition of the recorded liability to income. Debt related expense (Interest Expense) for the six month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $72,000 and $0, respectively. The increase in debt related expenses for the six month period ended June 30, 2016, in comparison to the same period for fiscal 2015 was due to the working capital loan of $2.0 million and other bank liabilities assumed in relation to the acquisition of USC in April 2016. 29 Three Months Ended June30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues . Revenues were approximately $1,928,000 and $0 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The revenues for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016, consist of and reflect our acquisition of USC effective April 11, 2016, but do not include revenues of USC before the closing date of the acquisition. Revenues for the three-month period were adversely affected by the suspension of USC's sterile compounded formulations, product recall and remediation efforts in the third and fourth quarters of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. USC resumed production and sales of compounded sterile formulations in March and April 2016. The suspension of production and sales of compounded sterile formulations adversely affected USC's relationships with certain of its customers and with certain of USC's independent contractors and sales representatives, and is expected to continue to adversely affect sales of compounded sterile compounded formulations. Cost of Sales. Cost of sales were approximately $1,346,000 and $0 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our cost of sales includes direct and indirect costs to manufacture formulations and sell products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, personnel costs, packaging, storage, shipping and handling costs, the write-off of obsolete inventory and other related expenses. 30 Research and Development Expenses . Our research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $3,430,000 and $1,270,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to additional expense in product development, consisting mostly of expenditures related to product testing and product validation of approximately $1,674,000. Compensation expense, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual, increased by approximately $478,000 for the three month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily due to salary increases, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, legal fees, accounting and audit fees, professional/consulting fees and employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $4,583,000 and $2,262,000, respectively. The increase was primarily due to our USC subsidiary that we acquired during the second quarter of 2016, of approximately $2,004,000. Expenses related to the commercialization activities related to Epinephrine PFS product decreased by approximately $19,000. Compensation expense for selling, general and administrative employees increased by approximately $136,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily due to salary increases, new hires, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Other increases in expenditures for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the comparable quarter in 2015 included increase in insurance costs of approximately $54,000, USC acquisition related expenses of approximately $62,000 and increase of approximately $84,000 in other expenses in relation to SEC and proxy expenses, franchise tax, board of directors' fees, patent cost and upgrade of telephones, file sharing service and data server. Other Income (Expense) . Other income (expense) for the three month period ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $1,717,000 and approximately ($113,000), respectively. Other Income (Expense) consists primarily of a change in fair value of warrants, change in fair value of derivative liabilities and interest expense. The net change in fair value of warrants and derivatives resulted in an income of approximately $1,789,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016, compared to expense of approximately $113,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015. The cancellation of the liability classified warrants resulted in the recognition of the recorded liability to income. Interest expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $72,000 and $0, respectively. The increase in debt related expenses for the three month period ended June 30, 2016, in comparison to the same period for fiscal 2015 was due to the working capital loan of $2.0 million and other bank liabilities assumed in relation to the acquisition of USC in April 2016. 31 Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses of approximately $12.1 million and $6.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Since inception, and through June 30, 2016, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $81.1 million. Since inception and through June 30, 2016 we have financed our operations principally through debt financing, through private issuances of common stock and preferred stock, and through underwritten public offerings of common stock. Since inception and through June 30, 2016, we have raised a total of approximately $79.0 million in debt and equity financing transactions, consisting of approximately $17.8 million in debt financing and approximately $61.2 million in equity financing transactions. We expect to finance future cash needs primarily through proceeds from equity or debt financings, loans, sales of assets, out-licensing transactions, and/or collaborative agreements with corporate partners. We have used the net proceeds from debt and equity financings for general corporate purposes, which have included funding for research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, working capital, reducing indebtedness, pursuing and completing licenses, acquisitions or investments in other businesses, products or technologies, and for capital expenditures. Total assets were approximately $29.4 million and $12.1 million as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Current liabilities exceed current assets by approximately $11.8 million at June 30, 2016. Net cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, was approximately $11.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities increased due to additional research and development costs, and increases in SG&amp;A expenses. Net cash provided by investing activities was approximately $365,000 and $0 for six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net cash provided by investing activities increased due to the cash received from the acquisition of USC. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $7.1 million and $10.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net cash flows provided by financing activities decreased due to the issuance of common stock in January 2015 that generated net proceeds of approximately $10.6 million whereas, in 2016, capital raised from issuance of preferred stock and warrant conversion totaled $5.1 million and proceeds of bank loan amounted to $2 million. As noted above under the heading "Going Concern and Management Plan," through June 30, 2016, Adamis had incurred substantial losses. The availability of any required additional funding cannot be assured. If we do not obtain additional equity or debt funding in the near future, our cash resources will be depleted and we will be required to materially reduce or suspend operations. Even if are successful in obtaining additional funding to permit us to continue operations at the levels that we desire, substantial time will pass before we obtain regulatory marketing approval for any products and begin to realize revenues from product sales, and during this period Adamis will require additional funds. No assurance can be given as to the timing or ultimate success of obtaining future funding. As noted under the heading Recent Developments, the Company will be required to devote additional cash resources, which could be significant, in order to respond to the issues and questions raised by the FDA in the CRL regarding our Epinephrine PFS product and to continue development of our other product candidates including APC-1000 and APC-5000, and to support our other operations and activities. 32 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's critical accounting policies and estimates previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 have not significantly changed except for the following policies that have been adopted during the six months ended June 30, 2016. Revenue Recognition The Company recognize revenues when all of the following criteria have been met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred; (3) the selling price is fixed and determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Revenues from our USC subsidiary consist of sales of compounded drugs for humans and animals, including sterile injectable and non-sterile integrative therapies. Sales discounts and rebates are sometimes offered to customers if specified criteria are met. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are reported at the amount management expects to collect on outstanding balances. Management provides for probable uncollectible amounts through a charge to earnings and credit to allowance for doubtful accounts. Uncollectible amounts are based on USC's history of past write-offs and collections and current credit conditions. Provision for bad debt totaled $15,563 for the period ended June 30, 2016. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The cost of inventories are determined using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method. Inventories consist of compounding formulation raw materials, currently marketed products, and device supplies. A reserve for obsolescence is recorded monthly based on a review of inventory for obsolescence. Reserve for obsolescence was $20,253 as of June 30, 2016. Acquisitions and Intangibles The Company has engaged in business combination activity. The accounting for business combinations requires management to make judgments and estimates of the fair value of assets acquired, including the identification and valuation of intangible assets, as well as liabilities assumed. Such judgments and estimates directly impact the amount of goodwill recognized in connection with each acquisition, as goodwill presents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of its net tangible and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets Goodwill, which has an indefinite useful life, represents the excess of cost over fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur indicating the potential for impairment. During its goodwill impairment review, the Company may assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. The qualitative factors include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, and the overall financial performance of the Company. If, after assessing the totality of these qualitative factors, the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then no additional assessment is deemed necessary. Otherwise, the Company proceeds to perform the two-step test for goodwill impairment. The first step involves comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the Company performs the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of loss, which involves comparing the implied fair value of the goodwill to the carrying value of the goodwill. The Company may also elect to bypass the qualitative assessment in a period and elect to proceed to perform the first step of the goodwill impairment test. The Company evaluates its long-lived assets with definite lives, such as property and equipment, acquired technology, customer relationships, patent and license rights, for impairment by considering competition by products prescribed for the same indication, the likelihood and estimated future entry of non-generic and generic competition with the same or similar indication and other related factors. The factors that drive the estimate of the life are often uncertain and are reviewed on a periodic basis or when events occur that warrant review. Recoverability is measured by comparison of the assets' book value to future net undiscounted cash flows that the assets are expected to generate. Claims Liabilities USC is self-insured up to certain limits for health insurance. Provisions are made for both the estimated liabilities for known claims as incurred and estimates for those incurred but not reported. As of June 30, 2016, the Company was self-insured for up to the first $40,000 of claims per covered person with an aggregate deductible of $626,445. The estimated IBNR (Incurred But Not Reported) provided by the plan administrator was $77,818 at June 30, 2016. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. We maintain a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset due to uncertainty regarding the future realization based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. Until such time as we can demonstrate that we will no longer incur losses, or if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, we could be required to maintain the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. 33 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11 Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory which requires entities to measure most inventory "at the lower of cost and net realizable value ("NRV")," thereby simplifying the current guidance under which an entity must measure inventory at the lower of cost or market. Under the new guidance, inventory is "measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value," which eliminates the need to determine replacement cost and evaluate whether it is above the ceiling (NRV) or below the floor (NRV less a normal profit margin). The guidance defines NRV as the "estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation." The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods therein. Early application is permitted. We have not yet evaluated the impact of ASU No. 2015-11 on our financial statements. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients. ASU No. 2016-12 is a response to concerns brought up by the Joint Transaction Resource Group for Revenue Recognition (TRG). The Update is intended to improve Topic 606 (Revenue from Contracts with Customers) by reducing the potential for diversity in practice and application, and the complexity of application. The effective date for ASU No. 2016-12 defers the effective date for Update 2014-09 (Fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2017) by one year, which will be fiscal 2018 for us. We do not expect adoption of ASU No. 2016-12 to have a significant impact on our financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses. ASU No. 2016-13 is intended to provide users of financial statements with more decision-useful information about credit losses on financial instruments that are expected, but do not yet meet the "probable" threshold. This Update replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses. The effective date that applies to SEC filers for ASU No. 2016-13 is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. We have not yet evaluated the impact of ASU No. 2016-13 on our financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At June 30, 2016, Adamis did not have any off balance sheet arrangements.ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes "forward-looking" statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, our beliefs and our assumptions. These forward-looking statements include statements about our strategies, objectives and our future achievement. To the extent statements in this Quarterly Report involve, without limitation, our expectations for growth, estimates of future revenue, our sources and uses of cash, our liquidity needs, our current or planned clinical trials or research and development activities, product development timelines, our future products, regulatory matters, expense, profits, cash flow balance sheet items or any other guidance on future periods, these statements are forward-looking statements. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of word or phrases such as "believe," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and "would." These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and concern matters that could subsequently differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Except as may be required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this Report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements are identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10- K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in the other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report as well as in other risks identified from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other communications. In addition, the statements contained throughout this Quarterly Report concerning future events or developments or our future activities, including concerning, among other matters, current or planned clinical trials, anticipated research and development activities, anticipated dates for commencement of clinical trials, anticipated completion dates of clinical trials, anticipated meetings with the FDA or other regulatory authorities concerning our product candidates, anticipated dates for submissions to obtain required regulatory marketing approvals, anticipated dates for commercial introduction of products, and other statements concerning our future operations and activities, are forward-looking statements that in each instance assume that we are able to obtain sufficient funding in the near term and thereafter to support such activities and continue our operations and planned activities in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that this will be the case. Also, such statements assume that there are no significant unexpected developments or events that delay or prevent such activities from occurring. Failure to timely obtain sufficient funding, or unexpected developments or events, could delay the occurrence of such events or prevent the events described in any such statements from occurring. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our," and "the Company" refer to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. General Company Overview We are an emerging pharmaceutical company focused on combining specialty pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to provide innovativemedicines for patients and physicians. We are currently primarily focused on our specialty pharmaceutical products. We are currently developingseveral products in the allergy and respiratory markets, including our Epinephrine PFS product, for the emergency treatment of acute allergic reactions,including anaphylaxis, and a dry powder inhaler technology. Our goal is to create low cost therapeutic alternatives to existing treatments. Consistentacross all specialty pharmaceuticals product lines, we intend to submit Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications, or NDAs, or Section 505(j)Abbreviated New Drug Applications or ANDAs, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, whenever possible, in order to potentially reducethe time to market and to save on costs, compared to those associated with Section 505(b)(1) NDAs for new drug products. We also have a number ofbiotechnology product candidates and technologies, including therapeutic vaccine and cancer product candidates and technologies intended to treatpatients with unmet medical needs in the global cancer market. To achieve our goals and support our overall strategy, we will need to raise asubstantial amount of funding and make significant investments in equipment, new product development and working capital. Our USC subsidiary, which is registered as a drug compounding outsourcing facility under Section 503B of the U.S. Food, Drug & CosmeticAct and the U.S. Drug Quality and Security Act, provides prescription compounded medications, including compounded sterile preparations, and nonsterilecompounds to patients, physician clinics, hospitals, surgery centers and other clients throughout most of the United States. USC's productofferings broadly include, among others, corticosteroids, hormone replacement therapies, hospital outsourcing products, injectables, urologicalpreparations, ophthalmic preparations, topical compounds for pain and men's and women's health products. USC's compounded formulations in manycircumstances are offered as therapeutic alternatives to drugs approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA. USC prepares andprovides a broad range of customized stock keeping units to meet the individual requirements of customers located throughout most of the UnitedStates. USC also provides certain veterinary pharmaceutical products for animals. Segment Information The Company is engaged primarily in the discovery, development and sales of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other drug products.Accordingly, the Company has determined that it operates in one operating segment. 20 Recent Developments Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 0.3mg Pre-filled Single Dose Syringe On May 28, 2014, we submitted a Section 505(b)(2) NDA application to the FDA for approval for sale of our Epinephrine Injection USP 1:10000.3mg Pre-filled Single Dose Syringe, or the Epinephrine PFS product. The Epinephrine PFS product delivers a premeasured dose of epinephrine forthe emergency treatment of acute allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis. We received a complete response letter ("CRL") from the FDA on March27, 2015. A CRL is issued by the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research when it has completed its review of a file and questions remain thatpreclude the approval of the NDA in its current form. We resubmitted the NDA on December 4, 2015. On June 6, 2016, we issued a press release announcing that we received a second Complete Response Letter from the FDA regarding our NDAfor the Epinephrine PFS product. The CRL indicated that the FDA determined that it could not approve the NDA in its present form. The agencyindicated that in order to support approval of the product, the Company must expand its human factors study (patient usability) and reliability study(product stress testing), with new studies, with protocols to be reviewed by the FDA before commencement of the studies. The CRL indicated that thenew human factors study would need to provide additional, adequate and satisfactory data and information concerning, among other things, use of theproduct in different use environments and by different kinds of users and user groups. The CRL included comments on certain other aspects of theproduct and the materials and data submitted as part of the NDA. The CRL indicated that the agency had reserved comment, if any, on the proposedlabeling for the product until the application was otherwise adequate. The FDA indicated that the NDA will remain open until the issues identified inthe CRL are resolved. The Company is continuing to review the CRL and actions that may be responsive to the items raised in the CRL. The Company has been in communication with the FDA regarding the CRL and plans to prepare and submit a response tothe FDA that will be intended to address the items raised in the CRL. Under the FDA's procedures concerning target response times, the Company believes that theFDA should respond to the Company's additional submission within six months after the Company's responsive submission, though that targetdeadline may be extended if FDA requests additional data, information, materials or clarification or for other reasons, such as difficulties scheduling anadvisory committee meeting, FDA workload issues, or other reasons. The Company remains committed to attempting to obtain FDA approval of theNDA for the Epinephrine PFS product and commercializing the product, and remains hopeful that the issues and questions raised by the FDA in theCRL will be satisfactorily addressed and the product ultimately approved for marketing. However, the Company cannot provide any assurancesconcerning if or when the NDA will be approved and whether the Epinephrine PFS product will ultimately be commercialized. In addition,the Company will be required to devote additional cash resources, which could be significant, in order to respond to the issues raised by the FDA in theCRL and any follow-up requests and to design and manufacture the Epinephrine PFS product in a manner that is satisfactory to the FDA. APC-1000 The Company is continuing development of the APC-1000 product candidate, a steroid hydrofluoroalkane, or HFA, metered dose inhalerproduct for asthma. Following discussions with the FDA and additional consideration of the development pathway for the product, the Company hasdecided to conduct additional development work for APC-1000. As a result, the Company intends, depending on the outcome of several factorsincluding results of the additional development work and obtaining additional funding that will be required to commence a trial, to submit an IND forAPC-1000 during the first half of 2017, although there can be no assurances concerning the timing of any such filing or the commencement of aclinical trial relating to APC-1000 after submission of such an IND. Termination of License Agreements Relating to Vaccine and Cancer Technologies As has been disclosed in the Company's previous filings, the Company has previously entered into a number of license agreements pursuant to which the Company has acquired license rights regarding patent rights relating to a number of potential therapeutic vaccine and cancer product candidate technologies. In April 2010, the Company acquired rights as licensee under three exclusive license agreements (the "WARF Agreements") with the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation ("WARF") regarding certain prostate cancer technologies and product candidates, named APC-100, APC-200 and APC-300. In April 2011, the Company entered into an exclusive license agreement (the "UC/DF Agreement") with The Regents of the University of California ("UCSD") and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Inc. ("DFCI"), pursuant to which the Company licensed certain patent rights relating to a telomerase-based cancer vaccine technology. The Company has also disclosed in its previous filings that it is currently primarily focused on its specialty pharmaceutical products and compounding pharmacy operations and does not intend to devote material financial resources for research and development of its licensed cancer and biotechnology product candidates and technologies. On November 10, 2016, the Company delivered a notice of termination to UCSD and DFCI of the UC/DF Agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, the notice of termination is effective 90 days after delivery. Also on November 10, 2016, the Company delivered a notice of termination to WARF of the WARF Agreements, which such termination to be effective 90 days after delivery of the notice. These agreements permit either party to terminate the agreements upon prior notice to the other party, without termination fees or penalties. As a result of termination of these agreements, the Company will not be responsible after the effective date of termination for minimum annual payments under the agreements or for payment of patent-related fees and costs relating to the licensed patents and technologies. As part of the winding up and termination process, the Company is responsible for certain expenses and costs incurred through the effective date of termination, and certain provisions of the agreements survive the termination or expiration of the agreements. Going Concern and Management Plan Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a "going concern" explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidatedfinancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 and the nine-month transition period ended December 31, 2014 indicating that we have sustained substantial losses from continuing operationsand have used, rather than provided, cash in its continuing operations, and incurred recurring losses from operations and have limited working capitalto pursue our business alternatives, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of September 30, 2016,we had cash of approximately $8,811,000, including the $1.0 million in restricted cash, an accumulated deficit of approximately $87.8 million, and liabilities of approximately $12.0 million. Evenwith the proceeds from our July 2016 private placement financing transaction and our registered direct offering of shares of common stock andwarrants, we will need significant funding to continue operations, satisfy our obligations and fund the future expenditures that will be required toconduct the clinical and regulatory work to develop our product candidates and to support our other activities. Such additional funding may not beavailable, may not be available on reasonable terms, and could result in significant additional dilution to our stockholders. If we do not obtain requiredadditional equity or debt funding, our cash resources will be depleted and we could be required to materially reduce or suspend operations, whichwould likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have businessrelationships, at least until additional funding is obtained. The above conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The condensed consolidated financial statementsincluded elsewhere herein for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2016, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue ouroperations as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities during the normal course of business. Inpreparing these condensed consolidated financial statements, consideration was given to our future business as described elsewhere herein, which maypreclude us from realizing the value of certain assets. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments thatmay result from the outcome of this uncertainty. This basis of accounting contemplates the recovery of our assets and the satisfaction of liabilities inthe normal course of business. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, sales or out-licenses of intellectual property ortechnologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, after expenditure of our existing cash resources we would exhaust our resourcesand would be unable to continue operations. Our management intends to attempt to secure additional required funding through equity or debt financings, sales or out-licensing of intellectualproperty assets, seeking partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or third parties to co-develop and fund research and development efforts, orsimilar transactions. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any required additional funding. If we are unsuccessful insecuring funding from any of these sources, we will defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures and delay development orcommercialization of some or all of our products. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue operations, we could be required to seek bankruptcyprotection or other alternatives that could result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us. 21 Results of Operations Nine Months Ended September30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues Revenues were approximately $4,004,000 and $0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The revenues for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, consist of and reflect our acquisition of USC effective April 11, 2016, but do not include revenues of USC before the closing date of the acquisition. Revenues for the nine-month period were adversely affected by the suspension of USC's sterile compounded formulations, product recall and remediation efforts in the third and fourth quarters of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. USC resumed production and sales of compounded sterile formulations in March and April 2016. The suspension of production and sales of compounded sterile formulations adversely affected USC's relationships with certain of its customers and with certain of USC's independent contractors and sales representatives, and is expected to continue to adversely affect sales of compounded sterile formulations. Cost of Sales Cost of sales were approximately $3,167,000 and $0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We did not incur any cost of sales for the nine-month period of 2015, as we did not have any revenues for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2015, and our acquisition of USC was completed in April 2016. The cost of sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was affected by an obsolescence expense of approximately $182,000 as a result of a surplus in production of sterile products in mid-March to April 2016, when USC resumed the production of sterile products, in anticipation of a larger number of customer orders following the resumption of sterile production than actually occurred before the products became obsolete. Moreover, some chemicals in inventory intended for sterile products had expired before the chemicals could be used. Our cost of sales includes direct and indirect costs to manufacture formulations and sell products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, personnel costs, packaging, storage, shipping and handling costs, the write-off of obsolete inventory and other related expenses. Research and Development Expenses Our research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $8,325,000 and $3,807,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to the additional expense in product development, consisting mostly of expenditures related to product testing and product validation of approximately $4,422,000 relating to our Epinephrine PFS, APC-2000, APC-5000, and APC 100 product candidates and an initial trial relating to a veterinary product candidate, and an increase in regulatory fees. These amounts were somewhat offset by a reduction in development costs for our APC 3000, APC 1000 and TeloB-VAX product candidates of approximately $548,000. Compensation expense, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual, increased by approximately $605,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily as a result of salary increases and additional options granted. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, legal fees, accounting and audit fees, professional/consulting fees and employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $12,535,000 and $7,180,000, respectively. The increase was primarily due to expenses of approximately $5,403,000 relating to our USC subsidiary which we acquired in April 2016, including acquisition related expenses. Expenses related to the commercialization activities of our Epinephrine PFS product candidate decreased by approximately $686,000 for the first nine months of the year compared to the comparable period of 2015. Compensation expense for General and Administrative employees increased by approximately $537,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily due to salary increases, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Other increases in expenditures for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 included increases of approximately $100,000 for insurance, board of directors' fees and an increase in legal, accounting recruitment, SEC reporting fees, travel and other expenses. Other Income (Expense) Other income for the nine month period ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $1,256,000 and approximately $1,053,000, respectively. Other Income (Expense) consists primarily of a change in fair value of warrants, change in fair value of derivative liabilities, and interest expense. The net change in fair value of warrants and derivatives resulted in an income of approximately $1,397,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to income of approximately $1,053,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The fluctuation in the valuation of the warrants and warrant derivatives was primarily due to the changes in stock price, term and volatility. Debt related expense (Interest Expense) for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $143,000 and $0, respectively. The increase in debt related expenses for the nine month period ended September 30, 2016, in comparison to the same period for fiscal 2015 was due to the working capital loan of $2.0 million and other bank liabilities assumed in relation to the acquisition of USC in April 2016. 22 Three Months Ended September30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues Revenues were approximately $2,076,000 and $0 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The revenues for the three-month period ended September 30, 2016, consist of and reflect our acquisition of USC effective April 11, 2016, and only include revenues of USC for the three-month period ended September 30, 2016. Revenues for the three-month period were adversely affected by the suspension of USC's sterile compounded formulations, product recall and remediation efforts in the third and fourth quarters of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. USC resumed production and sales of compounded sterile formulations in March and April 2016. The suspension of production and sales of compounded sterile formulations adversely affected USC's relationships with certain of its customers and with certain of USC's independent contractors and sales representatives, and is expected to continue to adversely affect sales of compounded sterile formulations. Cost of Sales Cost of sales were approximately $1,821,000 and $0 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We did not incur any cost of sales for the three-month period of 2015, as we did not have any revenues for the three-month period ended September 30, 2015, and our acquisition of USC was completed in April 2016. The cost of sales for the three months ended September 30, 2016, was affected by an obsolescence expense of approximately $153,000 as a result of a surplus in production of sterile products in mid-March to April 2016, when USC resumed the production of sterile products, in anticipation of a larger number of customer orders following the resumption of sterile production than actually occurred before the products became obsolete. Moreover, some chemicals in inventory intended for sterile products had expired before the chemicals could be used. Our cost of sales includes direct and indirect costs to manufacture formulations and sell products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, personnel costs, packaging, storage, shipping and handling costs, the write-off of obsolete inventory and other related expenses. Research and Development Expenses Our research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $1,494,000 and $1,183,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to the additional expense in product development, consisting mostly of expenditures related to product testing and product validation of approximately $230,000. Compensation expense, which includes salaries, stock options, employee benefits and bonus accrual, increased by approximately $63,000 for the three month period ended September 30, 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year because of salary increases, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, legal fees, accounting and audit fees, professional/consulting fees and employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were approximately $5,335,000 and $2,125,000, respectively. The increase was primarily due to expenses related with our USC subsidiary that we acquired during the second quarter of 2016, of approximately $3,057,000. Expenses related to the anticipated commercialization of the Epinephrine PFS product candidate decreased approximately $84,000 compared to the comparable period of the prior year. Compensation expense for General and Administrative employees increased by approximately $93,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the comparable period of the prior year, primarily due to salary increases, additional stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Other increases in expenditures for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the comparable quarter in 2015 included USC acquisition related and other expenses of approximately $106,000 and increase of approximately $113,000 in relation to legal, accounting, recruitment, SEC reporting fees, board of directors' fees, and patent expenses, which were somewhat offset by a reduction of approximately $75,000 in consulting and other expenses. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) for the three month period ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately ($69,000) and approximately $159,000, respectively. Other Income (Expense) consists primarily of a change in fair value of warrants and change in fair value of derivative liabilities. The net change in fair value of warrants and derivatives resulted in an income of $0 for the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to an income of approximately $159,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $70,000 and $0. The increase in debt related expenses for the three month period ended September 30, 2016, in comparison to the same period for fiscal 2015 was due to the working capital loan of $2.0 million and other bank liabilities assumed in relation to the acquisition of USC in April 2016. 23 Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses of approximately $18.8 million and $9.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Since inception, and through September 30, 2016, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $87.8 million. Since inception and through September 30, 2016 we have financed our operations principally through debt financing, through private issuances of common stock and preferred stock, and through underwritten public offerings of common stock. Since inception, we have raised a total of approximately $95 million in debt and equity financing transactions, consisting of approximately $17.8 million in debt financing and approximately $77.2 million in equity financing transactions. We expect to finance future cash needs primarily through proceeds from equity or debt financings, loans, sales of assets, out-licensing transactions, and/or collaborative agreements with corporate partners. We have used the net proceeds from debt and equity financings for general corporate purposes, which have included funding for research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, working capital, reducing indebtedness, pursuing and completing licenses, acquisitions or investments in other businesses, products or technologies, and for capital expenditures. Total assets were approximately $36.7 million and $12.0 million as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. All liabilities are classified as current. Current assets exceeded current liabilities by approximately $1.9 million at September 30, 2016. Current assets exceeded current liabilities by approximately $1.4 million as of December 31, 2015. Net cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, was approximately $17.9 million and $8.1 million, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities increased due to additional research and development costs, and increases in selling, general &amp; administrative expenses. Net cash provided by investing activities was approximately $365,000 and $0 for nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net cash provided by investing activities increased due to the cash received from the acquisition of USC. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $21.2 million and $10.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net cash flows provided by financing activities increased primarily due to the issuance of common stock, preferred stock and proceeds of a bank loan in 2016 that generated net proceeds of approximately $22 million, and an offset of approximately $1.0 million of restricted cash for the certificate of deposit held as collateral by the bank. As noted above under the heading "Going Concern and Management Plan," through September 30, 2016, Adamis had incurred substantial losses. The availability of any required additional funding cannot be assured. If we do not obtain additional equity or debt funding in the near future, our cash resources will be depleted and we will be required to materially reduce or suspend operations. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional funding to permit us to continue operations at the levels that we desire, substantial time will pass before we obtain regulatory marketing approval for any products and begin to realize revenues from product sales, and during this period Adamis will require additional funds. No assurance can be given as to the timing or ultimate success of obtaining future funding. As noted under the heading Recent Developments, the Company will be required to devote additional cash resources, which could be significant, in order to respond to the issues and questions raised by the FDA in the CRL regarding our Epinephrine PFS product and to continue development of our other product candidates including APC-1000 and APC-5000, and to support our other operations and activities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's critical accounting policies and estimates previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 have not significantly changed except for the following policies that have been adopted during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenues when all of the following criteria have been met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred; (3) the selling price is fixed and determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Revenues from our USC subsidiary consist of sales of compounded drugs for humans and animals, including sterile injectable and non-sterile integrative therapies. Sales discounts and rebates are sometimes offered to customers if specified criteria are met. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. Cost of Sales Our cost of sales includes direct and indirect costs to manufacture formulations and sell products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, personnel costs, packaging, storage, royalties, shipping and handling costs, the write-off of obsolete inventory and other related expenses. 24 A ccounts Receivable Accounts receivable are reported at the amount management expects to collect on outstanding balances. Management provides for probable uncollectible amounts through a charge to earnings and credit to allowance for doubtful accounts. Uncollectible amounts are based on USC's history of past write-offs and collections and current credit conditions. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. The cost of inventories are determined using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method. Inventories consist of compounding formulation raw materials, currently marketed products, and device supplies. A reserve for obsolescence is recorded monthly based on a percentage of raw materials and finished goods inventory. Acquisitions and Intangibles The Company has engaged in business combination activity. The accounting for business combinations requires management to make judgments and estimates of the fair value of assets acquired, including the identification and valuation of intangible assets, as well as liabilities assumed. Such judgments and estimates directly impact the amount of goodwill recognized in connection with each acquisition, as goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of its net tangible and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets Goodwill, which has an indefinite useful life, represents the excess of purchase consideration over fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur indicating the potential for impairment. During its goodwill impairment review, the Company may assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. The qualitative factors include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, and the overall financial performance of the Company. If, after assessing the totality of these qualitative factors, the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then no additional assessment is deemed necessary. Otherwise, the Company proceeds to perform the two-step test for goodwill impairment. The first step involves comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the Company performs the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of loss, which involves comparing the implied fair value of the goodwill to the carrying value of the goodwill. The Company may also elect to bypass the qualitative assessment in a period and elect to proceed to perform the first step of the goodwill impairment test. The Company evaluates its long-lived assets with definite lives, such as property and equipment, acquired technology, customer relationships, patent and license rights, for impairment by considering competition by products prescribed for the same indication, the likelihood and estimated future entry of non-generic and generic competition with the same or similar indication and other related factors. The factors that drive the estimate of the life are often uncertain and are reviewed on a periodic basis or when events occur that warrant review. Recoverability is measured by comparison of the assets' book value to future net undiscounted cash flows that the assets are expected to generate. Claims Liabilities USC is self-insured up to certain limits for health insurance. Provisions are made for both the estimated liabilities for known claims as incurred and estimates for those incurred but not reported. As of September 30, 2016, the Company was self-insured for up to the first $40,000 of claims per covered person with an aggregate deductible of $766,497. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the tax basis of such assets and liabilities. The Company maintains a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty regarding the future realization of such assets, which is based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. Until such time as the Company can demonstrate that it will no longer incur losses, or if the Company is unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, it could be required to maintain the valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. 25 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU No. 2016-15 is intended to provide guidance to eight specific cash flow issues. The amendments have been issued as an improvement to GAAP because they provide guidance for each of the eight issues, thereby reducing the current and potential future diversity in practice described above. The amendments in this update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim fiscal periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. We do not expect adoption of ASU No. 2016-15 to have a significant impact on our financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At September 30, 2016, Adamis did not have any off balance sheet arrangements.ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information Relating to Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes "forward-looking" statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry, our beliefs and our assumptions. These forward-looking statements include statements about our strategies, objectives and our future achievement. To the extent statements in this Quarterly Report involve, without limitation, our expectations for growth, estimates of future revenue, our sources and uses of cash, our liquidity needs, our current or planned clinical trials or research and development activities, product development timelines, our future products, regulatory matters, expense, profits, cash flow balance sheet items or any other guidance on future periods, these statements are forward-looking statements. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of word or phrases such as "believe," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," and "would." These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and concern matters that could subsequently differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Except as may be required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this Report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements are identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in the most recent Annual Report on Form 10- K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in the other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report as well as in other risks identified from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other communications. In addition, the statements contained throughout this Quarterly Report concerning future events or developments or our future activities, including concerning, among other matters, current or planned clinical trials, anticipated research and development activities, anticipated dates for commencement of clinical trials, anticipated completion dates of clinical trials, anticipated meetings with the FDA or other regulatory authorities concerning our product candidates, anticipated dates for submissions to obtain required regulatory marketing approvals, anticipated dates for commercial introduction of products, and other statements concerning our future operations and activities, are forward-looking statements that in each instance assume that we are able to obtain sufficient funding in the near term and thereafter to support such activities and continue our operations and planned activities in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that this will be the case. Also, such statements assume that there are no significant unexpected developments or events that delay or prevent such activities from occurring. Failure to timely obtain sufficient funding, or unexpected developments or events, could delay the occurrence of such events or prevent the events described in any such statements from occurring. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our," and "the Company" refer to Adamis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. General Company Overview We are a specialty biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing products in the therapeutic areas of respiratory disease and allergy. We are currently developing several products in the allergy and respiratory markets, including our Epinephrine Injection pre-filled syringe, or PFS, product for use in the emergency treatment of acute allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis; albuterol (APC-2000) and fluticasone (APC-4000) Dry Powder Inhaler, or DPI, products for the treatment of bronchospasm and asthma, respectively; and beclomethasone (APC-1000), a metered dose inhaler product for the treatment of asthma. Our goal is to create low cost therapeutic alternatives to existing treatments. Consistent across all specialty pharmaceuticals product lines, we intend to submit Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications, or NDAs, or Section 505(j) Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, whenever possible, in order to potentially reduce the time to market and to save on costs, compared to those associated with Section 505(b)(1) NDAs for new drug products. Our U.S. Compounding, Inc. subsidiary, which is registered as a drug compounding outsourcing facility under Section 503B of the U.S. Food, Drug &amp; Cosmetic Act, as amended and the U.S. Drug Quality and Security Act, or DQSA, compounds sterile prescription drugs, and certain nonsterile drugs, to patients, physician clinics, hospitals, surgery centers and other clients throughout most of the United States. 17 Epinephrine Injection USP 1:1000 0.3mg Pre-Filled Single Dose Syringe On May 28, 2014, we submitted a Section 505(b)(2) NDA application to the FDA for approval of our Epinephrine PFS product candidate. We received a complete response letter, or CRL, from the FDA on March 27, 2015. A CRL is issued by the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research when it has completed its review of a file and questions remain that preclude the approval of the NDA in its current form. We resubmitted the NDA on December 4, 2015. On June 3, 2016, we received a second CRL from the FDA regarding our resubmitted NDA. The CRL indicated that the FDA determined that it could not approve the NDA in its present form. The agency indicated that in order to support approval of the product candidate, the Company must expand its human factors studies. The CRL indicated that new human factors studies would need to provide additional, adequate and satisfactory data and information concerning, among other things, use of the product candidate in different use environments and by different kinds of users and user groups. The CRL included comments on certain other aspects of the product candidate and the materials and data submitted as part of the NDA. The CRL indicated that the agency had reserved comment, if any, on the proposed labeling for the product candidate until the application was otherwise approvable. The FDA indicated that the NDA will remain open until the issues identified in the CRL are resolved. On December 15, 2016, we resubmitted our NDA to the FDA. The resubmission was intended to address the issues raised by the FDA in the June 2016 CRL. On January 19, 2017, we announced that the FDA had accepted for review our resubmitted NDA. The FDA indicated that it considered the resubmission to be a complete response to the CRL. As of the date of filing of this quarterly report, we are not aware of any additional requests by the agency for information that we have not previously responded to and provided in connection with our resubmitted NDA. There are no assurances that the FDA will approve the resubmitted NDA and grant marketing approval for the Epinephrine PFS product candidate. If the FDA approves the NDA, we hope to receive an approval in time to permit first commercial sales to commencesometime in the third quarter of 2017, although there are no assurances that this will be the case. Under goals established in connection with the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, the FDA's guidance for the review and acting on Class 2 NDA resubmissions is six months from the date of receipt of the resubmission. However, the FDA's review processes can extend beyond, and in some cases significantly beyond, anticipated completion dates due to the timing of the FDA's review process, issuance of an additional CRL, FDA requests for additional data, information, materials or clarification, difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting, FDA workload issues, extensions resulting from the submission of additional information or clarification regarding information already in the submission within the last three months of the target PDUFA date, or other reasons. As a result, the dates of regulatory approval, if obtained, and commercial introduction of our product could be delayed beyond our expectations. 18 Going Concern and Management's Plan O ur independent registered public accounting firm has included a "going concern" explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 indicating that we have sustained substantial losses from continuing operations and have used, rather than provided, cash in our continuing operations, and incurred recurring losses from operations and have limited working capital to pursue our business alternatives. As of March 31, 2017, we had cash of approximately $1.4 million, including approximately $1.0 million in restricted cash, an accumulated deficit of approximately $94.2 million, and liabilities of approximately $12.8 million. As noted below under the heading "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and in Note 11 to the financial statements appearing elsewhere herein, in April 2017, we completed an underwritten public offering of shares of common stock resulting in estimated net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses, of approximately $16.1 million. However, we will need significant funding to continue operations, satisfy our obligations and fund the future expenditures that will be required to conduct the clinical and regulatory work to develop and launch our product candidates. Such additional funding may not be available, may not be available on reasonable terms, and could result in significant additional dilution to our stockholders. If we do not obtain required additional equity or debt funding, our cash resources will be depleted and we could be required to materially reduce or suspend operations, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price and our relationships with third parties with whom we have business relationships, at least until additional funding is obtained. The above conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein for the three months ended March 31, 2017, were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities during the normal course of business. In preparing these condensed consolidated financial statements, consideration was given to our future business as described elsewhere herein, which may preclude us from realizing the value of certain assets. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Without additional funds from debt or equity financing, sales of assets, sales or out-licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or from a business combination or a similar transaction, after expenditure of our existing cash resources we would exhaust our resources and would be unable to continue operations. O ur management intends to attempt to secure additional required funding through equity or debt financings, sales or out-licensing of intellectual property assets, seeking partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies or third parties to co-develop and fund research and development efforts, or similar transactions, and through revenues from sales of compounded sterile formulations. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any required additional funding. If we are unsuccessful in securing funding from any of these sources, we will defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures, delay development or commercialization of some or all of our products and reduce the scope of our operations. If we do not have sufficient funds to continue operations, we could be required to seek bankruptcy protection or other alternatives that could result in our stockholders losing some or all of their investment in us. 19 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Revenues. Revenues were approximately $3,038,000 and $0 for the three month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase in revenue was due entirely to revenues from sales of compounded pharmaceutical drugs by our U.S. Compounding, Inc. subsidiary, which we acquired in April 2016. Cost of Sales. Cost of sales was approximately $1,665,000 and $0 for the three month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We did not incur any cost of sales for the three month period ended March 31, 2016, as the acquisition of USC was completed in April 2016. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Non-refundable advance payments for goods and services to be used in future research and development activities are recorded as an asset and are expensed when the research and development activities are performed. Research and development costs were approximately $1,510,000 and $3,401,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in research and development expenses was primarily due to a reduction of approximately $2,168,000 in development costs of our product candidates, including our Dry Powder Inhaler (DPI) products, Epinephrine PFS, APC 2000, APC 100, and TeloBVax product candidates. This amount was offset by an increase of approximately $198,000 in development costs attributed to the APC 1000 product candidate, and by an increase of approximately $9,000 in research and development expenditures relating to compounded formulation drugs, consulting and regulatory expenses. Compensation expense increased approximately $70,000 during the three month period compared to the first quarter of 2016 due to the hiring of additional employees and an increase in options expense. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. S elling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization, legal fees, accounting and audit fees, professional/consulting fees and employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, were approximately $5,573,000 and $2,616,000, respectively. The increase was primarily due to approximately $3,080,000 of expenses relating to USC which we acquired in April 2016, after the end of our first quarter ended March 31, 2016. Expenses related to the commercialization activities of the Epinephrine PFS product candidate decreased by approximately $208,000 for the first quarter of 2017 compared to the comparable period of 2016. Compensation expense for General and Administrative employees increased by approximately $164,000 for the three month period ended March 31, 2017, compared to the comparable period of 2016, primarily due to salary increases, stock options granted and monthly accrual of bonus. Other increases in expenditures for the first quarter of 2017 compared to the comparable quarter of 2016 included increases of approximately $93,000 for insurance and increases in finance and accounting related expenses, partially offset by a decrease of approximately $172,000 in expenses related to business development, IT consulting, legal and patent expenses, taxes, directors and executive expenses, selling and commercial operation travel and office expenses. Other Expense. O ther Expense for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, was approximately $63,000 and $391,000, respectively. Other Expense consists primarily of interest expense, change in fair value of warrants and change in fair value of derivative liabilities. The reduction in other expenses was primarily due to the exercise and cancellation of warrants and derivatives in 2016 which account for the approximately $391,000 expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016, partially offset by the debt related expense (Interest Expense) of approximately $67,000 for the three month period ended March 31, 2017 and approximately $0 for the comparable period in 2016. The increase in debt related expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2017, compared to the comparable period in 2016 was due to interest payments related to the working capital loan in the principal amount of $2.0 million and other bank liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition of USC in April 2016. 20 Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses of approximately $5.8 million and $6.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Since inception, and through March 31, 2017, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $94.2 million. Since inception and through March 31, 2017, we have financed operations principally through debt financing, through private issuances of common stock and preferred stock, and through public offerings of common stock. We have primarily devoted our resources for general corporate purposes, which have included funding for research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses, working capital, reducing indebtedness, pursuing and completing acquisitions or investments in other businesses, products or technologies, and for capital expenditures. In April 2017, we completed an underwritten public offering of 4,928,572 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $3.50 per share, resulting in net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses, of approximately $16.1 million. As part of our acquisition of USC in April of 2016, we assumed debt of approximately $5.7 million and entered into a secured $2 million line of credit agreement. We expect to finance future cash needs primarily through proceeds from equity or debt financings, loans, sales of assets, out-licensing transactions, and/or collaborative agreements with corporate partners. Total assets were approximately $33.7 million and $37.8 million as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Current liabilities exceed current assetsby approximately $5.3 million and $1.5 million as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, was approximately $3.5 million and $4.7 million, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities decreased primarily due to the gross margin of approximately $1.4 million offset by the increase in Selling, General and Administrative expenses. 21 Net cash used by financing activities was approximately $115,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2017, and net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $5,017,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Net cash flows provided by financing activities decreased primarily due to the issuance of common stock in January 2016 in a financing transaction that generated net proceeds of approximately $5 million. As noted above under the heading "Going Concern and Management Plan," through March 31, 2017, Adamis had incurred substantial losses. As noted above and in Note 11 to the financial statements appearing elsewhere herein, in April 2017, we completed an underwritten public offering of shares of common stock at resulting in estimated net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses, of approximately $16.1 million. However, the availability of any required additional funding cannot be assured. If we do not obtain additional equity or debt funding, our cash resources will be depleted and we will be required to reduce or suspend operations. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional funding to permit us to continue operations at the levels that we desire, substantial time may pass before we obtain regulatory marketing approval for any of our product candidates and begin to realize revenues from sales of such products, and during this period Adamis will require additional funds to continue operations and development of our product candidates. No assurance can be given as to the timing or ultimate success of obtaining future funding. As we have previously disclosed in our SEC filings, in connection with our acquisition of USC and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement relating to the USC acquisition, we assumed approximately $5,722,000 principal amount of debt obligations under two loan agreements and related loan documents relating to the building, real property and equipment that certain third parties agreed to transfer to the Company or USC in connection with the Merger, as well as the two loan agreements to which USC is a party, a working capital loan and an equipment loan, and related loan documents evidencing loans previously made to USC, and we agreed to become an additional co-borrower under the USC Loan Documents. The lender in all of the USC Loan Documents was First Federal Bank and/or its successor Bear State Bank, referred to as Lender or the Bank. In November 2016, we entered into amendments of our loan agreements with the Bank. Under the loan agreements, we are required to make current periodic interest and principal payments under the Amended Loan Documents, in an amount of approximately $55,000 per month; the amount of required interest payments is subject to change depending on future changes in interest rates. The balances of the USC Working Capital Line, Building Loan and Equipment Loan are due and payable on September 30, 2017, August 8, 2019 and October 1, 2019, respectively. We also entered into a loan and security agreement with the Lender, referred to as the Adamis Working Capital Line, pursuant to which we may borrow up to an aggregate of $2,000,000 to provide working capital to USC, subject to the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. Interest on amounts borrowed under the Adamis Working Capital Line accrues at a rate equal to the prime interest rate, as defined in the agreement. Interest payments are required to be made quarterly. As amended effective March 31, 2017, the entire outstanding principal balance, and all accrued and unpaid interest and all other sums payable pursuant to our loan agreement with the Bank, are due and payable on March 1, 2018, or sooner upon the occurrence of certain events as provided in the loan agreement and related documents. Our obligations under the Adamis Working Capital Line are secured by certain collateral, including without limitation our interest in amounts that we have loaned to USC; a warrant that we issued to the Lender to purchase up to 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price equal to par value per share, only exercisable by Lender if we are in default under the loan documents and if the Lender delivers a notice to us and we do not cure the default within the applicable cure period; and our Certificate of Deposit (&quot;CD&quot;) with the Lender of approximately $1,000,000. Page; Sequence: 19; Value: 2 22 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's critical accounting policies and estimates previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 have not significantly changed. Refer to Note 1 to the accompanying financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the additional policy adopted during the three months ended March 31, 2017. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent accounting pronouncements are disclosed in Note 1 to the accompanying financial statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At March 31, 2017, Adamis did not have any off balance sheet arrangements.