Item 1. Financial Statements. ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS See accompanying notes 1 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) See accompanying notes 2 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (unaudited) See accompanying notes 3 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH31, 2016 (unaudited) See accompanying notes 4 5 See accompanying notes 6 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION Business and Organization Acadia Realty Trust (the "Trust") and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a fully-integrated equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") focused on the ownership, acquisition, redevelopment and management of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, supply-constrained, densely-populated metropolitan areas in the United States. All of the Company's assets are held by, and all of its operations are conducted through, Acadia Realty Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") and entities in which the Operating Partnership owns an interest. As of March31, 2016 , the Trust controlled approximately 94% of the Operating Partnership as the sole general partner. As the general partner, the Trust is entitled to share, in proportion to its percentage interest, in the cash distributions and profits and losses of the Operating Partnership. The limited partners primarily represent entities or individuals that contributed their interests in certain properties or entities to the Operating Partnership in exchange for common or preferred units of limited partnership interest ("Common OP Units" or "Preferred OP Units") and employees who have been awarded restricted OP units ("LTIP Units") as long-term incentive compensation (Note 13). Limited partners holding Common OP Units are generally entitled to exchange their units on a one-for-one basis for common shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ("Common Shares"). As of March31, 2016 , the Company has ownership interests in 92 properties within its core portfolio, which consist of those properties either wholly owned, or partially owned through joint venture interests, by the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through its opportunity funds (the "Core Portfolio"). The Company also has ownership interests in 59 properties within its opportunity funds, Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund II, LLC ("Fund II"), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund III LLC ("Fund III") and Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund IV LLC ("Fund IV" and together with Funds II and III, the "Funds"). The 151 Core Portfolio and Fund properties consist of commercial properties, which are primarily high-quality urban and/or street retail properties, community shopping centers and mixed-use properties with a retail component. The Company and Fund II also include investments in operating companies through Acadia Mervyn Investors I, LLC ("Mervyns I"), Acadia Mervyn Investors II, LLC ("Mervyns II") and, in certain instances, directly through Fund II, all on a non-recourse basis. These investments comprise and are referred to as the Company's Retailer Controlled Property Initiative ("RCP Venture"). The Operating Partnership is the sole general partner or managing member of the Funds, Mervyns I and Mervyns II and earns fees or priority distributions for asset management, property management, construction, redevelopment, leasing and legal services. Cash from the Funds and RCP Venture is distributed pro-rata to the respective partners and members (including the Operating Partnership) until each receives a certain cumulative return ("Preferred Return"), and the return of all capital contributions. Thereafter, remaining cash flow is distributed 20% to the Operating Partnership ("Promote") and 80% to the partners or members (including the Operating Partnership). Following is a table summarizing the general terms and the Operating Partnership's equity interests in the Funds and Mervyns I and II: 7 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) Notes: (1) Mervyns I was originally formed in conjunction with Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund, LP ("Fund I"). Fund I was liquidated and dissolved as of December 31, 2015. The above table reflects the combined activity of Fund I and Mervyns I. Fund I and Mervyns I have returned all capital and preferred return. The Operating Partnership is entitled to a Promote on all future cash distributions from Mervyns I. (2) During 2013, a distribution of $47.1 million was made to the Fund II investors, including the Operating Partnership. This amount is subject to recontribution to Fund II until December 2016, if needed to fund the on-going development and construction of existing projects. (3) Fund III has returned all capital and preferred return. The Operating Partnership is now entitled to a Promote on all future cash distributions. (4) Represents the total for the Funds, including the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling interests' shares. Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the Company and its investments in entities in which the Company is presumed to have control in accordance with the consolidation guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). Investments in entities for which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence but does not have financial or operating control are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Company's share of the net earnings (or losses) of entities accounted for under the equity method are included in consolidated net income under the caption, Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates. Investments in entities for which the Company does not have the ability to exercise any influence are accounted for under the cost method. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Operating results for the three months ended March31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending December31, 2016 . The information furnished in the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflects all adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements for the interim periods. Such adjustments consisted of normal recurring items. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 19, 2016. Real Estate The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company measures and records impairment losses and reduces the carrying value of properties when indicators of impairment are present and the expected undiscounted cash flows related to those properties are less than their carrying amounts. In cases where the Company does not expect to recover its carrying costs on properties held for use, the Company reduces its carrying cost to fair value, and for properties held-for-sale, the Company reduces its carrying value to the fair value less costs to dispose. During the quarter ended June 30, 2015, as a result of the loss of a key anchor tenant, one of the properties in the Company's Brandywine Portfolio, in which an unaffiliated third party has a 77.78% noncontrolling interest, did not generate sufficient cash flow to meet the full debt service requirements leading to a default on the mortgage loan. Management performed an analysis and determined that the carrying amount of this property was not recoverable. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $5.0 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2015. The Operating Partnership's share of this charge, net of the noncontrolling interest, was $1.1 million . The property is collateral for $26.3 million of non-recourse mortgage debt which matures July 1, 2016. Management does not believe that the carrying values of any of its other properties are impaired as of March31, 2016 . 8 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) Recent Accounting Pronouncements During February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, "Leases." ASU 2016-02 requires that a lessee should recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from leases. ASU 2016-02 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted and shall be applied retrospectively. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. On January 1, 2016, the Company adopted ASU No. 2015-02, "Consolidation - Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis," which modified the evaluation of whether limited partnerships and similar legal entities are variable interest entities ("VIE's"), particularly those with fee arrangements and related party relationships. There were no entities qualifying under the scope of the revised guidance that were consolidated as a result of the adoption. Accordingly, the adoption of ASU 2015-02 had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 2.EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Basic earnings per Common Share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Common Shareholders by the weighted average Common Shares outstanding. At March31, 2016 , the Company has unvested LTIP Units (Note 13) which provide for non-forfeitable rights to dividend equivalent payments. Accordingly, these unvested LTIP Units are considered participating securities and are included in the computation of basic earnings per Common Share pursuant to the two-class method. Diluted earnings per Common Share reflects the potential dilution of the conversion of obligations and the assumed exercises of securities including the effects of restricted share unit ("Restricted Share Units") and share option awards issued under the Company's Share Incentive Plans (Note 13). The effect of the assumed conversion of 188 Series A Preferred OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units into an aggregate 428,121 and 25,067 Common Shares, for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March31, 2015, respectively, would be dilutive and therefore are included in the computation of diluted earnings per share. The effect of the conversion of Common OP Units is not reflected in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share, as they are exchangeable for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis. The income allocable to such units is allocated on this same basis and reflected as noncontrolling interests in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As such, the assumed conversion of these units would have no net impact on the determination of diluted earnings per share. The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the periods indicated: 9 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 3. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company issued 1.1 million Common Shares under its $200.0 million at-the-market ("ATM") equity program, generating gross proceeds of $35.7 million and net proceeds of $35.2 million . As of March 31, 2016, there is $91.6 million remaining under this program. The net proceeds from the Company's ATM equity programs have been, and are anticipated to be, used by the Company primarily to fund Core Portfolio acquisitions, its capital contributions to the Funds and for general corporate purposes. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units to acquire real estate. The Series C Preferred OP Units have a value of $100.00 per unit and are entitled to a preferred quarterly distribution of $0.9375 per unit. Noncontrolling interests represent the portion of equity in entities consolidated in the accompanying consolidated financial statements that the Company does not own. Such noncontrolling interests are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets within equity, separately from shareholders' equity, and include third party interests in the Company's Funds and other entities. It also includes interests in the Operating Partnership which represent (i) the limited partners' 3,357,760 and 2,931,198 Common OP Units at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively; (ii) 188 Series A Preferred OP Units at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively; (iii) 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units at March31, 2016 and (iv) 1,069,813 and 929,169 LTIP Units at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE Acquisitions During 2016, the Company acquired the following properties through its Core Portfolio and Fund IV: 10 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE(continued) Acquisitions (continued) Notes: (1) The Company acquired a 49% membership interest in this property for $39.8 million . The Company's pro-rata share of debt assumed was $10.5 million . In connection with this acquisition, the Company issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Preferred OP Units. (2) The purchase price represents the total discounted payments pursuant to a 49 -year master lease entered into by the Company, which is accounted for as a capital lease. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, lease payments totaling $7.2 million were made under this lease. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company expensed $0.2 million of acquisition costs in each of the Core Portfolio and Fund IV. Purchase Price Allocations With the exception of 1964 Union Street, which was an asset acquisition, and 991 Madison Avenue, a master lease position, the above acquisitions have been accounted for as business combinations. The purchase prices were allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities based on their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The preliminary measurements of fair value reflected below are subject to change. The Company expects to finalize the valuations and complete the purchase price allocations within one year from the dates of acquisition. The following table summarizes the Company's preliminary estimated allocations of the purchase prices of assets acquired and liabilities assumed during 2016 which have yet to be finalized: 11 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE(continued) Acquisitions (continued) During 2015, the Company acquired properties and recorded the preliminary allocations of the purchase prices to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on provisional measurements of fair value. During 2016, the Company finalized the allocations of the purchase prices and made certain measurement period adjustments. The following table summarizes the preliminary allocations of the purchase prices of these properties as recorded as of December 31, 2015, and the finalized allocations as adjusted as of March 31, 2016: Dispositions During 2016, Fund III sold a 65% interest in Cortlandt Town Center for $107,250 , resulting in a gain on sale of $65,393 . Properties Held For Sale At March 31, 2016, the Company had one property classified as held-for-sale. At December 31, 2015, the Company had no properties classified as held-for-sale. 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES Core Portfolio The Company owns a 49% interest in a 311,000 square foot shopping center located in White Plains, New York ("Crossroads"), a 50% interest in an approximately 28,000 square foot retail portfolio located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. (the "Georgetown Portfolio") and an 88.43% tenancy-in-common interest in an 87,000 square foot retail property located in Chicago, Illinois ("840 N. Michigan"). The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have any rights with respect to financial or operating control. During January 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of a 49% interest in an approximately 123,000 square foot retail property located in Manhattan, New York ("Gotham Plaza"), for a purchase price of $39.8 million . Consideration for this purchase consisted of the assumption of 49% of the existing debt of $21.4 million and the issuance of both Common and Preferred OP Units. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have any rights with respect to financial or operating control. 12 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES (continued) Funds RCP Venture The Funds, together with two unaffiliated partners formed an investment group, the RCP Venture, for the purpose of making investments in surplus or underutilized properties owned by retailers and, in some instances, the retailers' operating company. The RCP Venture is neither a single entity nor a specific investment and the Company has no control or rights with respect to the formation and operation of these investments. The Company has made these investments through its subsidiaries, Mervyns I, Mervyns II and Fund II, (together the "Acadia Investors"), all on a non-recourse basis. Through March31, 2016 , the Acadia Investors have made investments in Mervyns Department Stores ("Mervyns") and Albertsons including additional investments in locations that are separate from these original investments ("Add-On Investments"). Additionally, they have invested in Shopko, Marsh and Rex Stores Corporation (collectively "Other RCP Investments"). The Company accounts for its investments in Mervyns and Albertsons on the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have any rights with respect to financial or operating control. The Company accounts for its investments in its Add-On Investments and Other RCP Investments on the cost method as it does not have any influence over such entities' operating and financial policies nor any rights with respect to the control and operation of these entities. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , the Company received distributions from its RCP Venture of $0.1 million , of which the Operating Partnership's aggregate share was $0.02 million . The following table summarizes activity related to the RCP Venture investments from inception through March31, 2016 : Other Fund Investments The unaffiliated partners in Fund III's investments in Arundel Plaza as well as Fund IV's investments in 1701 Belmont Avenue, 2819 Kennedy Boulevard, Promenade at Manassas, Eden Square and the Broughton Street Portfolio, maintain control over these entities. The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have any rights with respect to financial or operating control. Self-Storage Management, a Fund III investment, was determined to be a variable interest entity. Management has evaluated the applicability of ASC Topic 810 to this joint venture and determined that the Company is not the primary beneficiary and, therefore, consolidation of this venture is not required. The Company accounts for this investment using the equity method of accounting. During January 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of a 65% interest in Cortlandt Town Center for a sales price of $107.3 million . The Company now accounts for this investment under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have any rights with respect to financial or operating control. 13 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES (continued) Summary of Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates The following Aggregate and Condensed Balance Sheets and Statements of Income summarize the financial information of the Company's investments in unconsolidated affiliates: 14 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 6.STRUCTURED FINANCING PORTFOLIO As of March31, 2016 , the Company's structured financing portfolio, consisted of notes receivable and preferred equity investments, aggregating $154.7 million . These investments were collateralized either by underlying properties, the borrowers' ownership interests in the entities that own properties and/or by the borrowers' personal guarantee subordinate, as applicable, to senior liens, as follows: Notes: (1) Includes origination and exit fees (2) During January 2016, Fund IV made a $13.3 million loan, which is collateralized by a property, bears interest at 7.0% and matures on July13, 2016 . (3) During February 2016, the Company received full principal repayment of this $7.5 million note. (4) During February 2016, the Company received a payment of $13.4 million , which included $13.0 million of full principal repayment and $0.4 million of prepayment penalty representing interest through June 2016 on this preferred equity investment that was originally scheduled to mature on September1, 2017 . (5) The principal balance for this loan, which requires no current payments of interest, is increased by the interest accrued. (6) During January 2016, Fund IV made a preferred equity investment in a joint venture for $14.0 million . The investment has a mandatory redemption date of January13, 2021 and earns a preferred return rate of 15.3% . (7) Loan was non-performing as of March31, 2016 . Based on the value of the underlying collateral, no reserve has been established against this loan. (8) During 2016, the Company advanced an additional $0.4 million on a loan collateralized by a property. (9) Consists of four loans as of March31, 2016 . 15 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 6. STRUCTURED FINANCING PORTFOLIO (continued) The Company monitors the credit quality of its notes receivable on an ongoing basis and considers indicators of credit quality such as loan payment activity, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, the seniority of the Company's loan in relation to other debt secured by the collateral and the prospects of the borrower. As of March31, 2016 , the Company held one non-performing note. 7. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As of March31, 2016 , the Company's derivative financial instruments consisted of 16 interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional value of $305.7 million , which effectively fix the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") at rates ranging from 1.3% to 3.8% and mature between July 2018 and March 2025 . The Company also has one derivative financial instrument with a notional value of $29.5 million which caps LIBOR at 4.0% and matures April 2018 . The fair value of these derivative instruments that represent liabilities are included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $12.4 million and $5.9 million at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The fair value of these derivative instruments representing assets are included in prepaid expenses and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $0.8 million at December31, 2015 . The notional value does not represent exposure to credit, interest rate, or market risks. These derivative instruments have been designated as cash flow hedges and hedge the future cash outflows of variable-rate interest payments on mortgage and other debt. Such instruments are reported at their fair values as stated above. As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , unrealized losses totaling $11.5 million and $4.5 million , respectively, were reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , no derivatives were designated as fair value hedges, hedges of net investments in foreign operations or considered to be ineffective. Additionally, the Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 8. MORTGAGE AND OTHER NOTES PAYABLE The Company completed the following transactions related to mortgage notes payable during the three months ended March31, 2016 : 16 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 9.UNSECURED NOTES PAYABLE The Company completed the following transactions related to its unsecured credit facilities during the three months ended March31, 2016 : The Company repaid the remaining $20.8 million of its revolving unsecured credit facility. The Company borrowed $7.5 million on its Fund II credit facility. The outstanding balance under this facility is $20.0 million as of March31, 2016 . The Company repaid $9.2 million on its Fund IV subscription line. The outstanding balance under this facility is $82.7 million as of March31, 2016 . The Company borrowed $5.6 million on its Fund IV term loan. The outstanding balance under this facility is $40.1 million as of March31, 2016 . During January 2016, the Company closed on a $50.0 million unsecured term loan. The facility bears interest at LIBOR+1.30% and matures January 4, 2021 . 10.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The FASB's fair value measurements and disclosure guidance requires the valuation of certain of the Company's financial assets and liabilities, based on a three-level fair value hierarchy. Market value assumptions obtained from sources independent of the Company are observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy, and the Company's own assumptions about market value assumptions are unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy. The following table presents the Company's fair value hierarchy for those assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March31, 2016 : In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the Company also has assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. As these assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, they are not included in the table above. Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations as well as any assets that have been impaired (Note 4). Financial Instruments Certain of the Company's assets and liabilities meet the definition of financial instruments. Except as disclosed below, the carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate their fair values. The Company has determined the estimated fair values of the following financial instruments within Level 2 of the hierarchy by discounting future cash flows utilizing a discount rate equivalent to the rate at which similar financial instruments would be originated at the reporting date: 17 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 11.RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company earned property management fees, construction, legal and leasing fees from its investments in unconsolidated affiliates totaling $0.1 million for each of the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 12.SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has three reportable segments: Core Portfolio, Funds and Structured Financing Portfolio. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. The Company evaluates property performance primarily based on net operating income before depreciation, amortization and certain nonrecurring items. Investments in the Core Portfolio are typically held long-term. Given the contemplated finite life of the Funds, these investments are typically held for shorter terms. Fees earned by the Company as the general partner/managing member of the Funds are eliminated in the Company's consolidated financial statements. The Structured Financing Portfolio represents the Company's investments in notes receivable and preferred equity. The following tables set forth certain segment information for the Company, as of and for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, and does not include unconsolidated affiliates: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 18 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 12.SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 13.LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company issued 289,925 LTIP Units and 11,094 Restricted Share Units to employees of the Company pursuant to its Amended and Restated 2006 Share Incentive Plan (the "Share Incentive Plan"). These awards were measured at their fair value on the grant date, which was established as the market price of the Company's Common Shares as of the close of trading on the day preceding the grant date. The total value of the above Restricted Share Units and LTIP Units as of the grant date was $10.4 million , of which $1.9 million was recognized as compensation expense in 2015, and $8.5 million will be recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period. Compensation expense of $0.5 million has been recognized in the accompanying consolidated statements of income related to these awards for the three months ended March31, 2016 . Total long-term incentive compensation expense, including the expense related to the above-mentioned plans, was $1.9 million and $1.8 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, members of the Board of Trustees have been issued units under the Share Incentive Plan. Total trustee fee expense related to these issuances was $0.2 million for each of the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In 2009, the Company adopted the Long Term Investment Alignment Program (the "Program") pursuant to which the Company may grant awards to employees, entitling them to receive up to 25% of any potential future payments of Promote to the Operating Partnership from Funds III and IV. The Company has awarded units to employees representing 25.0% of the potential Promote payments from Fund III to the Operating Partnership and 9.3% of the potential Promote payments from Fund IV to the Operating Partnership. Payments to senior executives under the Program require further Board approval at the time any potential payments are due pursuant to these grants. Compensation relating to these awards will be recognized in each reporting period in which Board approval is granted. 19 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 13.LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION (continued) As payments to other employees are not subject to further Board approval, compensation relating to these awards will be recorded based on the change in the estimated fair value at each reporting period in accordance with ASC Topic 718, "Compensation - Stock Compensation." During the three months ended March 31, 2016, compensation expense of $1.5 million was recognized related to the Program in connection with Fund III. The awards in connection with Fund IV were determined to have no value as of March 31, 2016. 14. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS During April 2016, the Company entered into a forward sale and an underwritten public offering of 3.6 million Common Shares, which, if settled in Common Shares, will result in gross proceeds of approximately $125.0 million , before any underwriting discount and offering expenses. The forward sale will settle on one or more dates occurring no later than approximately 12 months after the date of the offering. During April 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of Heritage Shops in Chicago, Illinois for a sales price of $46.5 million . During April 2016, the Company borrowed $130.0 million under its unsecured credit facility, and repaid $140.0 million of secured debt that was scheduled to mature July 1, 2016. Additionally, the Company received repayment on a note receivable with accrued interest to an affiliated third party of $42.7 million that was scheduled to mature November 9, 2020 and issued a new note for $153.4 million , which is secured by the affiliates interest in the related property, bears interest at 8.1% and matures April 30, 2019. 20 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion is based on our consolidated financial statements as of March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and for each of the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto ("Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors are set forth under the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (our "2015 Form 10-K") and include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions, which will, among other things, affect demand for rental space, the availability and creditworthiness of prospective tenants, lease rents and the availability of financing; adverse changes in our real estate markets, including, among other things, competition with other companies; risks of real estate development, acquisition and investment; risks related to our use of leverage; demands placed on our resources due to the growth of our business; risks related to operating through a partnership structure; our limited control over joint venture investments; the risk of loss of key members of management; uninsured losses; REIT distribution requirements and ownership limitations; concentration of ownership by certain institutional investors; governmental actions and initiatives; and environmental/safety requirements. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-Q. OVERVIEW Our primary business objective is to acquire and manage commercial retail properties that will provide cash for distributions to shareholders while also creating the potential for capital appreciation to enhance investor returns. We focus on the following fundamentals to achieve this objective: Own and operate a Core Portfolio of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas. Our goal is to create value through accretive redevelopment and re-tenanting activities within our existing portfolio and grow this platform through the acquisition of high-quality assets that have the long-term potential to outperform the asset class. Generate additional growth through our Funds in which we co-invest with high-quality institutional investors. Our Fund strategy focuses on opportunistic yet disciplined acquisition with high inherent opportunity for the creation of additional value, execution on this opportunity and the realization of value through the sale of these assets. In connection with this strategy, we focus on: value-add investments in street retail properties, located in established and "next generation" submarkets, with re-tenanting or repositioning opportunities, opportunistic acquisitions of well-located real estate anchored by distressed retailers, and other opportunistic acquisitions, which vary based on market conditions and may include high-yield acquisitions and purchases of distressed debt. Some of these investments have also included, and may in the future include, joint ventures with private equity investors for the purpose of making investments in operating retailers with significant embedded value in their real estate assets. Maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet through conservative financial practices while ensuring access to sufficient capital to fund future growth. As of March31, 2016 , we operated 151 properties, which we own or have an ownership interest in, within our Core Portfolio and Funds. These properties primarily consist of high-quality retail properties located in key street and urban retail corridors as well as suburban locations within high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas in the United States. 21 Core Portfolio Our Core Portfolio consists of those properties we either entirely own, or partially own in joint ventures, through the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through our Funds. There are 92 properties in our Core Portfolio totaling 4.7 million square feet. As of March31, 2016 , the Core Portfolio physical occupancy was 96.3% and leased occupancy, which includes executed leases for which rent has not yet commenced, was 96.6%. Funds Fund II has four properties, two of which (representing 0.3 million square feet) are operating, one of which is under construction, and one of which is in the design phase. Fund III has 10 properties, seven of which (representing 1.1 million square feet) are operating and three of which are in various stages of redevelopment. Fund IV has investments in 20 individual properties, 16 of which (representing 1.0 million square feet) are operating and 4 of which are in various stages of development. In addition, Fund IV is invested in a portfolio of 25 properties (the Broughton Street Portfolio), 14 of which are operating and 11 of which are in various stages of development. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe there have been no material changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our 2015 Form 10-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS A discussion of the significant variances and primary factors contributing thereto within our results of operations are addressed below. Where there were no significant variances from period to period, the information in the following tables is presented without further discussion: Comparison of the three months ended March31, 2016 (" 2016 ") to the three months ended March31, 2015 (" 2015 ") Rental income in the Core Portfolio increased $1.9 million primarily as a resul t of additional rents from property acquisitions in 2015 and 2016 ("Core Acquisitions") . Rental income in the Funds decreased $1.5 million due to decreases of $2.4 million relating to property dispositions in 2015 and 2016 ("Fund Dispositions"). These decreases were partially offset by property acquisitions in 2015 and 2016 ("Fund Acquisitions"). The $1.2 million increase in interest income in the Structured Financing Portfolio was primarily the result of new loans originated during 2015 and 2016. 22 Expense reimbursements in the Funds decreased $2.0 million primarily due to Fund Dispositions and a decrease in property operating expenses during 2016. Property operating expenses in the Core Portfolio decreased $1.2 million primarily as a result of lower seasonal costs during 2016. Property operating expenses in the Funds decreased $1.0 million primarily as a result of lower seasonal costs during 2016 and Fund Dispositions. Other operating expenses in the Funds decreased $1.5 million as a result of lower acquisition costs during 2016. General and administrative in the Core Portfolio increased $2.3 million due to increased compensation expense, which included $1.5 million related to the Program (Note 13). The $3.6 million increase in depreciation and amortization in the Core Portfolio was attributable to Core Acquisitions. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds decreased $4.8 million primarily as a result of additional distributions in excess of basis from the RCP Venture in 2015. The gain on disposition of properties in the Funds during 2016 represents our gain on sale from Cortlandt Town Center. Gain on disposition of properties in the Funds in 2015 represents our gain on sale from Lincoln Park Center. Interest and other finance expense in the Funds decreased $1.1 million primarily due to a $1.5 million increase in capitalized interest related to our City Point redevelopment project during 2016, offset by a $0.5 million increase related to higher average interest rates during 2016. The variance in the income tax benefit (provision) in the Funds resulted from a 2015 corporate federal tax incurred by a Fund IV investor. 23 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Funds represents their share of all Fund variances discussed above. CORE PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE The following discussion of net property operating income ("NOI") and rent spreads on new and renewal leases includes the activity from both our consolidated and our pro-rata share of unconsolidated properties within our Core Portfolio. Our Funds invest primarily in properties that frequently require significant leasing and redevelopment. Given that the Funds are finite-life investment vehicles, these properties are sold following stabilization. For these reasons, we believe NOI and rent spreads are not meaningful measures for our Fund investments. NOI represents property revenues, excluding above and below market rent as well as straight-line rent, less property expenses. We consider NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases for our Core Portfolio to be appropriate supplemental disclosures of portfolio operating performance due to their widespread acceptance and use within the REIT investor and analyst communities. NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases are presented to assist investors in analyzing our property performance, however, our method of calculating these may be different from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. Net Property Operating Income NOI is determined as follows: Note: (1) Does not include the Operating Partnership's share of NOI from unconsolidated joint ventures within the Funds Same-property NOI includes properties in our Core Portfolio that we owned for both the current and prior periods presented, but excludes those properties which we acquired, sold or expected to sell, and redeveloped during these periods. We define a redevelopment property as an asset that is being repositioned in its market or undergoing significant renovation. Redevelopment activities involve taking a substantial portion of leasable space temporarily out of service and typically include structural work, demising of existing space and/or facade renovation. The following table summarizes same-property NOI for our Core Portfolio for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: 24 The increase in Same-Property NOI in the Core Portfolio for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were primarily attributable to contractual rent increases and the realization of rent increases from below-market leases. The following table summarizes rent spreads on both a cash basis and straight-line basis for new and renewal leases based on leases executed within our Core Portfolio during the three months ended March 31, 2016. Cash basis represents a comparison of rent most recently paid on the previous lease as compared to the initial rent paid on the new lease. Straight-line basis represents a comparison of rents as adjusted for contractual escalations, abated rent and lease incentives for the same comparable leases. Note: (1) The average cost per square foot includes tenant improvement costs, leasing commissions and tenant allowances. FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS Consistent with the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition, we define funds from operations ("FFO") as net income attributable to common shareholders (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciated property, plus depreciation and amortization, impairment of depreciable assets and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. 25 We consider FFO to be an appropriate supplemental disclosure of operating performance for an equity REIT due to its widespread acceptance and use within the REIT and analyst communities. FFO is presented to assist investors in analyzing our performance. It is helpful as it excludes various items included in net income that are not indicative of operating performance, such as gains (losses) from sales of depreciated property, depreciation and amortization, and impairment of depreciable real estate. Although we calculate FFO consistent with the NAREIT definition, other REITs may calculate it differently and, accordingly, our calculation may not be comparable to such other REITs. FFO does not represent cash generated from operations as defined by GAAP and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash needs, including distributions. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income for the purpose of evaluating our performance or to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. The reconciliation of net income to FFO for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 is as follows: USES OF LIQUIDITY Our principal uses of liquidity are (i) distributions to our shareholders and OP unit holders, (ii) investments which include the property acquisitions and redevelopment/re-tenanting activities within our Core Portfolio and the funding of our capital committed to the Funds, (iii) distributions to our Fund investors and (iv) debt service and loan repayments. Distributions In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must currently distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders. For the three months ended March31, 2016 , we paid dividends and distributions on our Common Shares, Common OP Units and LTIP Units totaling $37.6 million. This amount included an $18.8 million special dividend which related to the Operating Partnership's share of cash proceeds from property dispositions during 2015. The balance of the distribution was funded from the Operating Partnership's share of operating cash flow. Distributions of $47.0 million were made to noncontrolling interests in Fund III during the three months ended March31, 2016 . This resulted from proceeds following the disposition of Cortlandt Town Center as discussed in Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments Core Portfolio For the three months ended March31, 2016 , we acquired two properties for an aggregate purchase price of $116.3 million. This was funded primarily through the issuance of OP Units and the assumption of our pro-rata share of debt. See Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. 26 We currently have an acquisition pipeline of $156.3 million under contract, including $59.7 million of mortgage indebtedness with various lenders that we expect to assume in connection with this pipeline. As this acquisition pipeline is subject to customary closing conditions, no assurance can be given that closing will be successfully completed. Structured Financing Portfolio As of March31, 2016 , our structured financing portfolio aggregated $154.7 million with related accrued interest of $15.9 million. The notes were collateralized by the underlying properties, the borrower's ownership interest in the entities that own the properties and/or by the borrower's personal guarantee. Effective interest rates on our notes receivable ranged from 2.5% to 18.0% with maturities from April 2016 through January 2021. During 2016, we have made investments aggregating $27.8 million in our structured financing portfolio. See Note 6 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. Funds During 2016, Fund IV has acquired two properties for an aggregate purchase price of $13.8 million, of which the Operating Partnership's share was $3.0 million. See Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. As part of our Fund investment strategy, we acquire real estate assets that require significant redevelopment. As of March31, 2016 , we had 10 redevelopment projects, four of which are under construction and six of which are in various stages of development as follows: 27 Notes: (1) Anticipated additional costs are estimated ranges for completing the projects and include costs for tenant improvements and leasing commissions. The Operating Partnership's share of these costs are estimated to range from $33.0 million to $48.9 million. (2) Phases I and II have an estimated completion date of 2016. Phase III has an estimated completion date of 2020. (3) Net of actual and anticipated contributions from retail tenants and proceeds from residential tower sales. In addition, costs to date and anticipated additional costs excludes Tower I. Costs to date are reduced by $5.3 million relating to the New Markets Tax Credits received. Debt Service and Loan Repayments For the three months ended March31, 2016 the Company repaid six loans with an aggregate principal balance of $98.0 million. See Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these repayments. In addition, the Company made scheduled amortization payments totaling $1.5 million during the three months ended March31, 2016 . Share Repurchase We have an existing share repurchase program that authorizes management, at its discretion, to repurchase up to $20.0 million of our outstanding Common Shares. The program may be discontinued or extended at any time and there is no assurance that we will purchase the full amount authorized. Under this program we have repurchased 2.1 million Common Shares, none of which were repurchased after December 2001. As of March31, 2016 , management has remaining authority to repurchase up to approximately $7.5 million of our outstanding Common Shares under this program. SOURCES OF LIQUIDITY Our principal sources of liquidity include (i) the issuance of both Common Shares and OP Units, (ii) the issuance of both secured and unsecured debt, (iii) unfunded capital commitments from noncontrolling interests within our Funds III and IV of $47.1 million and $231.6 million, respectively, (iv) future sales of existing properties, (v) cash on hand of $84.9 million as of March31, 2016 and (vi) future cash flows from operating activities. Issuance of Equity During May 2014, we filed a universal, unlimited shelf registration on Form S-3. The registration is effective through May 2017 and allows the Company to issue Common Shares, Preferred Shares, debt securities and other securities with no restrictions on the amount. During 2016, we have issued 1.1 million Common Shares under our at-the-market ("ATM") equity program for net proceeds of $35.2 million. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our ATM equity program. During 2016, we issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units to acquire real estate (Note 3). During April 2016, we entered into a forward sale and an underwritten public offering of 3.6 million Common Shares, which will result in gross proceeds of approximately $125.0 million, before any underwriting discount and offering expenses. The forward sale will settle on one or more dates occurring no later than approximately 12 months after the date of the offering. Asset Sales During January 2016, we completed the disposition of a 65% interest in Fund III's Cortlandt Town Center for $107.3 million. The Operating Partnership's share of net proceeds was $19.9 million. During April 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of Heritage Shops in Chicago, Illinois for a sales price of $46.5 million. The Operating Partnership's share of net proceeds, net of the repayment of debt was $8.7 million. See Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our asset dispositions. 28 Structured Financing Portfolio Repayments During 2016, we have received repayments in our structured financing portfolio aggregating $20.5 million . See Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for further information of our notes receivable and preferred equity investments, and for payments received during the three months ended March31, 2016 . Debt Financings During the three months ended March31, 2016 , we received loan proceeds of $136.6 million , and made repayments of $201.0 million . See Notes 8 and 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the transactions related to mortgage loans, bond financing and credit facilities completed during the three months ended March31, 2016 . As of March31, 2016 , mortgages, other notes payable and unsecured notes payable aggregated $1,306.0 million , excluding unamortized premium and unamortized loan costs, collateralized by 34 properties and related tenant leases. Interest rates on our outstanding mortgage indebtedness and other notes payable ranged from 1.00% to 6.65% with maturities that ranged from May 2016 to October 2025 . Taking into consideration $305.7 million of notional principal under variable to fixed-rate swap agreements currently in effect, $844.1 million of the mortgages and other notes payable, or 64.6% , was fixed at a 5.16% weighted average interest rate and $461.9 million , or 35.4% was floating at a 2.29% weighted average interest rate as of March31, 2016 . There is $449.0 million of debt maturing in 2016 at a weighted average interest rate of 3.86% . In addition, there is $3.9 million of scheduled principal amortization due in 2016. As it relates to the maturing debt in 2016, we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repay such indebtedness, and, therefore, we expect to refinance at least a portion of this indebtedness or select other alternatives based on market conditions as these loans mature. The following table sets forth certain information pertaining to our secured and unsecured credit facilities: Notes: (1) This is a revolving credit facility. (2) The Fund IV revolving subscription line of credit is secured by unfunded investor capital commitments. The following table summarizes our mortgage and other indebtedness as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 : 29 30 Notes: (1) Represents the amount of our variable-rate debt that has been fixed through certain cash flow hedge transactions. See Note 7 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these transactions. (2) Comprised of four loans, one of which was in default as of March 31, 2016. 31 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS At March31, 2016 , maturities on our mortgages and other notes payable ranged from May 2016 to October 2025 . In addition, we have non-cancelable ground leases, with terms expiring between 2020 and 2078, at five of our properties. We also lease space for our corporate headquarters for a term expiring in 2027. The following table summarizes our debt maturities, obligations under non-cancelable operating and capital leases and construction contracts as of March31, 2016 : (1) The ground lease expiring during 2078 has an option to purchase the underlying land during 2031. If we do not exercise the option, the rents that will be due are based on future values and as such are not determinable at this time. Accordingly, the above table does not include rents for this lease beyond 2031. HISTORICAL CASH FLOW The following table compares the historical cash flows for the three months ended March31, 2016 (" 2016 ") with the cash flow for the three months ended March31, 2015 (" 2015 "): A discussion of the significant changes in cash flows for 2016 compared to 2015 is as follows: Operating Activities Our operating activities used $8.6 million of additional cash during 2016, primarily from the following: An upfront payment of a capital lease obligation during 2016 Investing Activities During 2016, we used $307.9 million less cash for investing activities, primarily due to the following: $241.0 million less cash was used for the acquisition of real estate $41.3 million increase in cash received from the disposition of properties $32.3 million increase in cash collected from the return of capital from unconsolidated affiliates These items were partially offset by: $6.7 million of additional cash was issued for notes receivable, net of repayments 32 Financing Activities Our financing activities used $196.7 million more cash during 2016, primarily from the following: Cash provided from net borrowings decreased $228.9 million $29.8 million of additional cash distributed to noncontrolling interests These items were partially offset by: $46.3 million of additional cash contributed from noncontrolling interests $13.4 million more cash received from the issuance of Common Shares OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have investments in the following joint ventures for the purpose of investing in operating properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. As such, our financial statements reflect our investment in and our share of income and loss from, but not the individual assets and liabilities of, these joint ventures. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our unconsolidated investments. Our pro-rata share of debt related to these unconsolidated investments is as follows: Note: In addition, we have arranged for the provision of two separate letters of credit in connection with certain leases and investments. As of March31, 2016 , there was no outstanding balance under the letters of credit. If the letters of credit were fully drawn, the maximum amount of our exposure would be $17.5 million . In addition to our derivative financial instruments, two of our unconsolidated affiliates are parties tooneinterest rate LIBOR swap and one interest rate LIBOR cap with notional values of $21.3 million and $93.0 million , respectively. The interest rate LIBOR swap effectively fixes the interest rate at 3.49% and expires in June 2023. The interest rate LIBOR cap is at 3.00% and expires in February 2029. Our pro-rata share of the fair value of such affiliates' derivative liabilities, net totaled $0.4 million as of March31, 2016 . 33 INFLATION Our long-term leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation on our net income. Such provisions include clauses enabling us to receive percentage rents based on tenants' gross sales, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or, in certain cases, escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses are often related to increases in the consumer price index or similar inflation indexes. In addition, many of our leases are for terms of less than ten years, which permits us to seek to increase rents upon re-rental at market rates if current rents are below the then existing market rates. Most of our leases require the tenants to pay their share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, thereby reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation.Item 1. Financial Statements. ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS See accompanying notes 1 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) See accompanying notes 2 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (unaudited) See accompanying notes 3 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE30, 2016 (unaudited) See accompanying notes 4 5 See accompanying notes 6 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION Business and Organization Acadia Realty Trust (the "Trust") and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a fully-integrated equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") focused on the ownership, acquisition, redevelopment and management of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, supply-constrained, densely-populated metropolitan areas in the United States. All of the Company's assets are held by, and all of its operations are conducted through, Acadia Realty Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") and entities in which the Operating Partnership owns an interest. As of June30, 2016 , the Trust controlled approximately 94% of the Operating Partnership as the sole general partner. As the general partner, the Trust is entitled to share, in proportion to its percentage interest, in the cash distributions and profits and losses of the Operating Partnership. The limited partners primarily represent entities or individuals that contributed their interests in certain properties or entities to the Operating Partnership in exchange for common or preferred units of limited partnership interest ("Common OP Units" or "Preferred OP Units") and employees who have been awarded restricted OP units ("LTIP Units") as long-term incentive compensation (Note 13). Limited partners holding Common OP Units are generally entitled to exchange their units on a one-for-one basis for common shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ("Common Shares"). As of June30, 2016 , the Company has ownership interests in 110 properties within its core portfolio, which consist of those properties either wholly owned, or partially owned through joint venture interests, by the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through its opportunity funds (the "Core Portfolio"). The Company also has ownership interests in 58 properties within its opportunity funds, Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund II, LLC ("Fund II"), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund III LLC ("Fund III") and Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund IV LLC ("Fund IV" and together with Funds II and III, the "Funds"). The 168 Core Portfolio and Fund properties consist of commercial properties, which are primarily high-quality urban and/or street retail properties, community shopping centers and mixed-use properties with a retail component. The Company and Fund II also include investments in operating companies through Acadia Mervyn Investors I, LLC ("Mervyns I"), Acadia Mervyn Investors II, LLC ("Mervyns II") and, in certain instances, directly through Fund II, all on a non-recourse basis. These investments comprise and are referred to as the Company's Retailer Controlled Property Initiative ("RCP Venture"). The Operating Partnership is the sole managing member of the Funds, Mervyns I and Mervyns II and earns fees or priority distributions for asset management, property management, construction, redevelopment, leasing and legal services. Cash from the Funds and RCP Venture is distributed pro-rata to the respective partners and members (including the Operating Partnership) until each receives a certain cumulative return ("Preferred Return"), and the return of all capital contributions. Thereafter, remaining cash flow is distributed 20% to the Operating Partnership ("Promote") and 80% to the partners or members (including the Operating Partnership). Following is a table summarizing the general terms and the Operating Partnership's equity interests in the Funds and Mervyns I and II: Notes: (1) Mervyns I was originally formed in conjunction with Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund, LP ("Fund I"). Fund I was liquidated and dissolved as of December 31, 2015. The above table reflects the combined activity of Fund I and Mervyns I. Fund I and Mervyns I have returned all capital and preferred return. The Operating Partnership is entitled to a Promote on all future cash distributions from Mervyns I. 7 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) (2) During 2013, a distribution of $47.1 million was made to the Fund II investors, including the Operating Partnership. This amount is subject to recontribution to Fund II until December 2016, if needed to fund the on-going development and construction of existing projects. (3) Fund III has returned all capital and preferred return. The Operating Partnership is now entitled to a Promote on all future cash distributions. (4) Represents the total for the Funds, including the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling interests' shares. Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the Company and its investments in entities in which the Company is presumed to have control in accordance with the consolidation guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). Investments in entities for which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence but does not have financial or operating control are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Company's share of the net earnings (or losses) of entities accounted for under the equity method are included in consolidated net income under the caption, Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates. Investments in entities for which the Company does not have the ability to exercise any influence are accounted for under the cost method. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Operating results for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending December31, 2016 . The information furnished in the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflects all adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements for the interim periods. Such adjustments consisted of normal recurring items. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 19, 2016. During the three months ended June 30, 2016, management determined that certain transactions involving the issuance of Common Shares of the Trust and Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, and LTIP Units of the Operating Partnership, should have resulted in an adjustment to the Operating Partnership's non-controlling interest ("OPU NCI") and the Trust's Additional Paid-in-Capital ("APIC") to reflect the difference between the fair value of the consideration received or paid and the book value of the Common Shares, Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, and LTIP Units involving these changes in ownership (the "Rebalancing"). During the three months ended June 30, 2016, the Trust increased its APIC with an offsetting reduction to the OPU NCI of approximately $38.8 million , of which approximately $31.8 million of this Rebalancing related to prior years. Management concluded that the Rebalancing adjustments were not meaningful to the Company's financial position for any of the prior years, and the quarterly periods in 2016, and as such, this cumulative change was recorded in the consolidated balance sheet and statement of shareholder's equity in the second quarter of 2016 as an out-of-period adjustment. The misclassification had no impact on the previously-reported consolidated assets, liabilities or total equity or on the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, or cash flows. Real Estate The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company measures and records impairment losses and reduces the carrying value of properties when indicators of impairment are present and the expected undiscounted cash flows related to those properties are less than their carrying amounts. In cases where the Company does not expect to recover its carrying costs on properties held for use, the Company reduces its carrying cost to fair value, and for properties held-for-sale, the Company reduces its carrying value to the fair value less costs to dispose. During the quarter ended June 30, 2015, as a result of the loss of a key anchor tenant, one of the properties in the Company's Brandywine Portfolio, in which an unaffiliated third party has a 77.78% noncontrolling interest, did not generate sufficient cash flow to meet the full debt service requirements leading to a default on the mortgage loan. Management performed an analysis and determined that the carrying amount of this property was not recoverable. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $5.0 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2015. The Operating Partnership's share of this charge, net of the noncontrolling interest, was $1.1 million . The property is collateral for $26.3 million of non-recourse mortgage debt, which matured July 1, 2016. Management does not believe that the carrying values of any of its other properties are impaired as of June30, 2016 . 8 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) Recent Accounting Pronouncements During June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses." ASU 2016-13 requires a financial asset measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. ASU 2016-13 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with adoption permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Retrospective adjustments shall be applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements. During February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases." ASU 2016-02 requires that a lessee should recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from leases. ASU 2016-02 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted and shall be applied retrospectively. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. On January 1, 2016, the Company adopted ASU No. 2015-02, "Consolidation - Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis," which modified the evaluation of whether limited partnerships and similar legal entities are variable interest entities ("VIE's"), particularly those with fee arrangements and related party relationships. There were no entities qualifying under the scope of the revised guidance that were consolidated as a result of the adoption. Accordingly, the adoption of ASU 2015-02 had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. During August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, "Presentation of Financial Statements - Going Concern." ASU 2014-15 requires an entity's management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. ASU 2014-15 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2016. ASU 2014-15 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. During May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods therein, using either of the following transition methods: (i) a full retrospective approach reflecting the application of the standard in each prior reporting period with the option to elect certain practical expedients, or (ii) a retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially adopting ASU 2014-09 recognized at the date of adoption (which includes additional footnote disclosures). The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2014-09 on its consolidated financial statements and has not yet determined the method by which the standard will be adopted in 2017. 9 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 2.EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Basic earnings per Common Share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Common Shareholders by the weighted average Common Shares outstanding. At June30, 2016 , the Company has unvested LTIP Units (Note 13) which provide for non-forfeitable rights to dividend equivalent payments. Accordingly, these unvested LTIP Units are considered participating securities and are included in the computation of basic earnings per Common Share pursuant to the two-class method. Diluted earnings per Common Share reflects the potential dilution of the conversion of obligations and the assumed exercises of securities including the effects of restricted share unit ("Restricted Share Units") awards issued under the Company's Share Incentive Plans (Note 13). The effect of the assumed conversion of 188 Series A Preferred OP Units into 25,067 Common Shares, would be anti-dilutive and therefore not included for the three months ended June 30, 2016. Conversely, the assumed conversion of these would be dilutive and included in the computation of diluted earning per share for the three months ended June30, 2015 and six months ended June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015. The effect of the assumed conversion of 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units into 402,252 Common Shares, would be anti-dilutive and therefore not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and June30, 2015, respectively. Additionally, the 3,600,000 Common Shares that were subject to the forward sales agreement entered into in April 2016 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 as they were anti-dilutive. The effect of the conversion of Common OP Units is not reflected in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share, as they are exchangeable for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis. The income allocable to such units is allocated on this same basis and reflected as noncontrolling interests in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As such, the assumed conversion of these units would have no net impact on the determination of diluted earnings per share. The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the periods indicated: 10 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 3. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS During the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company issued 3.3 million Common Shares under its $200.0 million at-the-market ("ATM") equity program, generating gross proceeds of $114.2 million and net proceeds of $112.7 million . As of June 30, 2016, there was $14.4 million remaining under this program. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units to acquire real estate. The Series C Preferred OP Units have a value of $100.00 per unit and are entitled to a preferred quarterly distribution of $0.9375 per unit. The Series C Preferred OP Units are convertible into Common OP Units at a rate based on the share price at the time of conversion. During April 2016, the Company entered into a forward sale agreement to issue 3,600,000 Common Shares for net proceeds of $124.5 million . As of June 30, 2016, 867,612 of these shares have been physically settled, generating net proceeds of $30.0 million . Subject to the Company's right to elect cash or net share settlement, the Company expects to physically settle the forward sale agreement in conjunction with the closing of its acquisitions. The forward sale agreement expires during April 2017. Noncontrolling interests represent the portion of equity in entities consolidated in the accompanying consolidated financial statements that the Company does not own. Such noncontrolling interests are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets within equity, separately from shareholders' equity, and include third party interests in the Company's Funds and other entities. It also includes interests in the Operating Partnership which represent (i) the limited partners' 3,317,760 and 2,931,198 Common OP Units at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively; (ii) 188 Series A Preferred OP Units at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively; (iii) 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units at June30, 2016 and (iv) 1,045,146 and 929,169 LTIP Units at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE Acquisitions During 2016, the Company acquired the following properties through its Core Portfolio and Fund IV: 11 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE(continued) Acquisitions (continued) Notes: (1) The Company acquired a 49% membership interest in this property for $39.8 million . The Company's pro-rata share of debt assumed was $10.5 million . In connection with this acquisition, the Company issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Preferred OP Units. (2) The purchase price represents the total discounted payments pursuant to a 49 -year master lease entered into by the Company, which is accounted for as a capital lease. During the six months ended June30, 2016 , lease payments totaling $7.2 million were made under this lease. (3) The Company acquired a 20% membership interest in an existing joint venture for $67.6 million . The Company's pro-rata share of debt assumed was $20.0 million of debt. The assets and liabilities of the underlying entity are stated at historical cost basis. The difference between the Company's investment and the historical cost basis will be allocated over the fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities and amortized over their respective lives. For the six months ended June30, 2016 , the Company expensed $1.9 million of acquisition costs in the Core Portfolio and $0.2 million of acquisition costs in Fund IV. Purchase Price Allocations With the exception of 1964 Union Street, which was an asset acquisition, and 991 Madison Avenue, a master lease position, the above acquisitions have been accounted for as business combinations. The purchase prices were allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities based on their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The preliminary measurements of fair value reflected below are subject to change. The Company expects to finalize the valuations and complete the purchase price allocations within one year from the dates of acquisition. The following table summarizes the Company's preliminary estimated allocations of the purchase prices of assets acquired and liabilities assumed during 2016 which have yet to be finalized: During 2015 and 2016, the Company acquired properties and recorded the preliminary allocations of the purchase prices to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on provisional measurements of fair value. During 2016, the Company finalized the allocations of the purchase prices and made certain measurement period adjustments. These allocation adjustments resulted in an increase to depreciation and amortization expense of $1.9 million and a reduction to rental income of $0.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, which related to 2015. 12 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE(continued) Acquisitions (continued) The following table summarizes the preliminary allocations of the purchase prices of these properties and the finalized allocations as adjusted as of June30, 2016 : Dispositions During 2016, the Company disposed of the following properties: Note: (1) Fund III sold a 65% controlling interest in Cortlandt Town Center for $107,250 , resulting in a gain on sale of $65,393 . Properties Held For Sale At June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had no properties classified as held-for-sale. 13 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES Core Portfolio The Company owns a 49% interest in a 311,000 square foot shopping center located in White Plains, New York ("Crossroads"), a 50% interest in an approximately 28,000 square foot retail portfolio located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. (the "Georgetown Portfolio") and an 88.43% tenancy-in-common interest in an 87,000 square foot retail property located in Chicago, Illinois ("840 N. Michigan"). The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. During January 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of a 49% interest in an approximately 123,000 square foot retail property located in Manhattan, New York ("Gotham Plaza"), for a purchase price of $39.8 million . Consideration for this purchase consisted of the assumption of 49% of the existing non-recourse debt of $21.4 million and the issuance of both Common and Preferred OP Units. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. During May 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of a 20% interest in a portfolio of 17 mixed-use properties, 16 of which are located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. and one which is located in Alexandria, Virginia (the "Renaissance Portfolio"). The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. The Company owns a 22.22% interest in an approximately one million square foot retail portfolio (the "Brandywine Portfolio") located in Wilmington, Delaware. Prior to the second quarter of 2016, the Company had a controlling interest in the Brandywine Portfolio, and it was therefore consolidated within the Company's financial statements. During the second quarter of 2016, the arrangement with the partners of the Brandywine Portfolio was modified to change the legal ownership from a partnership to a tenancy in common ("TIC"), as well as to provide certain participating rights to the outside partners. As a result of these modifications, the Company deconsolidated the Brandywine Portfolio and accounts for its interest under the equity method of accounting. Furthermore, as the owners of the Brandywine Portfolio had consistent ownership interests before and after the modification and the underlying nets assets are unchanged, the Company has reflected the change from consolidation to equity method based upon its historical cost. Additionally, during the quarter ended June 30, 2016, the outstanding balance of $140.0 million of non-recourse debt collateralized by the Brandywine Portfolio was repaid. The Company provided a loan collateralized by the partners' ownership interest in the TIC, as further described in Note 6, for their proportionate share of the repayment. Funds RCP Venture The Funds, together with two unaffiliated partners formed an investment group, the RCP Venture, for the purpose of making investments in surplus or underutilized properties owned by retailers and, in some instances, the retailers' operating company. The RCP Venture is neither a single entity nor a specific investment and the Company has no control or rights with respect to the formation and operation of these investments. The Company has made these investments through its subsidiaries, Mervyns I, Mervyns II and Fund II, (together the "Acadia Investors"), all on a non-recourse basis. Through June30, 2016 , the Acadia Investors have made investments in Mervyns Department Stores ("Mervyns") and Albertsons including additional investments in locations that are separate from these original investments ("Add-On Investments"). Additionally, they have invested in Shopko, Marsh and Rex Stores Corporation (collectively "Other RCP Investments"). The Company accounts for its investments in Mervyns and Albertsons on the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have any rights with respect to financial or operating control. The Company accounts for its investments in its Add-On Investments and Other RCP Investments on the cost method as it does not have any influence over such entities' operating and financial policies nor any rights with respect to the control and operation of these entities. During the six months ended June 30, 2016 , the Company received distributions from its RCP Venture of $0.1 million , of which the Operating Partnership's aggregate share was $0.02 million . 14 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES (continued) The following table summarizes activity related to the RCP Venture investments from inception through June30, 2016 : Other Fund Investments The unaffiliated partners in Fund III's investments in Arundel Plaza as well as Fund IV's investments in 1701 Belmont Avenue, 2819 Kennedy Boulevard, Promenade at Manassas, Eden Square, 650 Bald Hill Road and the Broughton Street Portfolio, maintain control over these entities. The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. Self-Storage Management, a Fund III investment, was determined to be a variable interest entity. Management has evaluated the applicability of ASC Topic 810 to this joint venture and determined that the Company is not the primary beneficiary and, therefore, consolidation of this venture is not required. The Company accounts for this investment using the equity method of accounting. During January 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of a 65% interest in Cortlandt Town Center for a sales price of $107.3 million . The Company now accounts for this investment under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. 15 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES (continued) Summary of Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates The following Aggregate and Condensed Balance Sheets and Statements of Income summarize the financial information of the Company's investments in unconsolidated affiliates: 16 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 6.STRUCTURED FINANCING PORTFOLIO As of June30, 2016 , the Company's structured financing portfolio, consisted of notes receivable and preferred equity investments, aggregating $273.5 million . These investments were collateralized either by underlying properties, the borrowers' ownership interests in the entities that own properties and/or by the borrowers' personal guarantee subordinate, as applicable, to senior liens, as follows: Notes: (1) Includes origination and exit fees (2) During January 2016, Fund IV made a $13.3 million loan, which is collateralized by a property, bears interest at 7.0% and matures on July13, 2016 . (3) During February 2016, the Company received full principal repayment of this $7.5 million note. (4) During February 2016, the Company received a payment of $13.4 million , which included $13.0 million of full principal repayment and $0.4 million of prepayment penalty representing interest through June 2016 on this preferred equity investment that was originally scheduled to mature on September1, 2017 . (5) During April 2016, the Company restructured a $30.9 million mezzanine loan, which bore interest at 15% , and replaced it with a new $153.4 million loan collateralized by a first mortgage in the borrower's TIC interest. The new loan bears interest at 8.1% and matures April30, 2019 (Note 5). (6) The principal balance for this loan, which requires no current payments of interest, is increased by the interest accrued. (7) During January 2016, Fund IV made a preferred equity investment in a joint venture for $14.0 million . The investment has a mandatory redemption date of January13, 2021 and earns a preferred return rate of 15.3% . (8) Loan was non-performing as of June30, 2016 . Based on the value of the underlying collateral, no reserve has been established against this loan. (9) During 2016, the Company advanced an additional $0.7 million on two loans collateralized by properties. (10) Consists of three loans as of June30, 2016 . (11) During June 2016, the Company received full principal repayment of a $4.0 million preferred equity investment. 17 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 6. STRUCTURED FINANCING PORTFOLIO (continued) The Company monitors the credit quality of its notes receivable on an ongoing basis and considers indicators of credit quality such as loan payment activity, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, the seniority of the Company's loan in relation to other debt secured by the collateral and the prospects of the borrower. As of June30, 2016 , the Company held one non-performing note. 7. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As of June30, 2016 , the Company's derivative financial instruments consisted of 17 interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $317.0 million , which effectively fix the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") at rates ranging from 1.2% to 3.8% and mature between July 2018 and June 2026 . The Company is also a party to one forward interest rate swap transaction with respect to $50.0 million of LIBOR-based variable-rate debt. The Company also has one derivative financial instrument with a notional value of $29.5 million which caps LIBOR at 4.0% and matures April 2018 . The fair value of these derivative instruments that represent liabilities are included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $16.4 million and $5.9 million at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The fair value of these derivative instruments representing assets are included in prepaid expenses and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $0.8 million at December31, 2015 . The notional value does not represent exposure to credit, interest rate, or market risks. These derivative instruments have been designated as cash flow hedges and hedge the future cash outflows of variable-rate interest payments on mortgage and other debt. Such instruments are reported at their fair values as stated above. As of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , unrealized losses totaling $15.2 million and $4.5 million , respectively, were reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. It is estimated that approximately $4.8 million included in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense in the next 12 months. As of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , no derivatives were designated as fair value hedges, hedges of net investments in foreign operations or considered to be ineffective. Additionally, the Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 18 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 8. MORTGAGE AND OTHER NOTES PAYABLE The Company completed the following transactions related to mortgage notes payable during the six months ended June30, 2016 : Additionally, the Company is in default on one loan with respect to $26.3 million of non-recourse mortgage debt which is collateralized by a property. 9.UNSECURED NOTES PAYABLE The Company completed the following transactions related to its unsecured credit facilities during the six months ended June30, 2016 : The Company repaid the remaining $20.8 million of its revolving unsecured credit facility. During June 2016, the Company canceled the existing credit facility and entered into a new $150.0 million revolving unsecured credit facility. The new facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 140 basis points and matures June 27, 2020 with a one-year extension option. There is no outstanding balance as of June 30, 2016. The Company repaid the $50.0 million term loan and closed on a new $150.0 million unsecured term loan. The facility bears interest at LIBOR+1.30% and matures June 27, 2021 . The Company borrowed $7.5 million on its Fund II credit facility. The outstanding balance under this facility is $20.0 million as of June30, 2016 . The Company repaid $5.3 million on its Fund IV subscription line. The outstanding balance under this facility is $86.6 million as of June30, 2016 . The Company borrowed $5.6 million on its Fund IV term loan. The outstanding balance under this facility is $40.1 million as of June30, 2016 . The Company closed on a $50.0 million unsecured term loan. The facility bears interest at LIBOR+1.30% and matures January 4, 2021 . 19 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 10.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The FASB's fair value measurements and disclosure guidance requires the valuation of certain of the Company's financial assets and liabilities, based on a three-level fair value hierarchy. Market value assumptions obtained from sources independent of the Company are observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy, and the Company's own assumptions about market value assumptions are unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy. The following table presents the Company's fair value hierarchy for those assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of June30, 2016 : In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the Company also has assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. As these assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, they are not included in the table above. Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations as well as any assets that have been impaired (Note 4). Financial Instruments Certain of the Company's assets and liabilities meet the definition of financial instruments. Except as disclosed below, the carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate their fair values. The Company has determined the estimated fair values of the following financial instruments within Level 2 of the hierarchy by discounting future cash flows utilizing a discount rate equivalent to the rate at which similar financial instruments would be originated at the reporting date: 11.RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company earned property management fees, construction, legal and leasing fees from its investments in unconsolidated affiliates totaling $0.4 million and $0.1 million for each of the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and $0.6 million and $0.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As further described in Notes 5 and 6, the Company provided a loan of $153.4 million to the owners of a TIC interest in the Brandywine Portfolio. 20 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 12.SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has three reportable segments: Core Portfolio, Funds and Structured Financing Portfolio. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. The Company evaluates property performance primarily based on net operating income before depreciation, amortization and certain nonrecurring items. Investments in the Core Portfolio are typically held long-term. Given the contemplated finite life of the Funds, these investments are typically held for shorter terms. Fees earned by the Company as the general partner/managing member of the Funds are eliminated in the Company's consolidated financial statements. The Structured Financing Portfolio represents the Company's investments in notes receivable and preferred equity. The following tables set forth certain segment information for the Company, as of and for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, and does not include unconsolidated affiliates: Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 21 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 12.SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 22 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 12.SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 23 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 12.SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 13.LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION During the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company issued 319,242 LTIP Units and 11,094 Restricted Share Units to employees of the Company pursuant to its Amended and Restated 2006 Share Incentive Plan (the "Share Incentive Plan"). These awards were measured at their fair value on the grant date. The total value of the above Restricted Share Units and LTIP Units as of the grant date was $10.1 million , of which $1.9 million was recognized as compensation expense in 2015, and $8.2 million will be recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period. Compensation expense of $0.8 million has been recognized in the accompanying consolidated statements of income related to these awards for the six months ended June30, 2016 . Total long-term incentive compensation expense, including the expense related to the above-mentioned plans, was $3.7 million and $3.5 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, members of the Board of Trustees (the "Board") have been issued units under the Share Incentive Plan. During the quarter ended June 30, 2016 the Company issued 13,491 Restricted Shares and 10,822 LTIP Units to Trustees of the Company in connection with Trustee fees. Vesting with respect to 4,674 of the Restricted Shares and 5,532 of the LTIP Units will be on the first anniversary of the date of issuance and 8,817 of the Restricted Shares and 5,290 of the LTIP Unites vest over three years with 33% vesting on each of the next three anniversaries of the issuance date. The Restricted Shares do not carry voting rights or other rights of Common Shares until vesting and may not be transferred, assigned or pledged until the recipients have a vested non-forfeitable right to such shares. Dividends are not paid currently on unvested Restricted Shares, but are paid cumulatively from the issuance date through the applicable vesting date of such Restricted Shares. Total trustee fee expense, included the expense related to the above-mentioned plans, was $0.5 million and $0.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 24 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 13.LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION (continued) In 2009, the Company adopted the Long Term Investment Alignment Program (the "Program") pursuant to which the Company may grant awards to employees, entitling them to receive up to 25% of any potential future payments of Promote to the Operating Partnership from Funds III and IV. The Company has awarded units to employees representing 25% of the potential Promote payments from Fund III to the Operating Partnership and 9.3% of the potential Promote payments from Fund IV to the Operating Partnership. Payments to senior executives under the Program require further Board approval at the time any potential payments are due pursuant to these grants. Compensation relating to these awards will be recognized in each reporting period in which Board approval is granted. As payments to other employees are not subject to further Board approval, compensation relating to these awards will be recorded based on the change in the estimated fair value at each reporting period in accordance with ASC Topic 718, "Compensation - Stock Compensation." During the six months ended June 30, 2016, compensation expense of $2.5 million was recognized related to the Program in connection with Fund III. The awards in connection with Fund IV were determined to have no intrinsic value as of June 30, 2016. 14. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS During July 2016, the Company canceled the remaining amount on its $200 million ATM program and entered into a new ATM program with aggregate offerings of up to $250.0 million . 25 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion is based on our consolidated financial statements as of June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and for each of the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto ("Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors are set forth under the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (our "2015 Form 10-K") and include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions, which will, among other things, affect demand for rental space, the availability and creditworthiness of prospective tenants, lease rents and the availability of financing; adverse changes in our real estate markets, including, among other things, competition with other companies; risks of real estate development, acquisition and investment; risks related to our use of leverage; demands placed on our resources due to the growth of our business; risks related to operating through a partnership structure; our limited control over joint venture investments; the risk of loss of key members of management; uninsured losses; REIT distribution requirements and ownership limitations; concentration of ownership by certain institutional investors; governmental actions and initiatives; and environmental/safety requirements. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-Q. OVERVIEW Our primary business objective is to acquire and manage commercial retail properties that will provide cash for distributions to shareholders while also creating the potential for capital appreciation to enhance investor returns. We focus on the following fundamentals to achieve this objective: Own and operate a Core Portfolio of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas. Our goal is to create value through accretive redevelopment and re-tenanting activities within our existing portfolio and grow this platform through the acquisition of high-quality assets that have the long-term potential to outperform the asset class. Generate additional growth through our Funds in which we co-invest with high-quality institutional investors. Our Fund strategy focuses on opportunistic yet disciplined acquisition with high inherent opportunity for the creation of additional value, execution on this opportunity and the realization of value through the sale of these assets. In connection with this strategy, we focus on: value-add investments in street retail properties, located in established and "next generation" submarkets, with re-tenanting or repositioning opportunities, opportunistic acquisitions of well-located real estate anchored by distressed retailers, and other opportunistic acquisitions, which vary based on market conditions and may include high-yield acquisitions and purchases of distressed debt. Some of these investments have also included, and may in the future include, joint ventures with private equity investors for the purpose of making investments in operating retailers with significant embedded value in their real estate assets. Maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet through conservative financial practices while ensuring access to sufficient capital to fund future growth. As of June30, 2016 , we operated 168 properties, which we own or have an ownership interest in, within our Core Portfolio and Funds. These properties primarily consist of high-quality retail properties located in key street and urban retail corridors as well as suburban locations within high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas in the United States. 26 Core Portfolio Our Core Portfolio consists of those properties we either entirely own, or partially own in joint ventures, through the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through our Funds. There are 110 properties in our Core Portfolio totaling 4.7 million square feet. As of June30, 2016 , the Core Portfolio physical occupancy was 96.4% and leased occupancy, which includes executed leases for which rent has not yet commenced, was 96.6%. Funds Fund II has four properties, two of which (representing 0.3 million square feet) are operating, one of which is under construction, and one of which is in the design phase. Fund III has nine properties, six of which (representing 1.0 million square feet) are operating and three of which are in various stages of redevelopment. Fund IV has investments in 20 individual properties, 16 of which (representing 1.0 million square feet) are operating and four of which are in various stages of development. In addition, Fund IV is invested in a portfolio of 25 properties (the Broughton Street Portfolio), 15 of which are operating and 10 of which are in various stages of development. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe there have been no material changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our 2015 Form 10-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS A discussion of the significant variances and primary factors contributing thereto within our results of operations are addressed below. Where there were no significant variances from period to period, the information in the following tables is presented without further discussion: Comparison of the three months ended June30, 2016 (" 2016 ") to the three months ended June30, 2015 (" 2015 ") Rental income in the Core Portfolio decreased $2.3 million primarily as a resul t of the change in control at the Brandywine Portfolio ("Brandywine") (Note 5) . Rental income in the Funds decreased $2.3 million primarily as a result of a decrease of $3.5 million relating to property dispositions in 2015 and 2016 ("Fund Dispositions"). These decreases were partially offset by additional rental income related to property acquisitions in 2015 and 2016 ("Fund Acquisitions"). 27 The $3.4 million increase in interest income in the Structured Financing Portfolio was primarily the result of the recapture of a previously established reserve for $2.1 million following the restructuring of a mezzanine loan into a first mortgage loan, as well as new loans originated during 2015 and 2016. Real estate tax expenses decreased in the Funds as a result of Fund Dispositions. The $1.1 million increase in depreciation and amortization in the Core Portfolio was attributable to property acquisitions in our Core Portfolio during 2015 and 2016 ("Core Acquisitions"). This was partially offset by Brandywine. The impairment of asset in the Core Portfolio during 2015 represents a charge within the Brandywine Portfolio (Note 1). Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds decreased $1.5 million primarily as a result of additional distributions in excess of basis from the RCP Venture in 2015. The gain on disposition of property of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds during 2015 represents our pro-rata share from the sale of White City Shopping Center. The gain on disposition of properties in the Funds during 2016 represents our gain on sale from Heritage Shops. Gain on disposition of properties in the Funds during 2015 is from the sales of Liberty Avenue and the air rights at Fund II's City Point project. The variance in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Core Portfolio is due to Brandywine. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Funds represents their share of all Fund variances discussed above. 28 Comparison of the six months ended June30, 2016 (" 2016 ") to the six months ended June30, 2015 (" 2015 ") Rental income in the Funds decreased $3.7 million primarily due to Fund Dispositions. These decreases were partially offset by Fund Acquisitions. The $4.7 million increase in interest income in the Structured Financing Portfolio was primarily the result of the recapture of a previously established reserve for $2.1 million as well as new loans originated during 2015 and 2016. Expense reimbursements in the Funds decreased $2.0 million primarily due to Fund Dispositions and a decrease in property operating expenses during 2016. Property operating expenses in the Core Portfolio decreased $1.7 million primarily as a result of lower seasonal costs during 2016. Property operating expenses in the Funds decreased $1.5 million primarily as a result of lower seasonal costs during 2016 and Fund Dispositions. Other operating expenses in the Funds decreased $1.8 million as a result of lower acquisition costs during 2016. Real estate taxes in the Funds decreased $1.6 million primarily due to Fund Dispositions. General and administrative in the Core Portfolio increased $2.8 million due to increased compensation expense, which included $1.8 million related to the Program (Note 13). The $4.7 million increase in depreciation and amortization in the Core Portfolio was primarily attributable to Core Acquisitions. The impairment of asset in the Core Portfolio during 2015 represents a charge within the Brandywine Portfolio (Note 1). 29 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds decreased $6.4 million primarily as a result of additional distributions in excess of basis from the RCP Venture in 2015. The gain on disposition of property of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds during 2015 represents our pro-rata share from the sale of White City Shopping Center. The gain on disposition of properties in the Funds during 2016 represents our gain on sale from Cortlandt Town Center and Heritage Shops. Gain on disposition of properties in the Funds in 2015 represents our gain on sale from Lincoln Park Center, Liberty Avenue and the air rights at Fund II's City Point project. Interest and other finance expense in the Funds decreased $2.0 million primarily due to an increase in capitalized interest related to our City Point redevelopment project during 2016. The variance in the income tax provision in the Funds resulted from a 2015 corporate federal tax incurred by a Fund IV investor. The variance in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Core Portfolio is due to Brandywine. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Funds represents their share of all Fund variances discussed above. CORE PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE The following discussion of net property operating income ("NOI") and rent spreads on new and renewal leases includes the activity from both our consolidated and our pro-rata share of unconsolidated properties within our Core Portfolio. Our Funds invest primarily in properties that frequently require significant leasing and redevelopment. Given that the Funds are finite-life investment vehicles, these properties are sold following stabilization. For these reasons, we believe NOI and rent spreads are not meaningful measures for our Fund investments. NOI represents property revenues, excluding above and below market rent as well as straight-line rent, less property expenses. We consider NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases for our Core Portfolio to be appropriate supplemental disclosures of portfolio operating performance due to their widespread acceptance and use within the REIT investor and analyst communities. NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases are presented to assist investors in analyzing our property performance, however, our method of calculating these may be different from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. 30 Net Property Operating Income NOI is determined as follows: Note: (1) Does not include the Operating Partnership's share of NOI from unconsolidated joint ventures within the Funds Same-property NOI includes properties in our Core Portfolio that we owned for both the current and prior periods presented, but excludes those properties which we acquired, sold or expected to sell, and redeveloped during these periods. We define a redevelopment property as an asset that is being repositioned in its market or undergoing significant renovation. Redevelopment activities involve taking a substantial portion of leasable space temporarily out of service and typically include structural work, demising of existing space and/or facade renovation. 31 The following table summarizes same-property NOI for our Core Portfolio for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015: The increase in Same-Property NOI in the Core Portfolio for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 were primarily attributable to contractual rent increases and the realization of rent increases from below-market leases. The following table summarizes rent spreads on both a cash basis and straight-line basis for new and renewal leases based on leases executed within our Core Portfolio during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. Cash basis represents a comparison of rent most recently paid on the previous lease as compared to the initial rent paid on the new lease. Straight-line basis represents a comparison of rents as adjusted for contractual escalations, abated rent and lease incentives for the same comparable leases. Note: (1) The average cost per square foot includes tenant improvement costs, leasing commissions and tenant allowances. 32 FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS Consistent with the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition, we define funds from operations ("FFO") as net income attributable to common shareholders (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciated property, plus depreciation and amortization, impairment of depreciable assets and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We consider FFO to be an appropriate supplemental disclosure of operating performance for an equity REIT due to its widespread acceptance and use within the REIT and analyst communities. FFO is presented to assist investors in analyzing our performance. It is helpful as it excludes various items included in net income that are not indicative of operating performance, such as gains (losses) from sales of depreciated property, depreciation and amortization, and impairment of depreciable real estate. Although we calculate FFO consistent with the NAREIT definition, other REITs may calculate it differently and, accordingly, our calculation may not be comparable to such other REITs. FFO does not represent cash generated from operations as defined by GAAP and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash needs, including distributions. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income for the purpose of evaluating our performance or to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. The reconciliation of net income to FFO for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows: USES OF LIQUIDITY Our principal uses of liquidity are (i) distributions to our shareholders and OP unit holders, (ii) investments which include the property acquisitions and redevelopment/re-tenanting activities within our Core Portfolio and the funding of our capital committed to the Funds, (iii) distributions to our Fund investors and (iv) debt service and loan repayments. Distributions In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must currently distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders. For the six months ended June30, 2016 , we paid dividends and distributions on our Common Shares, Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units and LTIP Units totaling $56.9 million. This amount included an $18.8 million special dividend which related to the Operating Partnership's share of cash proceeds from property dispositions during 2015. The balance of the distribution was funded from the Operating Partnership's share of operating cash flow. Distributions of $48.4 million were made to noncontrolling interests in Fund III during the six months ended June30, 2016 . This resulted from proceeds following the disposition of Cortlandt Town Center and Heritage Shops as discussed in Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 33 Investments Core Portfolio For the six months ended June30, 2016 , we acquired four properties for an aggregate purchase price of $190.8 million. This was funded through the issuance of OP Units, the assumption of our pro-rata share of debt and cash. See Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. We currently have an acquisition pipeline of $290.6 million under contract, including $119.7 million of mortgage indebtedness with various lenders that we expect to assume in connection with this pipeline. As this acquisition pipeline is subject to customary closing conditions, no assurance can be given that closing will be successfully completed. Structured Financing Portfolio As of June30, 2016 , our structured financing portfolio aggregated $273.5 million with related accrued interest of $7.5 million. The notes are collateralized by the underlying properties, the borrower's ownership interest in the entities that own the properties and/or by the borrower's personal guarantee. Effective interest rates on our notes receivable ranged from 2.5% to 18.0% with maturities from July 2016 through January 2021. During 2016, we have made investments aggregating $136.8 million in our structured financing portfolio. See Note 6 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. Funds During 2016, Fund IV has acquired two properties for an aggregate purchase price of $13.8 million, of which the Operating Partnership's share was $3.0 million. See Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. Additionally, Fund IV currently has an acquisition pipeline of $36.6 million under contract. As part of our Fund investment strategy, we acquire real estate assets that require significant redevelopment. As of June30, 2016 , we had 10 redevelopment projects, four of which are under construction and six of which are in various stages of development as follows: 34 Notes: (1) Anticipated additional costs are estimated ranges for completing the projects and include costs for tenant improvements and leasing commissions. The Operating Partnership's share of these costs are estimated to range from $28.8 million to $44.7 million. (2) Phases I and II have an estimated completion date of 2016. Phase III has an estimated completion date of 2020. (3) Net of actual and anticipated contributions from retail tenants and proceeds from residential tower sales. In addition, costs to date and anticipated additional costs excludes Tower I. Costs to date are reduced by $5.3 million relating to the New Markets Tax Credits received. Debt Service and Loan Repayments For the six months ended June30, 2016 we repaid 13 loans with an aggregate principal balance of $272.8 million . See Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these repayments. In addition, we made scheduled amortization payments totaling $3.0 million during the six months ended June30, 2016 . Share Repurchase We have an existing share repurchase program that authorizes management, at its discretion, to repurchase up to $20.0 million of our outstanding Common Shares. The program may be discontinued or extended at any time and there is no assurance that we will purchase the full amount authorized. Under this program we have repurchased 2.1 million Common Shares, none of which were repurchased after December 2001. As of June30, 2016 , management has remaining authority to repurchase up to approximately $7.5 million of our outstanding Common Shares under this program. SOURCES OF LIQUIDITY Our principal sources of liquidity include (i) the issuance of both Common Shares and OP Units, (ii) the issuance of both secured and unsecured debt, (iii) unfunded capital commitments from noncontrolling interests within our Funds III and IV of $47.1 million and $231.6 million, respectively, (iv) future sales of existing properties, (v) cash on hand of $83.9 million as of June30, 2016 and (vi) future cash flows from operating activities. Issuance of Equity During May 2014, we filed a universal, unlimited shelf registration on Form S-3. The registration is effective through May 2017 and allows us to issue Common Shares, Preferred Shares, debt securities and other securities with no restrictions on the amount. During 2016, we have issued 4.2 million Common Shares under our at-the-market ("ATM") equity program for net proceeds of $143.2 million. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our ATM equity program. During 2016, we issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units to acquire real estate (Note 3). During April 2016, we entered into a forward sale and an underwritten public offering of 3.6 million Common Shares, which will result in gross proceeds of approximately $125.0 million, before any underwriting discount and offering expenses. During June 2016, we physically settled on 0.9 million of these Common Shares, generating net proceeds of $30.0 million. The remainder of the forward sale will settle on one or more dates occurring no later than approximately 12 months after the date of the offering. Asset Sales During January 2016, we completed the disposition of a 65% interest in Fund III's Cortlandt Town Center for $107.3 million. The Operating Partnership's share of net proceeds was $19.9 million. During April 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of Heritage Shops in Chicago, Illinois for a sales price of $46.5 million. The Operating Partnership's share of net proceeds, net of the repayment of debt was $8.7 million. See Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our asset dispositions. 35 Structured Financing Portfolio Repayments During 2016, we have received repayments in our structured financing portfolio aggregating $24.5 million . See Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for further information of our notes receivable and preferred equity investments, and for payments received during the six months ended June30, 2016 . Debt Financings During the six months ended June30, 2016 , we received loan proceeds of $630.9 million , and made repayments of $747.1 million . See Notes 8 and 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the transactions related to mortgage loans, bond financing and credit facilities completed during the six months ended June30, 2016 . As of June30, 2016 , mortgages, other notes payable and unsecured notes payable aggregated $1,254.2 million , excluding unamortized premium and unamortized loan costs, collateralized by 30 properties and related tenant leases. Interest rates on our outstanding mortgage indebtedness and other notes payable ranged from 1.00% to 6.65% with maturities that ranged from July 2016 to June 2026 . Taking into consideration $317.0 million of notional principal under variable to fixed-rate swap agreements currently in effect, $712.6 million of the mortgages and other notes payable, or 56.8% , was fixed at a 4.73% weighted average interest rate and $541.6 million , or 43.2% was floating at a 2.26% weighted average interest rate as of June30, 2016 . There is $291.2 million of debt maturing in 2016 at a weighted average interest rate of 2.8% . In addition, there is $2.8 million of scheduled principal amortization due in 2016. As it relates to the maturing debt in 2016, we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repay such indebtedness, and, therefore, we expect to refinance at least a portion of this indebtedness or select other alternatives based on market conditions as these loans mature. The following table sets forth certain information pertaining to our secured and unsecured credit facilities: Notes: (1) This is a revolving credit facility. (2) The Fund IV revolving subscription line of credit is secured by unfunded investor capital commitments. 36 The following table summarizes our mortgage and other indebtedness as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : 37 Notes: (1) Represents the amount of our variable-rate debt that has been fixed through certain cash flow hedge transactions. See Note 7 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these transactions. (2) Loan was in default as of June 30, 2016. 38 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS At June30, 2016 , maturities on our mortgages and other notes payable ranged from July 2016 to June 2026 . In addition, we have non-cancelable ground leases, with terms expiring between 2020 and 2078, at five of our properties. We also lease space for our corporate headquarters for a term expiring in 2027. The following table summarizes our debt maturities, obligations under non-cancelable operating and capital leases and construction contracts as of June30, 2016 : (1) The ground lease expiring during 2078 has an option to purchase the underlying land during 2031. If we do not exercise the option, the rents that will be due are based on future values and as such are not determinable at this time. Accordingly, the above table does not include rents for this lease beyond 2031. HISTORICAL CASH FLOW The following table compares the historical cash flows for the six months ended June30, 2016 (" 2016 ") with the cash flow for the six months ended June30, 2015 (" 2015 "): A discussion of the significant changes in cash flows for 2016 compared to 2015 is as follows: Operating Activities Our operating activities provided $11.0 million less cash during 2016, primarily due to the following: $7.2 million of lease payments relating to 991 Madison Avenue during 2016 Additional RCP Venture distributions during 2015 Investing Activities During 2016, we used $121.3 million less cash for investing activities, primarily due to the following: $254.6 million less cash was used for the acquisition of real estate $49.3 million less cash was used for redevlopment and property improvement costs $29.9 million increase in cash collected from the return of capital from unconsolidated affiliates These items were partially offset by: $73.1 million of less cash received from dispositions of properties, including unconsolidated affiliates 39 $64.1 million of additional cash was issued for notes receivable, net of repayments $56.5 million of additional cash was used for investments and advances to unconsolidated investments $17.5 million of cash used for deposits on properties under contract Financing Activities Our financing activities provided $13.6 million more cash during 2016, primarily from the following: $127.3 million of additional cash contributed from noncontrolling interests $120.2 million more cash received from the issuance of Common Shares These items were partially offset by: A decrease of $227.2 million from net borrowings $6.8 million of additional cash distributed to noncontrolling interests OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have investments in the following joint ventures for the purpose of investing in operating properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. As such, our financial statements reflect our investment in and our share of income and loss from, but not the individual assets and liabilities of, these joint ventures. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our unconsolidated investments. Our pro-rata share of debt related to these unconsolidated investments is as follows: Note: In addition, we have arranged for the provision of two separate letters of credit in connection with certain leases and investments. As of June30, 2016 , there was no outstanding balance under the letters of credit. If the letters of credit were fully drawn, the maximum amount of our exposure would be $17.5 million . One of our unconsolidated affiliates is a party to an interest rate LIBOR swap with a notional value of $21.2 million, which effectively fixes the interest rate at 3.49% and matures in June 2023. One of our unconsolidated affiliates has a derivative financial instrument with a notional value of $93.0 million which caps LIBOR at 3.00% and matures in February 2019. Our pro-rata share of the fair value of such affiliates' derivative liabilities, net totaled $0.6 million as of June30, 2016 . 40 INFLATION Our long-term leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation on our net income. Such provisions include clauses enabling us to receive percentage rents based on tenants' gross sales, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or, in certain cases, escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses are often related to increases in the consumer price index or similar inflation indexes. In addition, many of our leases are for terms of less than ten years, which permits us to seek to increase rents upon re-rental at market rates if current rents are below the then existing market rates. Most of our leases require the tenants to pay their share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, thereby reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation.Item 1. Financial Statements. ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS See accompanying notes 1 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited) See accompanying notes 2 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (unaudited) See accompanying notes 3 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER30, 2016 (unaudited) See accompanying notes 4 5 See accompanying notes 6 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION Business and Organization Acadia Realty Trust (the "Trust") and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a fully-integrated equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") focused on the ownership, acquisition, redevelopment and management of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, supply-constrained, densely-populated metropolitan areas in the United States. All of the Company's assets are held by, and all of its operations are conducted through, Acadia Realty Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") and entities in which the Operating Partnership owns an interest. As of September30, 2016 , the Trust controlled approximately 95% of the Operating Partnership as the sole general partner. As the general partner, the Trust is entitled to share, in proportion to its percentage interest, in the cash distributions and profits and losses of the Operating Partnership. The limited partners primarily represent entities or individuals that contributed their interests in certain properties or entities to the Operating Partnership in exchange for common or preferred units of limited partnership interest ("Common OP Units" or "Preferred OP Units") and employees who have been awarded restricted OP units ("LTIP Units") as long-term incentive compensation (Note 13). Limited partners holding Common OP Units are generally entitled to exchange their units on a one-for-one basis for common shares of beneficial interest of the Trust ("Common Shares"). Effective August 10, 2016, the Company formed Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund V LLC ("Fund V"), with a total of $520.1 million of equity commitments with 12 institutional investors. The Operating Partnership's share of equity commitments is $104.5 million . The Operating Partnership is the sole managing member of Fund V. The terms and structure of Fund V are substantially the same as those of Fund IV. As of September 30, 2016, there have been no capital contributions made to Fund V and Fund V has not acquired any investments. As of September30, 2016 , the Company has ownership interests in 116 properties within its core portfolio, which consists of those properties either wholly owned, or partially owned through joint venture interests, by the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through its opportunity funds (the "Core Portfolio"). The Company also has ownership interests in 59 properties within its opportunity funds, Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund II, LLC ("Fund II"), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund III LLC ("Fund III"), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund IV LLC ("Fund IV") and Fund V (together with Funds II, III and IV, the "Funds"). The 175 Core Portfolio and Fund properties consist of commercial properties, which are primarily urban and/or street retail properties, community shopping centers and mixed-use properties with a retail component. The Company and Fund II also include investments in operating companies through Acadia Mervyn Investors I, LLC ("Mervyns I"), Acadia Mervyn Investors II, LLC ("Mervyns II") and, in certain instances, directly through Fund II, all on a non-recourse basis. These investments comprise and are referred to as the Company's Retailer Controlled Property Initiative ("RCP Venture"). The Operating Partnership is the sole managing member of the Funds, Mervyns I and Mervyns II and earns fees or priority distributions for asset management, property management, construction, redevelopment, leasing and legal services. Cash from the Funds and RCP Venture is distributed pro-rata to the respective partners and members (including the Operating Partnership) until each receives a certain cumulative return ("Preferred Return"), and the return of all capital contributions. Thereafter, remaining cash flow is distributed 20% to the Operating Partnership ("Promote") and 80% to the partners or members (including the Operating Partnership). 7 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) Following is a table summarizing the general terms and the Operating Partnership's equity interests in the Funds and Mervyns I and II: Notes: (1) Mervyns I was originally formed in conjunction with Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund, LP ("Fund I"). Fund I was liquidated and dissolved as of December 31, 2015. The above table reflects the combined activity of Fund I and Mervyns I. Fund I and Mervyns I have returned all capital and preferred return. The Operating Partnership is entitled to a Promote on all future cash distributions from Mervyns I. (2) During 2013, a distribution of $47.1 million was made to the Fund II investors, including the Operating Partnership. This amount is subject to recontribution to Fund II until December 2016, if needed to fund the on-going development and construction of existing projects. This amount was recontributed subsequent to September 30, 2016. (4) Represents the total for the Funds, including the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling interests' shares. Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the Company and its investments in entities in which the Company is presumed to have control in accordance with the consolidation guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC"). Investments in entities for which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence but does not have financial or operating control are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Company's share of the net earnings (or losses) of entities accounted for under the equity method are included in consolidated net income under the caption, Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Affiliates. Investments in entities for which the Company does not have the ability to exercise any influence are accounted for under the cost method. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Operating results for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending December31, 2016 . The information furnished in the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflects all adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements for the interim periods. Such adjustments consisted of normal recurring items. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 19, 2016. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, management determined that certain transactions involving the issuance of Common Shares of the Trust and Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, and LTIP Units of the Operating Partnership, should have resulted in an adjustment to the Operating Partnership's non-controlling interest ("OPU NCI") and the Trust's Additional Paid-in-Capital ("APIC") to reflect the difference between the fair value of the consideration received or paid and the book value of the Common Shares, Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, and LTIP Units involving these changes in ownership (the "Rebalancing"). During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Trust increased its APIC with an offsetting reduction to the OPU NCI of approximately $35.3 million , of which approximately $31.8 million of this Rebalancing related to prior years. Management concluded that the Rebalancing adjustments were not meaningful to the Company's financial position for any of the prior years, and the quarterly periods in 2016, and as such, this cumulative change was recorded in the consolidated balance sheet and statement of shareholder's 8 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) equity in the second quarter of 2016 as an out-of-period adjustment. The misclassification had no impact on the previously reported consolidated assets, liabilities or total equity or on the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, or cash flows. Real Estate The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment when there is an event or change in circumstances that indicates that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company measures and records impairment losses and reduces the carrying value of properties when indicators of impairment are present and the expected undiscounted cash flows related to those properties are less than their carrying amounts. In cases where the Company does not expect to recover its carrying costs on properties held for use, the Company reduces its carrying cost to fair value, and for properties held-for-sale, the Company reduces its carrying value to the fair value less costs to dispose. During the quarter ended June 30, 2015, as a result of the loss of a key anchor tenant, one of the properties in the Company's Brandywine Portfolio, in which an unaffiliated third party has a 77.78% noncontrolling interest, did not generate sufficient cash flow to meet the full debt service requirements leading to a default on the mortgage loan. Management performed an analysis and determined that the carrying amount of this property was not recoverable. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $5.0 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2015. The Operating Partnership's share of this charge, net of the noncontrolling interest, was $1.1 million . The property is collateral for $26.3 million of non-recourse mortgage debt, which matured July 1, 2016. Management does not believe that the carrying values of any of its other properties are impaired as of September30, 2016 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements During August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-15, "Statement of Cash Flows - Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments." ASU 2016-15 provided guidance on certain specific cash flow issues, including, but not limited to, debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination and distributions received from equity method investees. ASU 2016-15 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted and shall be applied retrospectively where practicable. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements. During June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses." ASU 2016-13 requires a financial asset measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. ASU 2016-13 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with adoption permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Retrospective adjustments shall be applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements. During February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases." ASU 2016-02 requires that a lessee should recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from leases. ASU 2016-02 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted and shall be applied retrospectively. The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. On January 1, 2016, the Company adopted ASU No. 2015-02, "Consolidation - Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis," which modified the evaluation of whether limited partnerships and similar legal entities are variable interest entities ("VIE's"), particularly those with fee arrangements and related party relationships. Consolidated VIE's are those where the Company is considered to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The primary beneficiary is the entity that has a controlling financial interest in the VIE, which is defined by the entity having both of the following characteristics: 1) the power to direct the activities that, when taken together, most significantly impact the VIE's performance and 2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive the returns from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.The Company reviewed all of its entities in accordance with ASU 2015-02 and concluded that certainof its legal entities, including the Operating Partnership and the Funds, which had previously been consolidated, are now VIE's. As a result of the classification of the Operating Partnership as a VIE, substantially all of the Company's assets and liabilities are assets and liabilities of a VIE. There were no entities qualifying under the scope of the revised guidance that were consolidated as a result of the adoption. Accordingly, the adoption of ASU 2015-02 had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 9 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION (continued) Recent Accounting Pronouncements (continued) During August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, "Presentation of Financial Statements - Going Concern." ASU 2014-15 requires an entity's management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. ASU 2014-15 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2016. ASU 2014-15 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. During May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods therein, using either of the following transition methods: (i) a full retrospective approach reflecting the application of the standard in each prior reporting period with the option to elect certain practical expedients, or (ii) a retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially adopting ASU 2014-09 recognized at the date of adoption (which includes additional footnote disclosures). The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2014-09 on its consolidated financial statements and has not yet determined the method by which the standard will be adopted in 2017. 2.EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE Basic earnings per Common Share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Common Shareholders by the weighted average Common Shares outstanding. At September30, 2016 , the Company has unvested LTIP Units (Note 13) which provide for non-forfeitable rights to dividend equivalent payments. Accordingly, these unvested LTIP Units are considered participating securities and are included in the computation of basic earnings per Common Share pursuant to the two-class method. Diluted earnings per Common Share reflects the potential dilution of the conversion of obligations and the assumed exercises of securities including the effects of restricted share unit ("Restricted Share Units") awards issued under the Company's Share Incentive Plans (Note 13). The effect of the assumed conversion of 188 Series A Preferred OP Units into 25,067 Common Shares would be anti-dilutive and therefore not included for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and three months ended September 30, 2015. Conversely, the assumed conversion of these would be dilutive and included in the computation of diluted earning per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The effect of the assumed conversion of 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units into 402,252 Common Shares, would be anti-dilutive and therefore not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. Additionally, the 2,732,388 Common Shares that were subject to the forward sales agreement entered into in April 2016 that were not settled would be dilutive and are included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. The effect of the conversion of Common OP Units is not reflected in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share, as they are exchangeable for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis. The income allocable to such units is allocated on this same basis and reflected as noncontrolling interests in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As such, the assumed conversion of these units would have no net impact on the determination of diluted earnings per share. 10 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 2.EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE (continued) The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the periods indicated: 3. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company issued 4.6 million Common Shares under its at-the-market ("ATM") equity programs, generating gross proceeds of $158.8 million and net proceeds of $156.8 million . The Company has established a new ATM equity program, effective July 2016, with an additional aggregate offering amount of up to $250.0 million of gross proceeds from the sale of Common Shares, replacing its $200.0 million program that was launched in 2014. As of September 30, 2016, there was $218.0 million remaining under this $250.0 million program. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units to acquire real estate. The Series C Preferred OP Units have a value of $100.00 per unit and are entitled to a preferred quarterly distribution of $0.9375 per unit. The Series C Preferred OP Units are convertible into Common OP Units at a rate based on the share price at the time of conversion. If the share price is below $28.80 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Units will be convertible into 3.4722 Common OP Units. If the share price is between $28.80 and $35.20 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Units will be convertible a number of Common OP Units equal to $100.00 divided by the closing share price. If the share price is above $35.20 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Units will be convertible into 2.8409 Common OP Units. The Series C Preferred OP Units have a mandatory conversion date of December 31, 2025, at which time all units that have not been converted will automatically be converted into Common OP Units based on the same calculations. During April 2016, the Company entered into a forward sale agreement to issue 3,600,000 Common Shares for net proceeds of $124.5 million . As of September 30, 2016, 867,612 of these shares have been physically settled, generating net proceeds of $30.0 million . Subject to the Company's right to elect cash or net share settlement, the Company expects to physically settle the forward sale agreement in conjunction with the closing of its acquisitions. The forward sale agreement expires during April 2017. During August 2016, the Company issued 4,830,000 Common Shares in a public offering, generating gross proceeds of $175.2 million and net proceeds of $172.1 million . 11 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 3. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS (continued) Noncontrolling interests represent the portion of equity in entities consolidated in the accompanying consolidated financial statements that the Company does not own. Such noncontrolling interests are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets within equity, separately from shareholders' equity, and include third party interests in the Company's Funds and other entities. It also includes interests in the Operating Partnership which represent (i) the limited partners' 3,308,875 and 2,931,198 Common OP Units at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively; (ii) 188 Series A Preferred OP Units at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively; (iii) 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units at September30, 2016 and (iv) 1,163,841 and 929,169 LTIP Units at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE Acquisitions During 2016, the Company acquired the following properties through its Core Portfolio and Fund IV: Notes: (1) The Company acquired a 49% noncontrolling membership interest in this property for $39.8 million . The Company's pro-rata share of debt assumed was $10.5 million . In connection with this acquisition, the Company issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Preferred OP Units. 12 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE (continued) Acquisitions (continued) (2) The purchase price represents the total discounted payments pursuant to a 49 -year master lease entered into by the Company, which is accounted for as a capital lease. During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , lease payments totaling $7.8 million were made under this lease. (3) The Company acquired a 20% noncontrolling membership interest in an existing joint venture for $67.6 million . The Company's pro-rata share of debt assumed was $20.0 million . The assets and liabilities of the underlying entity are stated at historical cost basis. The difference between the Company's investment and the historical cost basis has been allocated based on the estimated fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities and amortized over their respective lives. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 , the Company expensed $5.1 million of acquisition costs in the Core Portfolio and $0.4 million of acquisition costs in Fund IV. These amounts include costs related to both consolidated assets and investments in unconsolidated affiliates. Purchase Price Allocations With the exception of 1964 Union Street, which was an asset acquisition, and 991 Madison Avenue, a capital lease, the above acquisitions have been accounted for as business combinations. The purchase prices were allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities based on their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The following table summarizes the Company's allocations of the purchase prices of assets acquired and liabilities assumed during 2016: During 2015, the Company acquired properties and recorded the preliminary allocations of the purchase prices to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on provisional measurements of fair value. During 2016, the Company finalized the allocations of the purchase prices and made certain measurement period adjustments. These allocation adjustments resulted in an increase to depreciation and amortization expense of $1.9 million and a reduction to rental income of $0.1 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 , which related to 2015. 13 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE (continued) Acquisitions (continued) The following table summarizes the preliminary allocations of the purchase prices of these properties and the finalized allocations as adjusted as of September30, 2016 : Dispositions During 2016, the Company disposed of the following properties: Note: (1) Fund III sold a 65% controlling interest in Cortlandt Town Center for $107,250 , resulting in a gain on sale of $65,393 . Properties Held For Sale At September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , the Company had no properties classified as held-for-sale. 14 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 4.ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE AND PROPERTIES HELD FOR SALE (continued) Pro Forma Financial Information The pro forma financial information set forth below is based on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, adjusted to give effect to properties acquired during the nine months ended September 30, 2016, as if they were acquired as of January 1, 2015. The pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and may not be indicative of what actual results would have been, nor does it represent the results for future periods. 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES Core Portfolio The Company owns a 49% noncontrolling interest in a 311,000 square foot shopping center located in White Plains, New York ("Crossroads"), a 50% interest in an approximately 28,000 square foot retail portfolio located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. (the "Georgetown Portfolio") and an 88.43% tenancy-in-common interest in an 87,000 square foot retail property located in Chicago, Illinois ("840 N. Michigan"). The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. During January 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of a 49% noncontrolling interest in an approximately 123,000 square foot retail property located in Manhattan, New York ("Gotham Plaza"), for a purchase price of $39.8 million . Consideration for this purchase consisted of the assumption of 49% of the existing non-recourse debt of $21.4 million and the issuance of both Common and Preferred OP Units. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. During May 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of a 20% noncontrolling interest in a portfolio of 17 mixed-use properties, 16 of which are located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. and one which is located in Alexandria, Virginia (the "Renaissance Portfolio"). The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. The Company owns a 22.22% interest in an approximately one million square foot retail portfolio (the "Brandywine Portfolio") located in Wilmington, Delaware. Prior to the second quarter of 2016, the Company had a controlling interest in the Brandywine Portfolio, and it was therefore consolidated within the Company's financial statements. During the second quarter of 2016, the arrangement with the partners of the Brandywine Portfolio was modified to change the legal ownership from a partnership to a tenancy in common ("TIC"), as well as to provide certain participating rights to the outside partners. As a result of these modifications, the Company deconsolidated the Brandywine Portfolio and accounts for its interest under the equity method of accounting. Furthermore, as the owners of the Brandywine Portfolio had consistent ownership interests before and after the modification and the underlying nets assets are unchanged, the Company has reflected the change from consolidation to equity method based upon its historical cost. 15 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES (continued) Additionally, during the quarter ended June 30, 2016, the outstanding balance of $140.0 million of non-recourse debt collateralized by the Brandywine Portfolio was repaid. The Company provided a loan collateralized by the partners' ownership interest in the TIC, as further described in Note 6, for their proportionate share of the repayment. Funds RCP Venture The Funds, together with two unaffiliated partners formed an investment group, the RCP Venture, for the purpose of making investments in surplus or underutilized properties owned by retailers and, in some instances, the retailers' operating company. The RCP Venture is neither a single entity nor a specific investment and the Company has no control or rights with respect to the formation and operation of these investments. The Company has made these investments through its subsidiaries, Mervyns I, Mervyns II and Fund II, (together the "Acadia Investors"), all on a non-recourse basis. Through September30, 2016 , the Acadia Investors have made investments in Mervyns Department Stores ("Mervyns") and Albertsons including additional investments in locations that are separate from these original investments ("Add-On Investments"). Additionally, they have invested in Shopko, Marsh and Rex Stores Corporation (collectively "Other RCP Investments"). The Company accounts for its investments in Mervyns on the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have any rights with respect to financial or operating control. The Company accounts for its investments in Albertsons, its Add-On Investments and Other RCP Investments on the cost method as it does not have any influence over such entities' operating and financial policies nor any rights with respect to the control and operation of these entities. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , the Company received distributions from its RCP Venture of $0.1 million , of which the Operating Partnership's aggregate share was $0.02 million . The following table summarizes activity related to the RCP Venture investments from inception through September30, 2016 : Other Fund Investments The unaffiliated partners in Fund III's investments in Arundel Plaza as well as Fund IV's investments in 1701 Belmont Avenue, 2819 Kennedy Boulevard, Promenade at Manassas, Eden Square, 650 Bald Hill Road and the Broughton Street Portfolio, maintain control over these entities. The Company accounts for these investments under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. Self-Storage Management, a Fund III investment, was determined to be a variable interest entity. Management has evaluated the applicability of ASC Topic 810 to this joint venture and determined that the Company is not the primary beneficiary and, therefore, consolidation of this venture is not required. The Company accounts for this investment using the equity method of accounting. During January 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of a 65% interest in Cortlandt Town Center for a sales price of $107.3 million . The Company now accounts for its remaining 35% interest under the equity method as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control. 16 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 5.INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES (continued) Summary of Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates The following Aggregate and Condensed Balance Sheets and Statements of Income summarize the financial information of the Company's investments in unconsolidated affiliates: 17 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 6.STRUCTURED FINANCING PORTFOLIO As of September30, 2016 , the Company's structured financing portfolio (the "Structured Financing Portfolio"), consisted of notes receivable and preferred equity investments, aggregating $266.8 million . These investments were collateralized either by underlying properties, the borrowers' ownership interests in the entities that own properties and/or by the borrowers' personal guarantee subordinate, as applicable, to senior liens, as follows: Notes: (1) Includes the effects of origination and exit fees (2) During January 2016, Fund IV made a $13.3 million loan, which was collateralized by a property and bore interest at 7.0% . The Company received received a payment of $13.8 million , which included $13.3 million of full principal repayment and $0.5 million of accrued unpaid interest during the three months ended September 30, 2016. (3) During February 2016, the Company received full principal repayment of this $7.5 million loan. (4) During February 2016, the Company received a payment of $13.4 million , which included $13.0 million of full principal repayment and $0.4 million of prepayment penalty representing interest through June 2016 on this preferred equity investment. (5) During April 2016, the Company restructured a $30.9 million mezzanine loan, which bore interest at 15% , and replaced it with a new $153.4 million loan collateralized by a first mortgage in the borrower's TIC interest. The new loan, which was made to our partners in the Brandywine Portfolio, bears interest at 8.1% (Note 5). (6) During September 2016, the Company made a preferred equity investment in a joint venture for $10.0 million . This investment earns a preferred rate of return of 8.0% . (7) The principal balance for this loan, which requires no current payments of interest, is increased by the interest accrued. (8) During January 2016, Fund IV made a preferred equity investment in a joint venture for $14.0 million . This investment earns a preferred rate of return of 15.3% . During September 2016, Fund IV increased its investment by $1.3 million . 18 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 6.STRUCTURED FINANCING PORTFOLIO (continued) (9) Loan was non-performing as of September30, 2016 . Based on the value of the underlying collateral, no reserve has been established against this loan. The Company monitors the credit quality of its notes receivable on an ongoing basis and considers indicators of credit quality such as loan payment activity, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, the seniority of the Company's loan in relation to other debt secured by the collateral and the prospects of the borrower. As of September30, 2016 , the Company held one non-performing note. 7. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As of September30, 2016 , the Company's derivative financial instruments consisted of 18 interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $366.2 million , which effectively fix the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") at rates ranging from 1.2% to 3.8% and mature between July 2018 and June 2026 . The Company also has two derivative financial instruments with a notional value of $59.4 million which cap LIBOR at rates ranging from 3.0% to 4.0% and mature during April 2018 and August 2019 . The fair value of these derivative instruments that represent liabilities are included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $13.8 million and $5.9 million at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The fair value of these derivative instruments representing assets are included in prepaid expenses and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and totaled $0.8 million at December31, 2015 . The notional value does not represent exposure to credit, interest rate, or market risks. These derivative instruments have been designated as cash flow hedges and hedge the future cash outflows of variable-rate interest payments on mortgage and other debt. Such instruments are reported at their fair values as stated above. As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , unrealized losses totaling $12.8 million and $4.5 million , respectively, were reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. It is estimated that approximately $4.1 million included in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense in the next 12 months. As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , no derivatives were designated as fair value hedges, hedges of net investments in foreign operations or considered to be ineffective. Additionally, the Company does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 19 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 8. MORTGAGE AND OTHER NOTES PAYABLE The Company completed the following transactions related to mortgage notes payable during the nine months ended September30, 2016 : Additionally, the Company is in default on one loan with respect to $26.3 million of non-recourse mortgage debt which is collateralized by a property, in which the Company holds a 22% interest. 9.UNSECURED NOTES PAYABLE The Company completed the following transactions related to its unsecured credit facilities during the nine months ended September30, 2016 : The Company repaid the remaining $20.8 million of its revolving unsecured credit facility. During June 2016, the Company canceled the existing credit facility and entered into a new $150.0 million revolving unsecured credit facility. The new facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 140 basis points and matures June 27, 2020 with a one-year extension option. There is no outstanding balance as of September 30, 2016. The Company repaid the $50.0 million term loan and closed on a new $150.0 million unsecured term loan. The facility bears interest at LIBOR+1.30% and matures June 27, 2021 . The Company borrowed $12.5 million on its Fund II credit facility. The outstanding balance under this facility is $25.0 million as of September30, 2016 , and was repaid upon maturity in October 2016. 20 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 9.UNSECURED NOTES PAYABLE (continued) The Company repaid $47.8 million on its Fund IV subscription line. The outstanding balance under this facility is $44.1 million as of September30, 2016 . The Company borrowed $5.6 million on its Fund IV term loan. The outstanding balance under this facility is $40.1 million as of September30, 2016 . The Company closed on a $50.0 million unsecured term loan. The facility bears interest at LIBOR+1.30% and matures January 4, 2021 . 10.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The FASB's fair value measurements and disclosure guidance requires the valuation of certain of the Company's financial assets and liabilities, based on a three-level fair value hierarchy. Market value assumptions obtained from sources independent of the Company are observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy, and the Company's own assumptions about market value assumptions are unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy. The following table presents the Company's fair value hierarchy for those assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September30, 2016 : In addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, the Company also has assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. As these assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis, they are not included in the table above. Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations as well as any assets that have been impaired (Note 4). Financial Instruments Certain of the Company's assets and liabilities meet the definition of financial instruments. Except as disclosed below, the carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate their fair values. The Company has determined the estimated fair values of the following financial instruments within Level 2 of the hierarchy by discounting future cash flows utilizing a discount rate equivalent to the rate at which similar financial instruments would be originated at the reporting date: 21 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 11.RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company earned property management fees, construction, legal and leasing fees from its investments in unconsolidated affiliates totaling $0.3 million and $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and $0.9 million and $0.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As further described in Notes 5 and 6, the Company provided a loan of $153.4 million to the owners of a TIC interest in the Brandywine Portfolio. Additionally, the Company made a preferred equity investment of $10.0 million in an entity owned by the Company's partners in Gotham Plaza. 12.SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has three reportable segments: Core Portfolio, Funds and Structured Financing Portfolio. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. The Company evaluates property performance primarily based on net operating income before depreciation, amortization and certain nonrecurring items. Investments in the Core Portfolio are typically held long-term. Given the contemplated finite life of the Funds, these investments are typically held for shorter terms. Fees earned by the Company as the general partner/managing member of the Funds are eliminated in the Company's consolidated financial statements. The Structured Financing Portfolio represents the Company's investments in notes receivable and preferred equity. The following tables set forth certain segment information for the Company, as of and for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, and does not include unconsolidated affiliates: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 22 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 12.SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 23 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 12.SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 24 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 12.SEGMENT REPORTING (continued) Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 13.LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company issued 319,244 LTIP Units and 11,092 Restricted Share Units to employees of the Company pursuant to its Amended and Restated 2006 Share Incentive Plan (the "Share Incentive Plan"). These awards were measured at their fair value on the grant date. The total value of the above Restricted Share Units and LTIP Units as of the grant date was $10.1 million , of which $1.9 million was recognized as compensation expense in 2015, and $8.2 million will be recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period. Compensation expense of $1.8 million has been recognized in the accompanying consolidated statements of income related to these awards for the nine months ended September30, 2016 . Additionally, during the quarter ended September 30, 2016, in connection with the retirement of two executives, an additional 29,418 LTIP Units were issued. The value of these LTIP units was $1.1 million and was recognized as compensation expense during the three months ended September 30, 2016. Also in connection with these retirements, the Company recognized $1.8 million as compensation expense relating to the acceleration of LTIP Units granted prior to 2016. Total long-term incentive compensation expense, including the expense related to the above-mentioned plans and accelerated vesting, was $9.1 million and $5.2 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 25 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 13.LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION (continued) In addition, members of the Board of Trustees (the "Board") have been issued units under the Share Incentive Plan. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 the Company issued 13,491 Restricted Shares and 10,822 LTIP Units to Trustees of the Company in connection with Trustee fees. Vesting with respect to 4,674 of the Restricted Shares and 5,532 of the LTIP Units will be on the first anniversary of the date of issuance and 8,817 of the Restricted Shares and 5,290 of the LTIP Unites vest over three years with 33% vesting on each of the next three anniversaries of the issuance date. The Restricted Shares do not carry voting rights or other rights of Common Shares until vesting and may not be transferred, assigned or pledged until the recipients have a vested non-forfeitable right to such shares. Dividends are not paid currently on unvested Restricted Shares, but are paid cumulatively from the issuance date through the applicable vesting date of such Restricted Shares. Total trustee fee expense, included the expense related to the above-mentioned plans, was $0.8 million and $0.7 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In 2009, the Company adopted the Long Term Investment Alignment Program (the "Program") pursuant to which the Company may grant awards to employees, entitling them to receive up to 25% of any potential future payments of Promote to the Operating Partnership from Funds III and IV. The Company has awarded units to employees representing 25% of the potential Promote payments from Fund III to the Operating Partnership and 9.3% of the potential Promote payments from Fund IV to the Operating Partnership. Payments to senior executives under the Program require further Board approval at the time any potential payments are due pursuant to these grants. Compensation relating to these awards will be recognized in each reporting period in which Board approval is granted. As payments to other employees are not subject to further Board approval, compensation relating to these awards will be recorded based on the estimated fair value at each reporting period in accordance with ASC Topic 718, "Compensation - Stock Compensation." During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compensation expense of $3.6 million was recognized related to the Program in connection with Fund III. The awards in connection with Fund IV were determined to have no intrinsic value as of September 30, 2016. 14. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS During October 2016, Fund IV completed the acquisition of a seven-property, 1.1 million square foot portfolio located in Maine, Pennsylvania and New York for an aggregate purchase price of $83.4 million . 26 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion is based on our consolidated financial statements as of September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto ("Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors are set forth under the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (our "2015 Form 10-K") and include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions, which will, among other things, affect demand for rental space, the availability and creditworthiness of prospective tenants, lease rents and the availability of financing; adverse changes in our real estate markets, including, among other things, competition with other companies; risks of real estate development, acquisition and investment; risks related to our use of leverage; demands placed on our resources due to the growth of our business; risks related to operating through a partnership structure; our limited control over joint venture investments; the risk of loss of key members of management; uninsured losses; REIT distribution requirements and ownership limitations; concentration of ownership by certain institutional investors; governmental actions and initiatives; information technology security threats; and environmental/safety requirements. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-Q. OVERVIEW Our primary business objective is to acquire and manage commercial retail properties that will provide cash for distributions to shareholders while also creating the potential for capital appreciation to enhance investor returns. We focus on the following fundamentals to achieve this objective: Own and operate a Core Portfolio of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas. Our goal is to create value through accretive redevelopment and re-tenanting activities within our existing portfolio and grow this platform through the acquisition of high-quality assets that have the long-term potential to outperform the asset class. Generate additional growth through our Funds in which we co-invest with high-quality institutional investors. Our Fund strategy focuses on opportunistic yet disciplined acquisition with high inherent opportunity for the creation of additional value, execution on this opportunity and the realization of value through the sale of these assets. In connection with this strategy, we focus on: value-add investments in street retail properties, located in established and "next generation" submarkets, with re-tenanting or repositioning opportunities, opportunistic acquisitions of well-located real estate anchored by distressed retailers, and other opportunistic acquisitions, which vary based on market conditions and may include high-yield acquisitions and purchases of distressed debt. Some of these investments have also included, and may in the future include, joint ventures with private equity investors for the purpose of making investments in operating retailers with significant embedded value in their real estate assets. Maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet through conservative financial practices while ensuring access to sufficient capital to fund future growth. As of September30, 2016 , we operated 175 properties, which we own or have an ownership interest in, within our Core Portfolio and Funds. These properties primarily consist of high-quality retail properties located in key street and urban retail corridors as well as suburban locations within high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas in the United States. 27 Core Portfolio Our Core Portfolio consists of those properties we either entirely own, or partially own in joint ventures, through the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through our Funds. There are 116 properties in our Core Portfolio totaling 5.1 million square feet. As of September30, 2016 , the Core Portfolio physical occupancy was 96.3% and leased occupancy, which includes executed leases for which rent has not yet commenced, was 96.5%. Funds Fund II has four properties, two of which (representing 0.3 million square feet) are operating, one of which is under construction, and one of which is in the design phase. Fund III has nine properties, six of which (representing 1.0 million square feet) are operating and three of which are in various stages of redevelopment. Fund IV has investments in 21 individual properties, 17 of which (representing 1.3 million square feet) are operating and four of which are in various stages of development. In addition, Fund IV is invested in a portfolio of 24 properties (the Broughton Street Portfolio), 21 of which are operating and 3 of which are in various stages of development. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe there have been no material changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our 2015 Form 10-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS A discussion of the significant variances and primary factors contributing thereto within our results of operations are addressed below. Where there were no significant variances from period to period, the information in the following tables is presented without further discussion: Comparison of the three months ended September30, 2016 (" 2016 ") to the three months ended September30, 2015 (" 2015 ") Rental income in the Core Portfolio decreased $2.3 million primarily as a resul t of a $3.6 million decrease due to the change in control at the Brandywine Portfolio ("Brandywine") (Note 5) offset by property acquisitions in 2015 and 2016 ("Core Acquisitions") . Rental income in the Funds decreased $2.8 million primarily as a result of a decrease of $3.5 million relating to property dispositions in 2015 and 2016 ("Fund Dispositions"). These decreases were partially offset by additional rental income related to property acquisitions in 2015 and 2016 ("Fund Acquisitions"). 28 The $1.5 million increase in interest income in the Structured Financing Portfolio was primarily the result of the recapture of a previously established reserve for $1.3 million as well as new loans originated during 2015 and 2016. This is offset by the collection of $1.5 million of interest in 2015 that was previously reserved. Expense reimbursements in the Funds decreased by $1.2 million primarily as a result of Fund Dispositions. Other income in the Structured Financing Portfolio decreased $1.6 million due to the collection of a note receivable, default interest and other costs, in excess of carrying value during 2015. Other operating expenses in the Core Portfolio increased $2.8 million primarily due to higher acquisition costs in 2016. General and administrative expenses in the Core Portfolio increased primarily as a result of the acceleration of equity based compensation awards related to retirements in 2016. The $1.6 million decrease in depreciation and amortization in the Core Portfolio was attributable to Brandywine. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the Core Portfolio increased $1.1 million primarily due to Brandywine and the Company's investment in Gotham Plaza. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds decreased $3.4 million primarily as a result of additional expense related to the demolition of a building at an unconsolidated affiliate as well as an impairment charge on a master lease position within Fund IV's Broughton Portfolio in 2016. The gain on disposition of property of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds during 2015 represents our pro-rata share of gain on sale from the disposition of Parkway Crossing. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Funds represents their share of all Fund variances discussed above. 29 Comparison of the nine months ended September30, 2016 (" 2016 ") to the nine months ended September30, 2015 (" 2015 ") Rental income in the Core Portfolio decreased $2.7 million due to Brandywine offset by Core Acquisitions. Rental income in the Funds decreased $6.5 million due to Fund Dispositions. These decreases were partially offset by Fund Acquisitions. The $6.2 million increase in interest income in the Structured Financing Portfolio was primarily the result of the recapture of previously established reserves of $3.4 million during 2016 as well as new loans originated during 2015 and 2016. Expense reimbursements in the Funds decreased $3.2 million primarily due to Fund Dispositions and a decrease in property operating expenses during 2016. Other income in the Structured Financing Portfolio decreased $1.6 million due to the collection of a note receivable, default interest and other costs, in excess of carrying value during 2015. Property operating expenses in the Core Portfolio decreased $2.5 million primarily as a result of lower seasonal costs during 2016 and Brandywine. Property operating expenses in the Funds decreased $2.1 million primarily as a result of lower seasonal costs during 2016 and Fund Dispositions. Other operating expenses in the Core Portfolio increased $2.8 million as a result of higher acquisition costs in 2016. Other operating expenses in the Funds decreased $1.9 million as a result of lower acquisition costs during 2016. Real estate taxes in the Core Portfolio increased $1.3 million due to a general increase in real estate taxes. Real estate taxes in the Funds decreased $2.2 million primarily due to Fund Dispositions. General and administrative in the Core Portfolio increased $7.8 million due to the acceleration of equity based compensation awards related to retirements in 2016 as well as increased compensation expense, which included $1.8 million related to the Program (Note 13). The $3.1 million increase in depreciation and amortization in the Core Portfolio was primarily attributable to Core Acquisitions. 30 The $1.5 million decrease in depreciation and amortization in the Funds was primarily attributable to Fund Dispositions. The impairment of asset in the Core Portfolio during 2015 represents a charge within the Brandywine Portfolio (Note 1). Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the Core Portfolio increased $1.1 million primarily due to Brandywine and the Company's investment in Gotham Plaza. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds decreased $9.7 million primarily as a result of $4.0 million of additional distributions in excess of basis from the RCP Venture in 2015, the demolition of a building at an unconsolidated affiliate and an impairment charge on a master lease position within Fund IV's Broughton Portfolio in 2016. The gain on disposition of property of unconsolidated affiliates in the Funds during 2015 represents our pro-rata share from the sale of White City Shopping Center and Parkway Crossing. The gain on disposition of properties in the Funds during 2016 represents our gain on sale from Cortlandt Town Center and Heritage Shops. Gain on disposition of properties in the Funds in 2015 represents our gain on sale from Lincoln Park Center, Liberty Avenue and the air rights at Fund II's City Point project. Interest and other finance expense in the Funds decreased $2.5 million primarily due to an increase in capitalized interest related to our City Point redevelopment project during 2016. The variance in the income tax provision in the Funds resulted from a 2015 corporate federal tax incurred by a Fund IV investor. The variance in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Core Portfolio is due to Brandywine. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Funds represents their share of all Fund variances discussed above. CORE PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE The following discussion of net property operating income ("NOI") and rent spreads on new and renewal leases includes the activity from both our consolidated and our pro-rata share of unconsolidated properties within our Core Portfolio. Our Funds invest primarily in properties that frequently require significant leasing and redevelopment. Given that the Funds are finite-life investment vehicles, these properties are sold following stabilization. For these reasons, we believe NOI and rent spreads are not meaningful measures for our Fund investments. NOI represents property revenues, excluding above- and-below market rent as well as straight-line rent, less property expenses. We consider NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases for our Core Portfolio to be appropriate supplemental disclosures of portfolio operating performance due to their widespread acceptance and use within the REIT investor and analyst communities. 31 NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases are presented to assist investors in analyzing our property performance, however, our method of calculating these may be different from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. Net Property Operating Income NOI is determined as follows: Note: (1) Does not include the Operating Partnership's share of NOI from unconsolidated joint ventures within the Funds Same-property NOI includes properties in our Core Portfolio that we owned for both the current and prior periods presented, but excludes those properties which we acquired, sold or expected to sell, and redeveloped during these periods. We define a redevelopment property as an asset that is being repositioned in its market or undergoing significant renovation. Redevelopment activities involve taking a substantial portion of leasable space temporarily out of service and typically include structural work, demising of existing space and/or facade renovation. 32 The following table summarizes same-property NOI for our Core Portfolio for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015: The increase in Same-Property NOI in the Core Portfolio for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 were primarily attributable to contractual rent increases and the realization of rent increases from the turnover of below-market leases. The following table summarizes rent spreads on both a cash basis and straight-line basis for new and renewal leases based on leases executed within our Core Portfolio during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. Cash basis represents a comparison of rent most recently paid on the previous lease as compared to the initial rent paid on the new lease. Straight-line basis represents a comparison of rents as adjusted for contractual escalations, abated rent and lease incentives for the same comparable leases. Note: (1) The average cost per square foot includes tenant improvement costs, leasing commissions and tenant allowances. 33 FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS Consistent with the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition, we define funds from operations ("FFO") as net income attributable to common shareholders (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of depreciated property, plus depreciation and amortization, impairment of depreciable assets and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We consider FFO to be an appropriate supplemental disclosure of operating performance for an equity REIT due to its widespread acceptance and use within the REIT and analyst communities. FFO is presented to assist investors in analyzing our performance. It is helpful as it excludes various items included in net income that are not indicative of operating performance, such as gains (losses) from sales of depreciated property, depreciation and amortization, and impairment of depreciable real estate. Although we calculate FFO consistent with the NAREIT definition, other REITs may calculate it differently and, accordingly, our calculation may not be comparable to such other REITs. FFO does not represent cash generated from operations as defined by GAAP and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash needs, including distributions. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income for the purpose of evaluating our performance or to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. The reconciliation of net income to FFO for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 is as follows: USES OF LIQUIDITY Our principal uses of liquidity are (i) distributions to our shareholders and OP unit holders, (ii) investments which include the property acquisitions and redevelopment/re-tenanting activities within our Core Portfolio and the funding of our capital committed to the Funds, (iii) distributions to our Fund investors and (iv) debt service and loan repayments. Distributions In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must currently distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 , we paid dividends and distributions on our Common Shares, Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units and LTIP Units totaling $77.1 million. This amount included an $18.8 million special dividend which related to the Operating Partnership's share of cash proceeds from property dispositions during 2015. The balance of the distribution was funded from the Operating Partnership's share of operating cash flow. Distributions of $48.4 million were made to noncontrolling interests in Fund III during the nine months ended September30, 2016 . This resulted from proceeds following the disposition of Cortlandt Town Center and Heritage Shops as discussed in Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 34 Investments Core Portfolio For the nine months ended September30, 2016 , we acquired 10 properties for an aggregate purchase price of $487.2 million. This was funded through the issuance of OP Units, the assumption of our pro-rata share of debt and cash. See Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. We currently have an acquisition pipeline of $140.6 million under contract, including $60.0 million of mortgage indebtedness that we expect to assume in connection with this pipeline. As this acquisition pipeline is subject to customary closing conditions, no assurance can be given that closing will be successfully completed. Structured Financing Portfolio As of September30, 2016 , our structured financing portfolio aggregated $266.8 million with related accrued interest of $7.9 million. The notes are collateralized by the underlying properties, the borrower's ownership interest in the entities that own the properties and/or by the borrower's personal guarantee. Effective interest rates on our notes receivable ranged from 2.5% to 18.0% with maturities from May 2017 through February 2021. During 2016, we have made investments aggregating $148.2 million in our structured financing portfolio. See Note 6 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. Funds During 2016, Fund IV has acquired three properties for an aggregate purchase price of $50.4 million, of which the Operating Partnership's share was $11.6 million. See Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investments. As part of our Fund investment strategy, we acquire real estate assets that require significant redevelopment. As of September30, 2016 , we had 10 redevelopment projects, four of which are under construction and six of which are in various stages of development as follows: 35 Notes: (1) Anticipated additional costs are estimated ranges for completing the projects and include costs for tenant improvements and leasing commissions. The Operating Partnership's share of these costs are estimated to range from $34.1 million to $51.7 million. (2) Phases I and II have an estimated completion date of 2016. Phase III has an estimated completion date of 2020. (3) Net of actual and anticipated contributions from retail tenants and proceeds from residential tower sales. In addition, costs to date and anticipated additional costs excludes Tower I. Costs to date are reduced by $5.3 million relating to the New Markets Tax Credits received. Debt Service and Loan Repayments For the nine months ended September30, 2016 we repaid 14 loans with an aggregate principal balance of $288.3 million . See Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these repayments. In addition, we made scheduled amortization payments totaling $4.5 million during the nine months ended September30, 2016 . Share Repurchase We have an existing share repurchase program that authorizes management, at its discretion, to repurchase up to $20.0 million of our outstanding Common Shares. The program may be discontinued or extended at any time and there is no assurance that we will purchase the full amount authorized. Under this program we have repurchased 2.1 million Common Shares, none of which were repurchased after December 2001. As of September30, 2016 , management has remaining authority to repurchase up to approximately $7.5 million of our outstanding Common Shares under this program. SOURCES OF LIQUIDITY Our principal sources of liquidity include (i) the issuance of both Common Shares and OP Units, (ii) the issuance of both secured and unsecured debt, (iii) unfunded capital commitments from noncontrolling interests within our Funds III, IV and V of $40.2 million, $184.1 million and $415.5 million, respectively, (iv) future sales of existing properties, (v) cash on hand of $49.2 million as of September30, 2016 and (vi) future cash flows from operating activities. Issuance of Equity During May 2014, we filed a universal, unlimited shelf registration on Form S-3. The registration is effective through May 2017 and allows us to issue Common Shares, Preferred Shares, debt securities and other securities with no restrictions on the amount. During 2016, we have issued 4.6 million Common Shares under our at-the-market ("ATM") equity program for net proceeds of $156.8 million. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our ATM equity program. During 2016, we issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units to acquire real estate (Note 3). During April 2016, we entered into a forward sale and an underwritten public offering of 3.6 million Common Shares, which will result in gross proceeds of approximately $125.0 million, before any underwriting discount and offering expenses. During June 2016, we physically settled on 0.9 million of these Common Shares, generating net proceeds of $30.0 million. The remainder of the forward sale will settle on one or more dates occurring no later than approximately 12 months after the date of the offering. During August 2016, we issued 4.8 million Common Shares in a public offering, generating gross proceeds of $175.2 million and net proceeds of $172.1 million. Asset Sales During January 2016, we completed the disposition of a 65% interest in Fund III's Cortlandt Town Center for $107.3 million. The Operating Partnership's share of net proceeds was $19.9 million. During April 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of Heritage Shops in Chicago, Illinois for a sales price of $46.5 million. The Operating Partnership's share of net proceeds, net of the repayment of debt was $8.7 million. 36 See Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our asset dispositions. Structured Financing Portfolio Repayments During 2016, we have received repayments in our structured financing portfolio aggregating $42.8 million . See Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for further information of our notes receivable and preferred equity investments, and for payments received during the nine months ended September30, 2016 . Debt Financings During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , we received loan proceeds of $686.8 million , and made repayments of $809.6 million . See Notes 8 and 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the transactions related to mortgage loans, bond financing and credit facilities completed during the nine months ended September30, 2016 . As of September30, 2016 , mortgages, other notes payable and unsecured notes payable aggregated $1,306.8 million , excluding unamortized premium and unamortized loan costs, collateralized by 38 properties and related tenant leases. Interest rates on our outstanding mortgage indebtedness and other notes payable ranged from 1.00% to 6.65% with maturities that ranged from October 2016 to April 2035 . Taking into consideration $366.2 million of notional principal under variable to fixed-rate swap agreements currently in effect, $805.0 million of the mortgages and other notes payable, or 61.6% , was fixed at a 4.01% weighted average interest rate and $501.8 million , or 38.4% was floating at a 2.35% weighted average interest rate as of September30, 2016 . There is $191.9 million of debt maturing in 2016 at a weighted average interest rate of 2.34% . In addition, there is $1.8 million of scheduled principal amortization due in 2016. As it relates to the maturing debt in 2016, we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repay such indebtedness, and, therefore, we expect to refinance at least a portion of this indebtedness or select other alternatives based on market conditions as these loans mature. The following table sets forth certain information pertaining to our secured and unsecured credit facilities: Notes: (1) This is a revolving credit facility. (2) This facility was repaid subsequent to September 30, 2016. (3) The Fund IV revolving subscription line of credit is collateralized by unfunded investor capital commitments. 37 The following table summarizes our mortgage and other indebtedness as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : 38 Notes: (1) Represents the amount of our variable-rate debt that has been fixed through certain cash flow hedge transactions. See Note 7 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these transactions. (2) Loan was in default as of September 30, 2016 and currently in maturity default. 39 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS At September30, 2016 , maturities on our mortgages and other notes payable ranged from October 2016 to April 2035 . In addition, we have non-cancelable ground leases, with terms expiring between 2020 and 2078, at five of our properties. We also lease space for our corporate headquarters for a term expiring in 2027. The following table summarizes our debt maturities, obligations under non-cancelable operating and capital leases and construction contracts as of September30, 2016 : (1) The ground lease expiring during 2078 has an option to purchase the underlying land during 2031. If we do not exercise the option, the rents that will be due are based on future values and as such are not determinable at this time. Accordingly, the above table does not include rents for this lease beyond 2031. HISTORICAL CASH FLOW The following table compares the historical cash flows for the nine months ended September30, 2016 (" 2016 ") with the cash flow for the nine months ended September30, 2015 (" 2015 "): A discussion of the significant changes in cash flows for 2016 compared to 2015 is as follows: Operating Activities Our operating activities provided $28.8 million less cash during 2016, primarily due to the following: $7.8 million of lease payments relating to 991 Madison Avenue during 2016 Additional RCP Venture distributions during 2015 Investing Activities During 2016, we used $121.2 million more cash for investing activities, primarily due to the following: $99.8 million more cash used for issuance of notes receivable $87.5 million less cash proceeds from disposition of properties, including unconsolidated affiliates $57.6 million of additional cash was used for investments and advances to unconsolidated investments These items were partially offset by: 40 $65.4 million less cash used for redevelopment and property improvement costs $41.0 million of additional cash received from the return of capital from unconsolidated affiliates $26.8 million more cash proceeds from the collection of notes receivable Financing Activities Our financing activities provided $271.3 million more cash during 2016, primarily from the following: $330.3 million more cash received from the issuance of Common Shares $169.5 million of additional cash contributed from noncontrolling interests These items were partially offset by: A decrease of $194.6 million from net borrowings $34.8 million less loan proceeds held as restricted cash OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have investments in the following joint ventures for the purpose of investing in operating properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. As such, our financial statements reflect our investment in and our share of income and loss from, but not the individual assets and liabilities of, these joint ventures. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our unconsolidated investments. Our pro-rata share of debt related to these unconsolidated investments is as follows: Note: In addition, we have arranged for the provision of two separate letters of credit in connection with certain leases and investments. As of September30, 2016 , there was no outstanding balance under the letters of credit. If the letters of credit were fully drawn, the maximum amount of our exposure would be $17.5 million . One of our unconsolidated affiliates is a party to an interest rate LIBOR swap with a notional value of $21.1 million, which effectively fixes the interest rate at 3.49% and matures in June 2023. One of our unconsolidated affiliates has a derivative financial instrument with a notional value of $93.0 million which caps LIBOR at 3.00% and matures in February 2019. Our pro-rata share of the fair value of such affiliates' derivative liabilities, net totaled $0.5 million as of September30, 2016 . 41 INFLATION Our long-term leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation on our net income. Such provisions include clauses enabling us to receive percentage rents based on tenants' gross sales, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or, in certain cases, escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses are often related to increases in the consumer price index or similar inflation indexes. In addition, many of our leases are for terms of less than ten years, which permits us to seek to increase rents upon re-rental at market rates if current rents are below the then existing market rates. Most of our leases require the tenants to pay their share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance, real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, thereby reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 4 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 5 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 6 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Unaudited) Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 7 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) 8 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 9 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Organization Acadia Realty Trust and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a fully-integrated equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") focused on the ownership, acquisition, development, and management of retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, supply-constrained, densely-populated metropolitan areas in the United States. All of the Company's assets are held by, and all of its operations are conducted through, Acadia Realty Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") and entities in which the Operating Partnership owns an interest. As of March31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company controlled approximately 95% of the Operating Partnership as the sole general partner and is entitled to share, in proportion to its percentage interest, in the cash distributions and profits and losses of the Operating Partnership. The limited partners primarily represent entities or individuals that contributed their interests in certain properties or entities to the Operating Partnership in exchange for common or preferred units of limited partnership interest ("Common OP Units" or "Preferred OP Units") and employees who have been awarded restricted Common OP Units ("LTIP Units") as long-term incentive compensation ( ). Limited partners holding Common OP and LTIP Units are generally entitled to exchange their units on a one-for-one basis for common shares of beneficial interest of the Company ("Common Shares"). This structure is referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT or "UPREIT." As of March31, 2017 , the Company has ownership interests in 118 properties within its core portfolio, which consist of those properties either 100% owned, or partially owned through joint venture interests, by the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through its funds ("Core Portfolio"). The Company also has or had ownership interests in 64 properties within its opportunity funds, Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund I, LP ("Fund I," which was liquidated in 2015), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund II, LLC ("Fund II"), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund III LLC ("Fund III"), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund IV LLC, and Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund V LLC ("Fund V," or the "Current Fund," and together with Funds I, II, III and IV, the "Funds"). The 182 Core Portfolio and Fund properties primarily consist of street and urban retail, and suburban shopping centers. In addition, the Company, together with the investors in the Funds, invest in operating companies through Acadia Mervyn Investors I, LLC ("Mervyns I"), Acadia Mervyn Investors II, LLC ("Mervyns II") and Fund II, all on a non-recourse basis. The Company consolidates the Funds as it has (i) the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the Funds' economic performance, (ii) is obligated to absorb the Funds' losses and (iii) has the right to receive benefits from the Funds that could potentially be significant. The Operating Partnership is the sole general partner or managing member of the Funds and Mervyns I and II and earns fees or priority distributions for asset management, property management, construction, development, leasing, and legal services. Cash flows from the Funds and Mervyns I and II are distributed pro-rata to their respective partners and members (including the Operating Partnership) until each receives a certain cumulative return ("Preferred Return") and the return of all capital contributions. Thereafter, remaining cash flow is distributed 20% to the Operating Partnership ("Promote") and 80% to the partners or members (including the Operating Partnership). All transactions between the Funds and the Operating Partnership have been eliminated in consolidation. The following table summarizes the general terms and Operating Partnership's equity interests in the Funds and Mervyns I and II (dollars in millions): __________ (a) As of December 31, 2015, Fund I had been liquidated. (b) Amount represents the current economic ownership at March 31, 2017, which could differ from the stated legal ownership based upon the cumulative preferred returns of the respective fund. 10 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (c) Represents the total for the Funds, including the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling interests' shares. Basis of Presentation Segments At March 31, 2017, the Company had three reportable operating segments: Core Portfolio, Funds and Structured Financing.The Company's chief operating decision maker may review operational and financial data on a property basis and does not differentiate properties on a geographical basis for purposes of allocating resources or capital.Each property is considered a separate operating segment; however, each property on a stand-alone basis represents less than 10% of revenues, profit or loss, and assets of the combined reported operating segment and meets the majority of the aggregations criteria under the applicable standard. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the Company and its investments in partnerships and limited liability companies in which the Company has control in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 810 "Consolidation" ("ASC Topic 810"). The ownership interests of other investors in these entities are recorded as noncontrolling interests. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in entities for which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over, but does not have financial or operating control, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Company's share of the earnings (or losses) of these entities are included in consolidated net income. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. Operating results for theinterim periods presentedare not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year. The information furnished in the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflects all adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements for the interim periods. Such adjustments consisted of normal recurring items. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 24, 2017 and amended on February 27, 2017. Use of Estimates GAAP requires the Company's management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to the valuation of real estate, depreciable lives, revenue recognition and the collectability of notes receivable and rents receivable. Application of these estimates and assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09 , Revenue from Contracts with Customers. ASU 2014-09 is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model requiring a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount reflecting the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 does not apply to the Company's lease revenues, but will apply to reimbursed tenant costs. Additionally, this guidance modifies disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, which defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 for all entities by one year, until years beginning in 2018, with early adoption permitted but not before 2017. Entities may adopt ASU 2014-09 using either a full retrospective approach reflecting the application of the standard in each prior reporting period with the option to elect certain practical expedients or a retrospective approach with the cumulative effect recognized at the date of adoption. While the Company is still completing the assessment of the impact of this standard to its consolidated financial statements, management believes the majority of the Company's revenue falls outside of the scope of this guidance. The Company intends to implement the standard retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of application. 11 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 , Leases. ASU 2016-02 outlines a new model for accounting by lessees, whereby their rights and obligations under substantially all leases, existing and new, would be capitalized and recorded on the balance sheet. For lessors, however, the accounting remains largely unchanged from the current model, with the distinction between operating and financing leases retained, but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee model and the new revenue recognition standard discussed above. The new guidance requires that internal leasing costs be expensed as incurred, as opposed to capitalized and deferred. ASU 2016-02 will also require extensive quantitative and qualitative disclosures and is effective beginning after December 15, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact of the new standard and has not yet determined if it will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements; however, the Company capitalized internal leasing costs of $0.2 million and $0.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 , Financial Instruments Credit Losses. ASU 2016-13 introduces a new model for estimating credit losses for certain types of financial instruments, including loans receivable, held-to-maturity debt securities, and net investments in direct financing leases, amongst other financial instruments. ASU 2016-13 also modifies the impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities and expands the disclosure requirements regarding an entity's assumptions, models, and methods for estimating the allowance for losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with adoption permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Retrospective adjustments shall be applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings. The adoption of ASU 2016-13 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15 , Statement of Cash Flows Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 provides guidance on certain specific cash flow issues, including, but not limited to, debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination and distributions received from equity method investees. ASU 2016-15 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted and shall be applied retrospectively where practicable. The adoption of ASU 2016-15 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations Clarifying the Definition of a Business. ASU 2017-01 clarifies that to be considered a business, the elements must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output. The new standard illustrates the circumstances under which real estate with in-place leases would be considered a business and provides guidance for the identification of assets and liabilities in purchase accounting. ASU 2017-01 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact ASU 2014-15 will have on its consolidated financial statements; however, it is expected that the new standard would reduce the number of future real estate acquisitions that will be accounted for as business combinations and, therefore, reduce the amount of acquisition costs that will be expensed. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-03 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections (Topic 250) and Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323). ASU 2017-03 amends certain SEC guidance in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification in response to SEC staff announcements made during 2016 EITF meetings which addressed (i) the additional qualitative disclosures that a registrant is expected to provide when it cannot reasonably estimate the impact that ASUs 2014-09, 2016-02 and 2016-13 will have in applying the guidance in SAB Topic 11.M and (ii) guidance in ASC 323 related to the amendments made by ASU 2014-01 regarding use of the proportional amortization method in accounting for investments in qualified affordable housing projects (announcement made at the November 17, 2016, EITF meeting). The adoption of ASU 2017-03 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-05, Other Income-Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20): Clarifying the Scope of Asset Derecognition Guidance and Accounting for Partial Sales of Nonfinancial Assets, which amends the guidance on nonfinancial assets in ASC 610-20. The amendments clarify that (i) a financial asset is within the scope of ASC 610-20 if it meets the definition of an in substance nonfinancial asset and may include nonfinancial assets transferred within a legal entity to a counter-party, (ii) an entity should identify each distinct nonfinancial asset or in substance nonfinancial asset promised to a counter-party and derecognize each asset when a counter-party obtains control of it, and (iii) an entity should allocate consideration to each distinct asset by applying the guidance in ASC 606 on allocating the transaction price to performance obligations. Further, ASU 2017-05 provides guidance on accounting for partial sales of nonfinancial assets. The amendments are effective at the same time as the amendments in ASU 2014-09. The adoption of ASU 2017-05 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 12 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 2. Real Estate The Company's consolidated real estate is comprised of the following (in thousands): 13 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Acquisitions During the three months ended March31, 2017 and the year ended December31, 2016 , the Company acquired the following consolidated retail properties (dollars in thousands): __________ (a) These acquisitions were accounted for as asset acquisitions as the underlying properties did not meet the definition of a business. All of the above acquisitions were deemed to be business combinations except 991 Madison Avenue and 1964 Union Street. The Company expensed $0.3 million of acquisition costs for the three months ended March31, 2017 , of which $0.2 million related to the Core Portfolio and $0.1 million related to the Funds and $0.3 million of acquisition costs for the three months ended March 31, 2016, of which $0.2 million related to the Core Portfolio and $0.1 million related to the Funds. 14 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Purchase Price Allocations The purchase prices for the business combinations were allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities based on their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price of properties acquired during the three months ended March31, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016 (in thousands): Dispositions During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company disposed of the following consolidated properties (in thousands): The aggregate rental revenue, expenses and pre-tax income reported within continuing operations for the aforementioned consolidated properties that were sold during the year ended December31, 2016 were as follows (in thousands): Property Held For Sale 15 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) At March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the Company had one property in Fund II classified as held-for-sale with net assets of $21.5 million and subject to a mortgage of $25.5 million , which will be repaid prior to the sale. The property held for sale had net (loss) income of $(0.5) million , and $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Pro Forma Financial Information The following unaudited pro forma consolidated operating data is presented for the three months ended March31, 2017 , as if the acquisitions of the properties acquired during that period were completed on January 1, 2016 and as if the acquisition of the properties acquired during the three months ended March 31, 2016 were completed on January 1, 2015. The related acquisition expenses of $0.3 million and $0.3 million reported during the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively have been reflected as pro forma charges at January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2015, respectively. The unaudited supplemental pro forma operating data is not necessarily indicative of what the actual results of operations of the Company would have been, assuming the transactions had been completed as set forth above, nor do they purport to represent the Company's results of operations for future periods. Real Estate Under Development and Construction in Progress Real estate under development represents the Company's consolidated properties that have not yet been placed into service while undergoing substantial development or construction. At March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the Company had one Core property, two properties in Fund II, three properties in Fund III and four properties in Fund IV classified as real estate under development. At December31, 2016 accumulated costs aggregated $543.5 million . During the first quarter, the Company capitalized $3.8 million of additional costs, placed a portion of the City Point project for $113.2 million into service, and reclassified real estate with a carrying value of $76.4 million into real estate under development, resulting in a balance of $510.5 million at March31, 2017 . Construction in progress pertains to construction activity at the Company's operating properties which are in service and continue to operate during the construction period. 3. Notes Receivable, Net The Company's notes receivable, net were collateralized either by the underlying properties or the borrower's ownership interest in the entities that own the properties, and were as follows (dollars in thousands): 16 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) During the three months ended March31, 2017 , the Company: advanced an additional $0.2 million on a Fund III note, which is collateralized by a property; and increased the balance of a Fund II note by the interest accrued of $0.2 million . During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company: issued one Core note receivable and three Fund IV notes receivable aggregating $47.5 million with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 9.8% , which were collateralized by four mixed-use real estate properties; received total collections of $42.8 million , including full repayment of five notes issued in prior periods aggregating $29.6 million ; and At March31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, one of the Core notes receivable in the amount of $12.0 million was in default; however, no principal reserve was established because the estimated fair value of the real estate collateral exceeded the carrying value of the note. In February 2017, there was an auction pursuant to an Order of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York for the property which is collateral for this note. The winning bid was in excess of the Company's carrying value and accrued interest. The sale of this property was approved by Order of the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of the note issuer and is expected to close during the second quarter of 2017.In connection with this sale, the Company anticipates recovering its full carrying value of principal and interest recognized of $2.2 million upon settlement of this transaction. The Company monitors the credit quality of its notes receivable on an ongoing basis and considers indicators of credit quality such as loan payment activity, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, the seniority of the Company's loan in relation to other debt secured by the collateral and the prospects of the borrower. Earnings from these notes and mortgages receivable are reported within the Company's Structured Financing segment ( ). 17 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 4. Investments In and Advances to Unconsolidated Affiliates The Company accounts for its investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates under the equity method of accounting as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control over the investment, which is maintained by each of the unaffiliated partners who co-invest with the Company. The Company's investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates consist of the following (dollars in thousands): __________ (a) Represents a tenancy-in-common interest. (b) Distributions have exceeded the Company's non-recourse investment, therefore the carrying value is zero. (c) Represents a variable interest entity. (d) The Company is entitled to a 15% return on its cumulative capital contribution and a 9% preferred return on the balance of the loan it converted to equity during 2016, which was $14.9 million and $46.4 million at March 31, 2017, respectively. (e) Represents deferred fees. (f) Distributions have exceeded the Company's investment; however, the Company recognizes a liability balance as it may be required to fund future obligations of the entity. 18 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Core Portfolio The Company owns a 49% interest in a 311,000 square foot shopping center located in White Plains, New York ("Crossroads"), a 50% interest in a 28,000 square foot retail portfolio located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. (the "Georgetown Portfolio"), a 88.43% tenancy-in-common interest in an 87,000 square foot retail property located in Chicago, Illinois ("840 N. Michigan"), and a 49% noncontrolling interest in an approximately 123,000 square foot retail property located in Manhattan, New York ("Gotham Plaza"). In January 2017, an entity in which the Company owns a 20% noncontrolling interest (the "Renaissance Portfolio"), acquired a 6,200 square foot property in Alexandria, Virginia referred to as ("907 King Street") for $3.0 million . The Renaissance Portfolio is now a 213,000 square-foot portfolio of 18 mixed-use properties, 16 of which are located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. and two of which are located in Alexandria, Virginia. The Company owns a 22.22% interest in an approximately one million square foot retail portfolio (the "Brandywine Portfolio") located in Wilmington, Delaware. Prior to the second quarter of 2016, the Company had a controlling interest in the Brandywine Portfolio, and it was therefore consolidated within the Company's financial statements. During April 2016, the arrangement with the partners of the Brandywine Portfolio was modified to change the legal ownership from a partnership to a tenancy-in-common interest, as well as to provide certain participating rights to the outside partners. As a result of these modifications, the Company de-consolidated the Brandywine Portfolio and accounts for its interest under the equity method of accounting effective May 1, 2016. Furthermore, as the owners of the Brandywine Portfolio had consistent ownership interests before and after the modification and the underlying net assets are unchanged, the Company has reflected the change from consolidation to equity method based upon its historical cost. Additionally, in April 2016, the Company repaid the outstanding balance of $140.0 million of non-recourse debt collateralized by the Brandywine Portfolio. The Company provided a loan collateralized by the partners' tenancy-in-common interest, as further described in , for their proportionate share of the repayment. Fund Investments Fund III Other Portfolio included the Company's investment in Arundel Plaza through its date of sale in February 2017. Fund IV Other Portfolio includes the Company's investment in 1701 Belmont Avenue, Promenade at Manassas, Eden Square and, through its date of sale in January 2017, an investment in 2819 Kennedy Boulevard. Self-Storage Management, a Fund III investment, was determined to be a variable interest entity. Management has evaluated the applicability of ASC Topic 810 to this joint venture and determined that the Company is not the primary beneficiary and, therefore, consolidation of this venture is not required. In January 2017, Fund IV completed the disposition of 2819 Kennedy Boulevard, for $19.0 million less $8.4 million debt repayment for a net sales price of $10.6 million , resulting in a gain on disposition of $6.3 million at the property level, of which the Fund's share was $6.2 million , which is included in equity earnings and gains from unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated financial statements. The Operating Partnership's proportionate share of the gain was $1.4 million , net of noncontrolling interests. During February 2017, Fund III completed the disposition of Arundel Plaza, for $28.8 million less $10.0 million debt repayments for a net sales price of $18.8 million , resulting in a gain on disposition of $8.2 million at the property level, of which the Fund's share was $5.3 million , which is included in equity earnings and gains from unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated financial statements. The Operating Partnership's proportionate share of the gain was $1.3 million , net of noncontrolling interests. During January 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of a 65% interest in Cortlandt Town Center for $107.3 million resulting in a gain of $65.4 million and the deconsolidation of its remaining interest ( ). During December 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of its remaining 35% interest in Cortlandt Town Center for $57.8 million less $32.6 million debt repayment for a net sales price of $25.2 million resulting in a gain on sale of $36.0 million , of which the Operating Partnership's share was $8.8 million . 19 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Fees from Unconsolidated Affiliates The Company earned property management, construction, development, legal and leasing fees from its investments in unconsolidated partnerships totaling $0.4 million and $0.1 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, which is included in other revenues in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the Company paid $0.5 million and $0.6 million to certain unaffiliated partners of our joint ventures during the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, for leasing commissions, development, management and overhead fees. Summarized Financial Information of Unconsolidated Affiliates The following combined and condensed Balance Sheets and Statements of Income, in each period, summarize the financial information of the Company's investments in unconsolidated affiliates (in thousands): 20 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 5. Other Assets, Net and Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities Other assets, net and accounts payable and other liabilities are comprised of the following for the periods presented: 21 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 6. Lease Intangibles Upon acquisitions of real estate accounted for as business combinations, the Company assesses the fair value of acquired assets (including land, buildings and improvements, and identified intangibles such as above- and below-market leases, including below- market options and acquired in-place leases) and assumed liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 805. The lease intangibles are amortized over the remaining terms of the respective leases, including option periods where applicable. Intangible assets and liabilities are summarized as follows (in thousands): During the three months ended March31, 2017 , the Company acquired in-place lease intangible assets of $6.8 million , above-market rents of $0.6 million and below-market rents of $1.4 million with weighted-average useful lives of 3.1 , 3.7 and 13.3 years, respectively. Amortization of in-place lease intangible assets is recorded in depreciation and amortization expense and amortization of above-market rent and below-market rent are recorded as a reduction to and increase to rental income, respectively, in the consolidated statements of income. The scheduled amortization of acquired lease intangible assets and assumed liabilities as of March31, 2017 is as follows (in thousands): 22 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 7. Debt A summary of the Company's consolidated indebtedness is as follows (dollars in thousands): __________ (a) At March 31, 2017, the stated rates ranged from LIBOR + 1.08% to LIBOR + 1.90% for Core variable-rate debt; LIBOR + .79% to LIBOR + 2.50% for Fund II variable-rate debt; PRIME + 0.50% to LIBOR + 4.65% for Fund III variable-rate debt; LIBOR + 1.70% to LIBOR + 3.95% for Fund IV variable-rate debt and LIBOR + 1.30% to LIBOR + 1.60% for Core variable-rate unsecured notes. (b) Includes $431,774 and $365,343 , respectively, of variable-rate debt that has been fixed with interest rate swap agreements as of the periods presented. 23 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Mortgages Payable During 2017, the Company obtained eight new non-recourse mortgages totaling $93.0 million with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.68% collateralized by eight properties, which mature between February 14, 2020 and April 1, 2022. The Company entered into interest rate swap contracts to effectively fix the interest rates of seven of these obligations with a notional value of $67.3 million at a weighted-average rate of 1.92% . During 2017, the Company repaid one mortgage in full, which had a balance of $3.5 million and an interest rate of LIBOR + 2.15% , and made scheduled principal payments of $1.9 million . At March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company's mortgages were collateralized by 47 and 39 properties, respectively, and the related tenant leases. Certain loans are cross-collateralized and contain cross-default provisions. The loan agreements contain customary representations, covenants and events of default. Certain loan agreements require the Company to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of debt service coverage and leverage ratios. A portion of the Company's variable-rate mortgage debt has been effectively fixed through certain cash flow hedge transactions ( ). The mortgage loan related to Brandywine Holdings in our Core Portfolio amounted to $26.3 million and was in default at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. This loan bears interest at 5.99% , excluding default interest of 5% , and is collateralized by a property, in which the Company holds a 22% controlling interest. In April 2017, the lender on this mortgage initiated a lawsuit against the Company for the full balance of the principal, accrued interest as well as penalties and fees aggregating approximately $31.0 million . The Company's management believes that the mortgage is not recourse to the Company and that the suit is without merit. In addition, at March 31, 2017, a mortgage loan in the amount of $14.3 million and collateralized by a Fund II property, was in default because its liquidity covenant had been breached. Unsecured Notes Payable At each of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had a total of $0.0 and $9.9 million available under its unsecured term loans. A portion of the Company's variable-rate term loan debt has been effectively fixed through certain cash flow hedge transactions ( ). The Company completed the following transactions related to its unsecured notes payable during the three months ended March 31, 2017: The Company reduced its maximum commitment available on the Fund IV subscription line of credit from $100.0 million to $21.5 million . Furthermore, upon repayment of $74.1 million , net of $10.0 million in draws, the Company was in compliance with its liquidity covenant at March 31, 2017 which was not in compliance at December 31, 2016. The balance was $20.4 million at March 31, 2017 and $94.5 million at December 31, 2016. Total available credit at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $1.1 million and $55.5 million respectively on this line. Unsecured Lines of Credit At March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 the Company had a total of $150.0 million and $147.5 million , respectively available under its unsecured line of credit. The Company completed the following transactions related to its unsecured line of credit during the three months ended March 31, 2017: The Company drew down and repaid $10.0 million on the Core unsecured line of credit. There was no outstanding balance as of March 31, 2017. 24 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Scheduled Debt Principal Payments The scheduled principal repayments of the Company's consolidated indebtedness, as of March31, 2017 are as follows (in thousands): See for information about liabilities of the Company's unconsolidated affiliates. 8. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements The fair value of an asset is defined as the exit price, which is the amount that would either be received when an asset is sold or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers are: Level 1, for which quoted market prices for identical instruments are available in active markets, such as money market funds, equity securities, and U.S. Treasury securities; Level 2, for which there are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the instrument, such as certain derivative instruments including interest rate caps and interest rate swaps; and Level 3, for financial instruments or other assets/liabilities that do not fall into Level 1 or Level 2 and for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring us to develop our own assumptions. Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The methods and assumptions described below were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument. For significant Level 3 items, we have also provided the unobservable inputs along with their weighted-average ranges. Money Market Funds - The Company has money market funds, which are included in Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated financial statements, are comprised of government securities and/or U.S. Treasury bills. These funds were classified as Level 1 as we used quoted prices from active markets to determine their fair values. Derivative Assets - Our derivative assets, which are included in Other assets, net in the consolidated financial statements, are comprised of interest rate swaps. The interest rate swaps were measured at fair value using readily observable market inputs, such as quotations on interest rates, and were classified as Level 2 as these instruments are custom, over-the-counter contracts with various bank counterparties that are not traded in an active market. See "Derivative Financial Instruments," below. Derivative Liabilities - Our derivative liabilities, which are included in Accounts payable and other liabilities in the consolidated financial statements, are comprised of interest rate swaps. These derivative instruments were measured at fair value using readily observable market inputs, such as quotations on interest rates, and were classified as Level2 because they are custom, over-the-counter contracts with various bank counterparties that are not traded in an active market. See "Derivative Financial Instruments," below. We did not have any transfers into or out of Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 measurements during the three months endedMarch31, 2017or2016. 25 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The following table presents the Company's fair value hierarchy for those assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands): In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company had the following interest rate swaps for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): 26 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) All of the Company's derivative instruments have been designated as cash flow hedges and hedge the future cash outflows on variable rate mortgage debt ( ). Risk Management Objective of Using Derivatives The Company is exposed to certain risks arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity and credit risk, primarily by managing the amount, sources and duration of its debt funding and, from time to time, through the use of derivative financial instruments.The Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the values of which are determined by interest rates.The Company's derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing and duration of the Company's known or expected cash receipts and its known or expected cash payments principally related to the Company's investments and borrowings. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to the Swaps if the derivative position has a positive balance.The Company believes it mitigates its credit risk by entering into Swaps with major financial institutions.The Company continually monitors and actively manages interest costs on its variable-rate debt portfolio and may enter into additional interest rate swap positions or other derivative interest rate instruments based on market conditions.The Company has not entered, and does not plan to enter, into any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The following table presents the location in the financial statements of the income (losses) recognized related to the Company's cash flow hedges (in thousands): Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features The Company has agreements with each of its Swap counterparties that contain a provision whereby if the Company defaults on certain of its unsecured indebtedness the Company could also be declared in default on its swaps, resulting in an acceleration of payment under the swaps. Other Financial Instruments Our other financial instruments had the following carrying values and fair values as of the dates shown (dollars in thousands): (a) The Company determined the estimated fair value of these financial instruments using a discounted cash flow model with rates that take into account the credit of the borrower or tenant, where applicable, and interest rate risk. The Company also considered the value of the underlying collateral, taking into account the quality of the collateral, the credit quality of the borrower, the time until maturity and the current market interest rate environment. (b) The Company determined the estimated fair value of the unsecured notes payable using quoted market prices in an open market with limited trading volume where available. In cases where there was no trading volume, the Company determined 27 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) the estimated fair value using a discounted cash flow model using a rate that reflects the average yield of similar market participants. The Company's cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and certain financial instruments included in other assets and other liabilities had fair values that approximated their carrying values at March 31, 2017. 9. Commitments and Contingencies Commitments and Guaranties In conjunction with the development and expansion of various properties, the Company has entered into agreements with general contractors for the construction or development of properties aggregating approximately $37.9 million and $85.4 million as of March 31, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. At each of March 31, 2017 and December31, 2016, the Company had letters of credit outstanding of $2.5 million .The Company has not recorded any obligation associated with these letters of credit.The majority of the letters of credit are collateral for existing indebtedness and other obligations of the Company. In connection with certain of the Company's unconsolidated joint ventures, the Company agreed to fund amounts due to the joint ventures' lenders, under certain circumstances, if such amounts are not paid by the joint venture based on the Company's pro rata share of such amount, aggregating $160.1 million and $165.7 million at March 31, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. 10. Shareholders' Equity, Noncontrolling Interests and Other Comprehensive Income Common Shares The Company completed the following transactions in its common shares during the three months ended March 31, 2017: The Company withheld 4,314 Restricted Shares to pay the employees' statutory minimum income taxes due on the value of the portion of their Restricted Shares that vested. The Company completed the following transactions in its common shares during the year ended December 31, 2016: The Company issued 4,500,000 Common Shares under its at-the-market ("ATM") equity programs, generating gross proceeds of $157.6 million and net proceeds of $155.7 million . The Company has established a new ATM equity program, effective July 2016, with an additional aggregate offering amount of up to $250.0 million of gross proceeds from the sale of Common Shares, replacing its $200.0 million program that was launched in 2014. As of December 31, 2016 and March 31, 2017, there was $218.0 million remaining under this $250.0 million program. The Company entered into a forward sale agreement to issue 3,600,000 Common Shares for gross proceeds of $126.8 million and net proceeds of $124.5 million . As of December 31, 2016,these shares have been physically settled. The Company issued 4,830,000 Common Shares in a public offering, generating gross proceeds of $175.2 million and net proceeds of $172.1 million . The Company withheld 3,152 Restricted Shares to pay the employees' statutory minimum income taxes due on the value of the portion of their Restricted Shares that vested. Share Repurchases The Company has a share repurchase program that authorizes management, at its discretion, to repurchase up to $20.0 million of its outstanding Common Shares. The program may be discontinued or extended at any time. There were no Common Shares repurchased by the Company during the three months ended March 31, 2017 or the year ended December 31, 2016. Under this program the Company has repurchased 2.1 million Common Shares, none of which were repurchased after December 2001. As of March 31, 2017, management may repurchase up to approximately $7.5 million of our outstanding Common Shares under this program. 28 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Dividends and Distributions On February 28, 2017, the Board of Trustees declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per Common Share, which was paid on April 14, 2017 to holders of record as of March 31, 2017. On November 8, 2016, the Board of Trustees declared an increase of $0.01 to the regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 to $0.26 per Common Share, which was paid on January 13, 2017 to holders of record as of December 30, 2016. In addition, on November 8, 2016, the Board of Trustees declared a special cash dividend of $0.15 per Common Share with the same record and payment date as the regular quarterly dividend. The special dividend is a result of the taxable capital gains for 2016 arising from property dispositions within the Funds. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income The following table sets forth the activity in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): 29 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Noncontrolling Interests The following table summarizes the change in the noncontrolling interests for the periods presented (in thousands): __________ (b) Noncontrolling interests in partially-owned affiliates comprise third-party interests in Fund I, II, III, IV and V, and Mervyns I and II, and six other subsidiaries. (c) During the first quarter of 2016, the Company acquired an additional 8.3% interest in Fund II from a limited partner for $18.4 million , giving the Company an aggregate 28.33% interest. Amount in the table above represents the book value of this transaction. (d) Adjustment reflects the difference between the fair value of the consideration received or paid and the book value of the Common Shares, Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, and LTIP Units involving changes in ownership (the "Rebalancing"). 30 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Preferred OP Units There were no issuances of Preferred OP Units during the three months ended March 31, 2017. In 1999 the Operating Partnership issued 1,500 SeriesA Preferred OP Units in connection with the acquisition of a property, have a stated value of $1,000 per unit, and are entitled to a preferred quarterly distribution of the greater of (i) $22.50 ( 9% annually) per SeriesA Preferred OP Unit or (ii)the quarterly distribution attributable to a SeriesA Preferred OP Unit if such unit was converted into a Common OP Unit. Through December 31, 2016, 1,392 SeriesA Preferred OP Units were converted into 185,600 Common OP Units and then into Common Shares. The 188 remaining SeriesA Preferred OP Units are currently convertible into Common OP Units based on the stated value divided by $7.50 . Either the Company or the holders can currently call for the conversion of the SeriesA Preferred OP Units at the lesser of $7.50 or the market price of the Common Shares as of the conversion date. During the first quarter of 2016, the Operating Partnership issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units to a third party to acquire Gotham Plaza ( ). The Series C Preferred OP Units have a value of $100.00 per unit and are entitled to a preferred quarterly distribution of $0.9375 per unit and are convertible into Common OP Units at a rate based on the share price at the time of conversion. If the share price is below $28.80 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Unit will be convertible into 3.4722 Common OP Units. If the share price is between $28.80 and $35.20 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Units will be convertible a number of Common OP Units equal to $100.00 divided by the closing share price. If the share price is above $35.20 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Units will be convertible into 2.8409 Common OP Units. The Series C Preferred OP Units have a mandatory conversion date of December 31, 2025, at which time all units that have not been converted will automatically be converted into Common OP Units based on the same calculations. 11. Leases Operating Leases The Company is engaged in the operation of shopping centers and other retail properties that are either owned or, with respect to certain shopping centers, operated under long-term ground leases that expire at various dates through June 20, 2066, with renewal options.Space in the shopping centers is leased to tenants pursuant to agreements that provide for terms ranging generally from one month to ninety nine years and generally provide for additional rents based on certain operating expenses as well as tenants' sales volumes. The Company leases land at six of its shopping centers, which are accounted for as operating leases and generally provide the Company with renewal options. Ground rent expense was $0.8 million and $0.6 million (including capitalized ground rent at properties under development of $0.1 million and $0.2 million ) for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The leases terminate at various dates between 2020 and 2066. These leases provide the Company with options to renew for additional terms aggregating from 25 to 71 years. The Company also leases space for its corporate office. Office rent expense under this lease was $0.2 million and $0.1 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Capital Lease During 2016, the Company entered into a 49 -year master lease at 991 Madison Avenue, which is accounted for as a capital lease. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, lease payments totaling $0.6 million and $7.0 million , respectively were made under this lease. The lease was initially valued at $76,628 , which represents the total discounted payments to be made under the lease. The property under the capital lease is included in . 31 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Lease Obligations The scheduled future minimum (i) rental revenues from rental properties under the terms of all non-cancelable tenant leases, assuming no new or renegotiated leases or option extensions for such premises and (ii) rental payments under the terms of all non-cancelable operating and capital leases in which the Company is the lessee, principally for office space and ground leases, as of March31, 2017 are summarized as follows (in thousands): A ground lease expiring during 2078 provides the Company with an option to purchase the underlying land during 2031. If the Company does not exercise the option, the rents that will be due are based on future values and as such are not determinable at this time. Accordingly, the above table does not include rents for this lease beyond 2031. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, no single tenant collectively comprised more than 10% of the Company's consolidated total revenues. 12. Segment Reporting The Company has three reportable segments: Core Portfolio, Funds and Structured Financing. The Company's Core Portfolio consists primarily of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas with a long-term investment horizon. The Company's Funds hold primarily retail real estate in which the Company co-invests with high-quality institutional investors. The Company's Structured Financing segment consists of earnings and expenses related to notes and mortgages receivable which are held within the Core Portfolio or the Funds ( ). Fees earned by the Company as the general partner or managing member of the Funds are eliminated in the Company's consolidated financial statements and are not presented in the Company's segments. During 2016, the Company revised how it allocates general and administrative and income tax expenses among its segments to reflect all such expenses as unallocated corporate expenses. The presentation of the 2016 interim periods have been revised to reflect this change. 32 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The following tables set forth certain segment information for the Company (in thousands): 33 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 13. Share Incentive and Other Compensation Share Incentive Plan The Second Amended and Restated 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Share Incentive Plan") authorizes the Company to issue options, Restricted Shares, LTIP Units and other securities (collectively "Awards") to, among others, the Company's officers, trustees and employees. At March 31, 2017 total of 1,794,293 shares remained available to be issued under this plan. Restricted Shares and LTIP Units During the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company issued 292,224 LTIP Units and 7,605 Restricted Share Units to employees of the Company pursuant to the Share Incentive Plan. These awards were measured at their fair value on the grant date, which was established as the market price of the Company's Common Shares as of the close of trading on the day preceding the grant date. The total value of the above Restricted Share Units and LTIP Units as of the grant date was $9.8 million , of which $2.2 million was recognized as compensation expense in 2016, and $7.6 million will be recognized as compensation expense over the remaining vesting period. Total long-term incentive compensation expense, including the expense related to the Share Incentive Plan, was $1.9 million for each of the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively and is recorded in General and Administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, members of the Board of Trustees (the "Board") have been issued units under the Share Incentive Plan. During 2016, the Company issued 13,491 Restricted Shares and 10,822 LTIP Units to Trustees of the Company in connection with Trustee fees. Vesting with respect to 4,674 of the Restricted Shares and 5,532 of the LTIP Units will be on the first anniversary of the date of issuance and 8,817 of the Restricted Shares and 5,290 of the LTIP Units vest over three years with 33% vesting on each of the next three anniversaries of the issuance date. The Restricted Shares do not carry voting rights or other rights of Common Shares until vesting and may not be transferred, assigned or pledged until the recipients have a vested non-forfeitable right to such shares. Dividends are not paid currently on unvested Restricted Shares, but are paid cumulatively from the issuance date through the applicable vesting date of such Restricted Shares. Total trustee fee expense, included the expense related to the Share Incentive Plan, was $0.3 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. No such Awards were issued to Trustees during the three months ended March 31, 2017. In 2009, the Company adopted the Long Term Investment Alignment Program (the "Program") pursuant to which the Company may grant awards to employees, entitling them to receive up to 25% of any potential future payments of Promote to the Operating Partnership from Funds III and IV. The Company has granted such awards to employees representing 25% of the potential Promote payments from Fund III to the Operating Partnership and 14.4% of the potential Promote payments from Fund IV to the Operating Partnership. Payments to senior executives under the Program require further Board approval at the time any potential payments are due pursuant to these grants. Compensation relating to these awards will be recognized in each reporting period in which Board approval is granted. As payments to other employees are not subject to further Board approval, compensation relating to these awards will be recorded based on the estimated fair value at each reporting period in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation. The awards in connection with Fund IV were determined to have no intrinsic value as of March 31, 2017. Compensation expense of $0.3 million and $1.5 million was recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, related to the Program in connection with Fund III. 34 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) A summary of the status of the Company's unvested Restricted Shares and LTIP Units is presented below: The weighted-average fair value for Restricted Shares and LTIP Units granted for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016 were $31.00 and $34.50 , respectively. As of March 31, 2017, there was $20.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the Share Incentive Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years. The total fair value of Restricted Shares that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016, was $0.4 million and $0.7 million , respectively. The total fair value of LTIP Units that vested during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016, was $8.2 million and $13.6 million , respectively. Other Plans On a combined basis, the Company incurred a total of $0.1 million related to the following employee benefit plans for each of the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively: Employee Share Purchase Plan The Acadia Realty Trust Employee Share Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan"), allows eligible employees of the Company to purchase Common Shares through payroll deductions. The Purchase Plan provides for employees to purchase Common Shares on a quarterly basis at a 15% discount to the closing price of the Company's Common Shares on either the first day or the last day of the quarter, whichever is lower. A participant may not purchase more the $25,000 in Common Shares per year. Compensation expense will be recognized by the Company to the extent of the above discount to the closing price of the Common Shares with respect to the applicable quarter. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, a total of 841 and 968 Common Shares, respectively, were purchased by employees under the Purchase Plan. Deferred Share Plan During May of 2006, the Company adopted a Trustee Deferral and Distribution Election ("Trustee Deferral Plan"), under which the participating Trustees earn deferred compensation. Employee 401(k) Plan The Company maintains a 401(k) plan for employees under which the Company currently matches 50% of a plan participant's contribution up to 6% of the employee's annual salary. A plan participant may contribute up to a maximum of 15% of their compensation, up to $18,000 , for the year ended December31, 2017. 35 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 14. Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per Common Share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Common Shareholders by the weighted average Common Shares outstanding. During the periods presented, the Company had unvested LTIP Units which provide for non-forfeitable rights to dividend equivalent payments. Accordingly, these unvested LTIP Units are considered participating securities and are included in the computation of basic earnings per Common Share pursuant to the two-class method. Diluted earnings per Common Share reflects the potential dilution of the conversion of obligations and the assumed exercises of securities including the effects of restricted share unit ("Restricted Share Units") and share option awards issued under the Company's Share Incentive Plans ( ). The effect of the assumed conversion of 188 Series A Preferred OP Units into 25,067 Common Shares would be anti-dilutive and therefore is not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Conversely, the assumed conversion of these would be dilutive and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months endedMarch 31, 2016. The effect of the assumed conversion of 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units into 471,035 Common Shares, would be anti-dilutive and therefore is not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Conversely, the assumed conversion of 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units into 403,054 Common Shares, would be dilutive and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months endedMarch 31, 2016. The effect of the conversion of Common OP Units is not reflected in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share, as they are exchangeable for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis. The income allocable to such units is allocated on this same basis and reflected as noncontrolling interests in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As such, the assumed conversion of these units would have no net impact on the determination of diluted earnings per share. 15. Subsequent Event Financing In April 2017 Fund IV obtained a non-recourse mortgage in the amount of $20.0 million for its unconsolidated 650 Bald Hill Road property ( ). 36 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW As of March31, 2017 , we owned 182 properties, which we own or have an ownership interest in, within our Core Portfolio or Funds. Our Core Portfolio consists of those properties either 100% owned, or partially owned through joint venture interests by the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through our Funds. These properties primarily consist of street and urban retail, and dense suburban shopping centers. The following sets forth a summary of our wholly-owned and partially-owned retail properties at March31, 2017 : The majority of our operating income is derived from rental revenues from operating properties, including expense recoveries from tenants, offset by operating and overhead expenses. As our RCP Venture invests in operating companies, we consider these investments to be private-equity style, as opposed to real estate, investments. Since these are not traditional investments in operating rental real estate but investments in operating businesses, the Operating Partnership typically invests in these through a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). Our primary business objective is to acquire and manage commercial retail properties that will provide cash for distributions to shareholders while also creating the potential for capital appreciation to enhance investor returns. We focus on the following fundamentals to achieve this objective: Own and operate a Core Portfolio of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas and create value through accretive development and re-tenanting activities coupled with the acquisition of high-quality assets that have the long-term potential to outperform the asset class as part of our Core asset recycling and acquisition initiative. Generate additional external growth through an opportunistic yet disciplined acquisition program within our Funds. We target transactions with high inherent opportunity for the creation of additional value through: value-add investments in street retail properties, located in established and "next generation" submarkets, with re-tenanting or repositioning opportunities, opportunistic acquisitions of well-located real-estate anchored by distressed retailers, and other opportunistic acquisitions which may include high-yield acquisitions and purchases of distressed debt. 37 Some of these investments historically have also included, and may in the future include, joint ventures with private equity investors for the purpose of making investments in operating retailers with significant embedded value in their real estate assets. Maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet through conservative financial practices while ensuring access to sufficient capital to fund future growth. SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS DURING FIRST QUARTER 2017 Investments During the three months ended March 31, 2017 ("First Quarter 2017"), within our Core and Fund portfolios we invested in two properties as follows: Dispositions of Real Estate During First Quarter 2017, within our Funds we sold two properties for an aggregate sales price of $47.8 million and our proportionate share of the aggregate gains was $2.7 million as follows: Financings Fund IV also obtained an aggregate of $91.3 million in financings with eight new non-recourse mortgages. 38 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an overview of our three reportable segments. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we revised how we allocate general and administrative and income tax expenses among our segments. All prior periods presented herein have been revised to conform to this new presentation. Comparison of Results for the Three Months Ended March31, 2017 to the Three Months Ended March31, 2016 The results of operations by reportable segment for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 are summarized in the table below (in millions, totals may not add due to rounding): Core Portfolio The results of operations for our Core Portfolio segment are depicted in the table above under the headings labeled "Core." Segment net income attributable to Acadia for our Core Portfolio increased by $1.0 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period as a result of the changes as further described below. Revenues from our Core Portfolio increased by $6.3 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016 as well as the accrual of reimbursements in the current year period related to a real estate tax reassessment for certain properties for $1.8 million, see below. Depreciation and amortization for our Core Portfolio increased by $2.9 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016. Property operating, other operating expenses and real estate taxes for our Core Portfolio increased by $4.3 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016 and an increased real estate tax reassessment for certain properties for $1.8 million. 39 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in our Core Portfolio decreased by $2.4 million for the three months ended compared to the prior year period due to the change in control of the Brandywine Portfolio ( ). Funds The results of operations for our Funds segment are depicted in the table above under the headings labeled "Funds." Segment net income attributable to Acadia for the Funds decreased by $19.4 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period as a result of the changes described below. Revenues from the Funds increased by $7.7 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016 and 2017 as well as a portion of the City Point development project being partially placed in service in 2016 ( ). Depreciation and amortization for the Funds increased by $4.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the acquisitions in 2016 and 2017 as well as a portion of the City Point development project being partially placed in service in 2016. Property operating, other operating expenses and real estate taxes for the Funds increased by $2.8 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the acquisitions in 2016 and 2017. Gain on disposition of properties for the Funds decreased by $65.4 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the sale of Fund III's 65% interest in Cortlandt Town Center in the prior year period ( ). Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates for the Funds increased by $10.7 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the Fund's proportionate share of $11.5 million from the sale of Arundel Plaza and 2819 Kennedy Boulevard ( ). Interest expense for the Funds increased by $3.0 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to a $1.5 million increase related to higher average interest rates in 2016 and a $1.2 million increase related to higher average outstanding borrowings in 2016. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Funds decreased by $38.2 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to all of the Fund variances discussed above. Structured Financing The results of operations for our Structured Financing segment are depicted in the table above under the headings labeled "SF." Interest income and segment net income attributable to Acadia from Structured Financing increased by $4.4 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to the prior year period primarily due to new loans originated during 2016 and the accrual of default interest of $2.2 million during the current year period on a past due note ( ). Unallocated The Company does not allocate general and administrative expense and income taxes to its reportable segments. NON-GAAP MEASURES Net Property Operating Income The following discussion of net property operating income ("NOI") and rent spreads on new and renewal leases includes the activity from both our consolidated and our pro-rata share of unconsolidated properties within our Core Portfolio. Our Funds invest primarily in properties that typically require significant leasing and development. Given that the Funds are finite-life investment vehicles, these properties are sold following stabilization. For these reasons, we believe NOI and rent spreads are not meaningful measures for our Fund investments. NOI represents property revenues less property expenses. We consider NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases for our Core Portfolio to be appropriate supplemental disclosures of portfolio operating performance due to their widespread acceptance and use within the REIT investor and analyst communities. NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases are presented to assist 40 investors in analyzing our property performance, however, our method of calculating these may be different from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. A reconciliation of consolidated operating income to net operating income - Core Portfolio follows (in thousands): __________ (a) Does not include the Operating Partnership's share of NOI from unconsolidated joint ventures within the Funds Same-Property NOI includes Core Portfolio properties that we owned for both the current and prior periods presented, but excludes those properties which we acquired, sold or expected to sell, and developed during these periods. The following table summarizes Same-Property NOI for our Core Portfolio (in thousands): 41 Rent Spreads on Core Portfolio New and Renewal Leases The following table summarizes rent spreads on both a cash basis and straight-line basis for new and renewal leases based on leases executed within our Core Portfolio for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Cash basis represents a comparison of rent most recently paid on the previous lease as compared to the initial rent paid on the new lease. Straight-line basis represents a comparison of rents as adjusted for contractual escalations, abated rent and lease incentives for the same comparable leases. __________ (a) The average cost per square foot includes tenant improvement costs, leasing commissions and tenant allowances. Funds from Operations We consider funds from operations ("FFO") as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") to be an appropriate supplemental disclosure of operating performance for an equity REIT due to its widespread acceptance and use within the REIT and analyst communities. FFO is presented to assist investors in analyzing our performance. It is helpful as it excludes various items included in net income that are not indicative of the operating performance, such as gains (losses)from sales of depreciated property, depreciation and amortization, and impairment of depreciable real estate. Our method of calculating FFO may be different from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. FFO does not represent cash generated from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash needs, including distributions. It should not be considered as an alternative to net income for the purpose of evaluating our performance or to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Consistent with the NAREIT definition, we define FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (losses)from sales of depreciated property and impairment of depreciable real estate, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. 42 A reconciliation of net income attributable to Acadia to FFO follows (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts): __________ LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Uses of Liquidity and Cash Requirements Our principal uses of liquidity are (i) distributions to our shareholders and OP unit holders, (ii) investments which include the funding of our capital committed to the Funds and property acquisitions and development/re-tenanting activities within our Core Portfolio, (iii) distributions to our Fund investors and (iv) debt service and loan repayments. Distributions In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must currently distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders. During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, we paid dividends and distributions on our Common Shares, Common OP Units and Preferred OP Units totaling $36.6 million. This amount included a $13.3 million special dividend that was paid in January 2017, which related to the Operating Partnership's share of cash proceeds from property distributions during 2016. The balance of the distribution was funded from the Operating Partnership's share of operating cash flow. Distributions of $3.6 million were made to noncontrolling interests in Fund III during the three months ended March 31, 2017. This resulted from proceeds related to the disposition of Arundel Plaza as discussed in . Investments in Real Estate During the three months ended March 31, 2017, within our Core and Fund portfolios we acquired two properties aggregating $38.4 million as follows: (i) in our Core portfolio, our Renaissance investment, in which we hold a 20% interest, acquired a $3.0 million property ( ) and (ii) in Fund IV we acquired a consolidated property for $35.4 million ( ). 43 Capital Commitments During the three months ended March31, 2017 , we made capital contributions of $6.0 million to Fund IV in connection with acquisitions and development costs. Capital contributed will be used by the Funds to acquire and operate real estate assets. At March 31, 2017, our share of the remaining capital commitments to our Funds aggregated $149.9 million as follows: Fund II was launched in June 2004 with total committed capital of $300.0 million of which our share was $85.0 million, which has been fully funded. $13.1 million to Fund III. Fund III was launched in May 2007 with total committed capital of $450.0 million of which our original share was $89.6 million. During 2015, we acquired an additional interest, which had an original capital commitment of $20.9 million. $32.3 million to Fund IV. Fund IV was launched in May 2012 with total committed capital of $530.0 million of which our original share was $122.5 million. $104.5 million to Fund V. Fund V was launched in August 2016 with total committed capital of $520.0 million of which our original share is $104.5 million. Development Activities During the three months ended March31, 2017 , costs associated with development activities totaled $22.1 million. These costs primarily related to Fund II's City Point project. At March 31, 2017, we had 14 properties under development for which the estimated total cost to complete these projects through 2020 was $98.3 million to $159.5 million and our share was approximately $23.6 million to $38.9 million. Debt A summary of our consolidated debt is as follows (in thousands): As of March31, 2017 , our consolidated outstanding mortgage and notes payable aggregated $1.5 billion , excluding unamortized premium of $1.2 million and unamortized loan costs of $18.6 million , and were collateralized by 47 properties and related tenant leases. Interest rates on our outstanding indebtedness ranged from 1.0% to 5.9% with maturities that ranged from May1, 2017 , to April15, 2035 . Taking into consideration $431.8 million of notional principal under variable to fixed-rate swap agreements currently in effect, $926.3 million of the portfolio debt, or 61.0% , was fixed at a 3.85% weighted average interest rate and $593.1 million , or 39.0% was floating at a 2.92% weighted average interest rate as of March31, 2017 . There is $268.6 million of debt maturing in 2017 at a weighted-average interest rate of 3.59% . In addition, there is $5.3 million of scheduled principal amortization due in 2017. In addition, the Company's share of scheduled remaining 2017 principal payments and maturities on its unconsolidated debt was $9.9 million at March31, 2017 . As it relates to the maturing debt in 2017, we may not have sufficient cash on hand to repay such indebtedness, and, therefore, we expect to refinance at least a portion of this indebtedness or select other alternatives based on market conditions as these loans mature; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain financing at acceptable terms. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of capital for funding our liquidity needs include (i) the issuance of both public equity and OP Units, (ii) the issuance of both secured and unsecured debt, (iii) unfunded capital commitments from noncontrolling interests within our Funds, (iv) future sales of existing properties and (v) cash on hand and future cash flow from operating activities. Our cash on hand in our consolidated subsidiaries at March31, 2017 totaled $47.7 million . Our remaining sources of liquidity are described further below. 44 Issuance of Equity We have an at-the-market ("ATM") equity issuance program which provides us an efficient and low-cost vehicle for raising public equity to fund our capital needs. Through this program, we have been able to effectively "match-fund" the required equity for our Core Portfolio and Fund acquisitions through the issuance of Common Shares over extended periods employing a price averaging strategy. In addition, from time to time, we have issued and intend to continue to issue, equity in follow-on offerings separate from our ATM program. Net proceeds raised through our ATM program and follow-on offerings are primarily used for acquisitions, both for our Core Portfolio and our pro-rata share of Fund acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. There were no issuances of equity under the ATM program during the three months ended March 31, 2017. Fund Capital During the three months ended March 31, 2017, noncontrolling interest capital contributions to Fund IV of $20.1 million were primarily used to fund recent acquisitions and development activities. At March 31, 2017, unfunded capital commitments from noncontrolling interests within our Funds III, IV and V were $40.2 million, $107.1 million and $415.5 million, respectively. Asset Sales During the three months ended March 31, 2017, within our Fund portfolio we sold two properties for an aggregate sales price of $47.8 million and recognized aggregate gains of $14.5 million as follows: During the three months ended March 31, 2017, Fund III sold an unconsolidated property, Arundel Plaza, with a sales price of $28.8 million and recognized a gain on disposition of properties of $8.2 million of which our proportionate share was $1.3 million ( ); and Fund IV sold its 2819 Kennedy Boulevard property for $19.0 million and recognized a gain of $6.3 million of which our proportionate share was $1.4 million. Structured Financing Repayments Scheduled principal collections on our structured financing portfolio ( ) for the remainder of 2017 total $36.0 million. Financing and Debt As of March31, 2017 , we had $148.6 million of additional capacity under existing revolving debt facilities. In addition, at that date we had 63 unleveraged consolidated properties with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $1.4 billion and 27 unleveraged unconsolidated properties for which our share of the carrying value was $95.4 million, although there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain financing for these properties at favorable terms if at all. HISTORICAL CASH FLOW The following table compares the historical cash flow for the three months ended March31, 2017 with the cash flow for the three months ended March31, 2016 (in millions): Operating Activities Our operating activities provided $5.5 million more cash during the three months ended March31, 2017 , primarily due to additional cash flow from 2016 Core and Fund acquisitions. Investing Activities During the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016 , our investing activities used an additional $112.1 million of cash, primarily due to (i) $79.4 million less cash received from the disposition of properties, including unconsolidated affiliates, (ii) $31.6 million less cash received from return of capital from unconsolidated affiliates, (iii) an additional $22.4 million used for the acquisition of real estate, and (iv) $20.5 million less cash received from repayments of 45 notes receivable. These items were partially offset by (i) $27.7 million less cash used for the issuance of notes receivable and (ii) $10.4 million less cash used for development and property improvement costs. Financing Activities Our financing activities used $70.4 million less cash during the three months ended March31, 2017 , primarily from (i) an increase of $78.1 million of cash provided from net borrowings and (ii) a decrease of $50.8 million in cash distributions to noncontrolling interests. These items were partially offset by (i) $32.0 million less cash received from the issuance of Common Shares and (ii) a decrease in cash of $26.1million from capital contributions from noncontrolling interests. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes: (i) principal and interest obligations under mortgage and other notes, (ii) rents due under non-cancelable operating and capital leases, which includes ground leases at six of our properties and the lease for our corporate office and (iii) construction commitments as of March31, 2017 (in millions): __________ (a) The ground lease expiring during 2078 has an option to purchase the underlying land during 2031. If we do not exercise the option, the rents that will be due are based on future values and as such are not determinable at this time. Accordingly, the above table does not include rents for this lease beyond 2031. (b) In conjunction with the development of our Core Portfolio and Fund properties, we have entered into construction commitments with general contractors. We intend to fund these requirements with existing liquidity. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have the following investments made through joint ventures for the purpose of investing in operating properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. As such, our financial statements reflect our investment and our share of income and loss from, but not the individual assets and liabilities, of these joint ventures. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for a discussion of our unconsolidated investments. The Operating Partnership's pro-rata share of unconsolidated debt related to those investments is as follows (dollars in millions): 46 In addition, we have arranged for the provision of three separate letters of credit to our unconsolidated affiliates in connection with certain leases and investments. As of March31, 2017 there was no outstanding balance under the letters of credit. If the letters of credit were fully drawn, the maximum amount of our exposure would be $11.3 million. One of our unconsolidated affiliates is a party to an interest rate LIBOR swap with a notional value of $20.8 million, which effectively fixes the interest rate at 3.49% and matures in June 2023. Our pro-rata share of the fair value of such affiliate's derivative assets totaled $0.06 million as of March31, 2017 . CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe there have been no material changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our 2016 Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Reference is made to for information about recently issued accounting pronouncements.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 4 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements 5 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 6 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Unaudited) Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 7 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) 8 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 9 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Organization Acadia Realty Trust and subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a fully-integrated equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") focused on the ownership, acquisition, development, and management of retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, supply-constrained, densely-populated metropolitan areas in the United States. All of the Company's assets are held by, and all of its operations are conducted through, Acadia Realty Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") and entities in which the Operating Partnership owns an interest. As of June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company controlled approximately 95% of the Operating Partnership as the sole general partner and is entitled to share, in proportion to its percentage interest, in the cash distributions and profits and losses of the Operating Partnership. The limited partners primarily represent entities or individuals that contributed their interests in certain properties or entities to the Operating Partnership in exchange for common or preferred units of limited partnership interest ("Common OP Units" or "Preferred OP Units") and employees who have been awarded restricted Common OP Units ("LTIP Units") as long-term incentive compensation ( ). Limited partners holding Common OP and LTIP Units are generally entitled to exchange their units on a one-for-one basis for common shares of beneficial interest of the Company ("Common Shares"). This structure is referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT or "UPREIT." As of June30, 2017 , the Company has ownership interests in 118 properties within its core portfolio, which consist of those properties either 100% owned, or partially owned through joint venture interests, by the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through its funds ("Core Portfolio"). The Company also has ownership interests in 65 properties within its opportunity funds, Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund II, LLC ("Fund II"), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund III LLC ("Fund III"), Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund IV LLC ("Fund IV"), and Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund V LLC ("Fund V"). Acadia Strategic Opportunity Fund I, LP ("Fund I," together with Funds II, III, IV, and V, the "Funds") was liquidated in 2015. The 183 Core Portfolio and Fund properties primarily consist of street and urban retail, and suburban shopping centers. In addition, the Company, together with the investors in the Funds, invest in operating companies through Acadia Mervyn Investors I, LLC ("Mervyns I"), Acadia Mervyn Investors II, LLC ("Mervyns II") and Fund II, all on a non-recourse basis. The Company consolidates the Funds as it has (i) the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the Funds' economic performance, (ii) is obligated to absorb the Funds' losses and (iii) has the right to receive benefits from the Funds that could potentially be significant. The Operating Partnership is the sole general partner or managing member of the Funds and Mervyns I and II and earns fees or priority distributions for asset management, property management, construction, development, leasing, and legal services. Cash flows from the Funds and Mervyns I and II are distributed pro-rata to their respective partners and members (including the Operating Partnership) until each receives a certain cumulative return ("Preferred Return") and the return of all capital contributions. Thereafter, remaining cash flow is distributed 20% to the Operating Partnership ("Promote") and 80% to the partners or members (including the Operating Partnership). All transactions between the Funds and the Operating Partnership have been eliminated in consolidation. The following table summarizes the general terms and Operating Partnership's equity interests in the Funds and Mervyns II (dollars in millions): __________ (a) Amount represents the current economic ownership at June30, 2017 , which could differ from the stated legal ownership based upon the cumulative preferred returns of the respective fund. (b) Represents the total for the Funds, including the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling interests' shares. 10 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Basis of Presentation Segments At June30, 2017 , the Company had three reportable operating segments: Core Portfolio, Funds and Structured Financing.The Company's chief operating decision maker may review operational and financial data on a property basis and does not differentiate properties on a geographical basis for purposes of allocating resources or capital.Each property is considered a separate operating segment; however, each property on a stand-alone basis represents less than 10% of revenues, profit or loss, and assets of the combined reported operating segment and meets the majority of the aggregations criteria under the applicable standard. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the Company and its investments in partnerships and limited liability companies in which the Company has control in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 810 "Consolidation" ("ASC Topic 810"). The ownership interests of other investors in these entities are recorded as noncontrolling interests. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in entities for which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence over, but does not have financial or operating control, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Company's share of the earnings (or losses) of these entities are included in consolidated net income. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. Operating results for theinterim periods presentedare not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year. The information furnished in the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflects all adjustments that, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements for the interim periods. Such adjustments consisted of normal recurring items. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 24, 2017 and amended on February 27, 2017. Use of Estimates GAAP requires the Company's management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to the valuation of real estate, depreciable lives, revenue recognition and the collectability of notes receivable and rents receivable. Application of these estimates and assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-09 , Revenue from Contracts with Customers. ASU 2014-09 is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model requiring a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount reflecting the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 does not apply to the Company's lease revenues, but will apply to reimbursed tenant costs. Additionally, this guidance modifies disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, which defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 for all entities by one year, until years beginning in 2018, with early adoption permitted but not before 2017. Entities may adopt ASU 2014-09 using either a full retrospective approach reflecting the application of the standard in each prior reporting period with the option to elect certain practical expedients or a retrospective approach with the cumulative effect recognized at the date of adoption. While the Company is still completing the assessment of the impact of this standard to its consolidated financial statements, management believes the majority of the Company's revenue falls outside of the scope of this guidance.The Company intends to implement the standard retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of application. 11 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 , Leases. ASU 2016-02 outlines a new model for accounting by lessees, whereby their rights and obligations under substantially all leases, existing and new, would be capitalized and recorded on the balance sheet. For lessors, however, the accounting remains largely unchanged from the current model, with the distinction between operating and financing leases retained, but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee model and the new revenue recognition standard discussed above. The new guidance requires that internal leasing costs be expensed as incurred, as opposed to capitalized and deferred. ASU 2016-02 will also require extensive quantitative and qualitative disclosures and is effective beginning after December 15, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact of the new standard and has not yet determined if it will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements; however, the Company capitalized internal leasing costs of $0.5 million and $0.7 million during the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 , Financial Instruments Credit Losses. ASU 2016-13 introduces a new model for estimating credit losses for certain types of financial instruments, including loans receivable, held-to-maturity debt securities, and net investments in direct financing leases, amongst other financial instruments. ASU 2016-13 also modifies the impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities and expands the disclosure requirements regarding an entity's assumptions, models, and methods for estimating the allowance for losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with adoption permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Retrospective adjustments shall be applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings. The adoption of ASU 2016-13 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15 , Statement of Cash Flows Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 provides guidance on certain specific cash flow issues, including, but not limited to, debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination and distributions received from equity method investees. ASU 2016-15 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted and shall be applied retrospectively where practicable. The adoption of ASU 2016-15 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations Clarifying the Definition of a Business. ASU 2017-01 clarifies that to be considered a business, the elements must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output. The new standard illustrates the circumstances under which real estate with in-place leases would be considered a business and provides guidance for the identification of assets and liabilities in purchase accounting. ASU 2017-01 is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact ASU 2017-01 will have on its consolidated financial statements; however, it is expected that the new standard would reduce the number of future real estate acquisitions that will be accounted for as business combinations and, therefore, reduce the amount of acquisition costs that will be expensed. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-03 Accounting Changes and Error Corrections (Topic 250) and Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323). ASU 2017-03 amends certain SEC guidance in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification in response to SEC staff announcements made during 2016 Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") meetings which addressed (i) the additional qualitative disclosures that a registrant is expected to provide when it cannot reasonably estimate the impact that ASUs 2014-09, 2016-02 and 2016-13 will have in applying the guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 11.M and (ii) guidance in ASC 323 related to the amendments made by ASU 2014-01 regarding use of the proportional amortization method in accounting for investments in qualified affordable housing projects (announcement made at the November 17, 2016, EITF meeting). The adoption of ASU 2017-03 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-05, Other Income-Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20): Clarifying the Scope of Asset Derecognition Guidance and Accounting for Partial Sales of Nonfinancial Assets, which amends the guidance on nonfinancial assets in ASC 610-20. The amendments clarify that (i) a financial asset is within the scope of ASC 610-20 if it meets the definition of an in substance nonfinancial asset and may include nonfinancial assets transferred within a legal entity to a counter-party, (ii) an entity should identify each distinct nonfinancial asset or in substance nonfinancial asset promised to a counter-party and de-recognize each asset when a counter-party obtains control of it, and (iii) an entity should allocate consideration to each distinct asset by applying the guidance in ASC 606 on allocating the transaction price to performance obligations. Further, ASU 2017-05 provides guidance on accounting for partial sales of nonfinancial assets. The amendments are effective at the same time as the amendments in ASU 2014-09. The adoption of ASU 2017-05 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting, which clarifies the scope of modification accounting with respect to changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. Modification accounting would not apply if a change to an award does not affect the total current fair value (or other 12 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) applicable measurement), vesting conditions, or the classification of the award. For all entities, ASU 2017-09 is effective prospectively for awards modified in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact ASU 2017-09 will have on its consolidated financial statements. 2. Real Estate The Company's consolidated real estate is comprised of the following (in thousands): 13 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Acquisitions During the six months ended June30, 2017 and the year ended December31, 2016 , the Company acquired the following consolidated retail properties (dollars in thousands): __________ (a) These acquisitions were accounted for as asset acquisitions as the underlying properties did not meet the definition of a business. 14 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) All of the above acquisitions were deemed to be business combinations except 991 Madison Avenue and 1964 Union Street. The Company expensed $0.6 million of acquisition costs for the six months ended June30, 2017 , of which $0.2 million related to the Core Portfolio and $0.4 million related to the Funds and $2.1 million of acquisition costs for the six months ended June 30, 2016, of which $1.9 million related to the Core Portfolio and $0.2 million related to the Funds. Purchase Price Allocations The purchase prices for the business combinations were allocated to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities based on their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price of properties acquired during the six months ended June30, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016 (in thousands): Dispositions There were no dispositions of consolidated properties during the six months ended June 30, 2017. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company disposed of the following consolidated properties (in thousands): 15 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The aggregate rental revenue, expenses and pre-tax income reported within continuing operations for the aforementioned consolidated properties that were sold during the year ended December31, 2016 were as follows (in thousands): Properties Held For Sale At June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the Company had one property in Fund II classified as held-for-sale with net assets of $21.5 million and subject to a mortgage of $25.5 million , which will be repaid at closing. In addition, at June30, 2017 , the Company had one property in Fund III classified as held-for-sale with net assets of $13.2 million and subject to a mortgage of $12.0 million , which was paid off at closing on July 6, 2017 ( ). The properties held for sale had aggregate net (loss) income of $(0.2) million , and $0.2 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Pro Forma Financial Information The following unaudited pro forma consolidated operating data is presented for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , as if the acquisitions of the properties acquired during that period were completed on January 1, 2016 and as if the acquisition of the properties acquired during the six months ended June 30, 2016 were completed on January 1, 2015. The related acquisition expenses of $0.9 million and $2.1 million reported during the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively have been reflected as pro forma charges at January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2015, respectively. The unaudited supplemental pro forma operating data is not necessarily indicative of what the actual results of operations of the Company would have been, assuming the transactions had been completed as set forth above, nor do they purport to represent the Company's results of operations for future periods. Real Estate Under Development and Construction in Progress Real estate under development represents the Company's consolidated properties that have not yet been placed into service while undergoing substantial development or construction. At December31, 2016 , the Company had one Core property, two properties in Fund II, three properties in Fund III, and eight properties in Fund IV classified as real estate under development. At June30, 2017 , the Company had two Core properties, one property in Fund II, two properties in Fund III and eight properties in Fund IV classified as real estate under development. At December31, 2016 accumulated costs aggregated $543.5 million . During the first half of 2017, the Company capitalized $0.3 million of additional costs in the Core portfolio and $97.1 million of additional costs in the Fund portfolio, placed substantially all of the City Point project for $432.6 million into service, and reclassified real estate with a carrying value of $0.7 million into real estate under development, resulting in a balance of $209.0 million at June30, 2017 . Depreciation and amortization expense for the six months ended June 30, 2017 includes $2.0 million of accelerated depreciation related to a building under development that was demolished. Construction in progress pertains to construction activity at the Company's operating properties which are in service and continue to operate during the construction period. 16 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 3. Notes Receivable, Net The Company's notes receivable, net were collateralized either by the underlying properties or the borrower's ownership interest in the entities that own the properties, and were as follows (dollars in thousands): During the six months ended June30, 2017 , the Company: recovered the full value of a $12.0 million Core note receivable, which was previously in default, plus accrued interest and fees aggregating $16.8 million as further described below; funded an additional $10.0 million on an existing Core note receivable, which had a total commitment of $20.0 million ; entered into an agreement to extend the maturity of a $15.0 million Core note receivable to June1, 2018 ; increased the balance of a Fund II note receivable by the interest accrued of $0.4 million ; advanced an additional $0.3 million on a Fund III note receivable; and During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company: issued one Core note receivable and three Fund IV notes receivable aggregating $47.5 million with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 9.8% , which were collateralized by four mixed-use real estate properties; received total collections of $42.8 million , including full repayment of five notes issued in prior periods aggregating $29.6 million ; and At December 31, 2016, one of the Core notes receivable in the amount of $12.0 million was in default; however, no principal reserve was established because the estimated fair value of the real estate collateral exceeded the estimated carrying value of the note. In February 2017, there was an auction pursuant to an Order of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York for the property which is collateral for this note. The winning bid was in excess of the Company's carrying value and accrued interest. The sale of this property was approved by Order of the Bankruptcy Court confirming the Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization of the note issuer and closed during the second quarter of 2017.In connection with this sale, the Company recovered its full carrying value of principal and interest and recognized additional interest income and expense reimbursements of $2.2 million in the first quarter of 2017 and $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2017 upon settlement of this transaction. The Company monitors the credit quality of its notes receivable on an ongoing basis and considers indicators of credit quality such as loan payment activity, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, the seniority of the Company's loan in relation to other debt secured by the collateral and the prospects of the borrower. Earnings from these notes and mortgages receivable are reported within the Company's Structured Financing segment ( ). 17 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 4. Investments In and Advances to Unconsolidated Affiliates The Company accounts for its investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates primarily under the equity method of accounting as it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not have financial or operating control over the investment, which is maintained by each of the unaffiliated partners who co-invest with the Company. The Company's investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates consist of the following (dollars in thousands): __________ (a) Represents a tenancy-in-common interest. (b) During May 2017, as discussed below, the Company increased its ownership in Brandywine Market Square, which was formerly included within the Brandywine Portfolio. (c) Distributions have exceeded the Company's non-recourse investment, therefore the carrying value is zero. (d) Represents a variable interest entity. (e) The Company is entitled to a 15% return on its cumulative capital contribution which was $15.1 million and $14.5 million at June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. In addition the Company is entitled to a 9% preferred return on a portion of its equity, which was $46.8 million and $45.4 million at June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. (f) Represents deferred fees. (h) Distributions have exceeded the Company's investment; however, the Company recognizes a liability balance as it may be required to fund future obligations of the entity. 18 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Core Portfolio The Company owns a 49% interest in a 311,000 square foot shopping center located in White Plains, New York ("Crossroads"), a 50% interest in a 28,000 square foot retail portfolio located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. (the "Georgetown Portfolio"), an 88.43% tenancy-in-common interest in an 87,000 square foot retail property located in Chicago, Illinois ("840 N. Michigan"), and a 49% noncontrolling interest in an approximately 123,000 square foot retail property located in Manhattan, New York ("Gotham Plaza"). On January 4, 2017, an entity in which the Company owns a 20% noncontrolling interest (the "Renaissance Portfolio"), acquired a 6,200 square foot property in Alexandria, Virginia referred to as ("907 King Street") for $3.0 million . The Renaissance Portfolio is now a 213,000 square-foot portfolio of 18 mixed-use properties, 16 of which are located in Georgetown, Washington D.C. and two of which are located in Alexandria, Virginia. Brandywine Portfolio and Brandywine Market Square The Company owns an interest in an approximately one million square foot retail portfolio (the "Brandywine Portfolio" joint venture) located in Wilmington, Delaware, which includes a property referred to as "Brandywine Market Square." Prior to the second quarter of 2016, the Company had a controlling interest in the Brandywine Portfolio, and it was therefore consolidated within the Company's financial statements. During April 2016, the arrangement with the partners of the Brandywine Portfolio was modified to change the legal ownership from a partnership to a tenancy-in-common interest, as well as to provide certain participating rights to the outside partners. As a result of these modifications, the Company de-consolidated the Brandywine Portfolio and accounts for its interest under the equity method of accounting effective May 1, 2016. Furthermore, as the owners of the Brandywine Portfolio had consistent ownership interests before and after the modification and the underlying net assets are unchanged, the Company has reflected the change from consolidation to equity method based upon its historical cost. The Brandywine Portfolio and Brandywine Market Square ventures do not include the property held by Brandywine Holdings, Inc., an entity consolidated by the Company. Additionally, in April 2016, the Company repaid the outstanding balance of $140.0 million of non-recourse debt collateralized by the Brandywine Portfolio and provided a note receivable collateralized by the partners' tenancy-in-common interest in the Brandywine Portfolio for their proportionate share of the repayment. On May 1, 2017, the Company exchanged $16.0 million of the $153.4 million note receivable ( ) plus accrued interest of $0.3 million for one of the partner's 38.89% tenancy-in-common interests in Brandywine Market Square. The Company already had a 22.22% interest in Brandywine Market Square and continues to apply the equity method of accounting for its aggregate 61.11% noncontrolling interest in Brandywine Market Square and its 22.22% interest in the rest of the Brandywine Portfolio. The incremental investment in Brandywine Market Square was recorded at $16.6 million and the excess of this amount over the venture's book value associated with this interest, or $9.8 million , will be amortized over the remaining depreciable lives of the venture's assets. Fund Investments Fund III Other Portfolio includes the Company's investment in Arundel Plaza through its date of sale in February 2017. Fund IV Other Portfolio includes the Company's investment in Promenade at Manassas and Eden Square as well as 2819 Kennedy Boulevard and 1701 Belmont Avenue through their dates of sale. Self-Storage Management, a Fund III investment, was determined to be a variable interest entity. Management has evaluated the applicability of ASC Topic 810 to this joint venture and determined that the Company is not the primary beneficiary and, therefore, consolidation of this venture is not required. On January 31, 2017, Fund IV completed the disposition of 2819 Kennedy Boulevard, for $19.0 million less $8.4 million debt repayment for net proceeds of $10.6 million , resulting in a gain on disposition of $6.3 million at the property level, of which the Fund's share was $6.2 million , which is included in equity earnings and gains from unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated financial statements. The Operating Partnership's proportionate share of the gain was $1.4 million , net of noncontrolling interests. On February 15, 2017, Fund III completed the disposition of Arundel Plaza, for $28.8 million less $10.0 million debt repayments for net proceeds of $18.8 million , resulting in a gain on disposition of $8.2 million at the property level, of which the Fund's share was $5.3 million , which is included in equity earnings and gains from unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated financial statements. The Operating Partnership's proportionate share of the gain was $1.3 million , net of noncontrolling interests. 19 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) On June 30, 2017, Fund IV completed the disposition of 1701 Belmont Avenue, for $5.6 million less $2.9 million debt repayments for net proceeds of $2.7 million , resulting in a gain on disposition of $3.3 million at the property level, of which the Fund's share was $3.3 million , which is included in equity earnings and gains from unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated financial statements. The Operating Partnership's proportionate share of the gain was $0.8 million , net of noncontrolling interests. On January 28, 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of a 65% interest in Cortlandt Town Center for $107.3 million resulting in a gain of $65.4 million and the deconsolidation of its remaining interest ( ). On December 21, 2016, Fund III completed the disposition of its remaining 35% interest in Cortlandt Town Center for $57.8 million less $32.6 million debt repayment for a net sales price of $25.2 million resulting in a gain on sale of $36.0 million , of which the Operating Partnership's share was $8.8 million . Fees from Unconsolidated Affiliates The Company earned property management, construction, development, legal and leasing fees from its investments in unconsolidated partnerships totaling $0.3 million and $0.4 million for each of the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $0.6 million and $0.6 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, which is included in other revenues in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the Company paid to certain unaffiliated partners of its joint ventures, $0.4 million and $0.6 million during the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $0.9 million and $1.2 million during the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively for leasing commissions, development, management, construction and overhead fees. Summarized Financial Information of Unconsolidated Affiliates The following combined and condensed Balance Sheets and Statements of Income, in each period, summarize the financial information of the Company's investments in unconsolidated affiliates (in thousands): 20 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 21 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 5. Other Assets, Net and Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities Other assets, net and accounts payable and other liabilities are comprised of the following for the periods presented: 22 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 6. Lease Intangibles Upon acquisitions of real estate accounted for as business combinations, the Company assesses the fair value of acquired assets (including land, buildings and improvements, and identified intangibles such as above- and below-market leases, including below- market options and acquired in-place leases) and assumed liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 805. The lease intangibles are amortized over the remaining terms of the respective leases, including option periods where applicable. Intangible assets and liabilities are summarized as follows (in thousands): During the six months ended June30, 2017 , the Company acquired in-place lease intangible assets of $17.7 million , above-market rents of $0.7 million , below-market rents of $4.1 million , and an above-market ground lease of $0.7 million with weighted-average useful lives of 4.2 , 3.8 , 11.4 , and 11.5 years, respectively. Amortization of in-place lease intangible assets is recorded in depreciation and amortization expense and amortization of above-market rent and below-market rent is recorded as a reduction to and increase to rental income, respectively, in the consolidated statements of income. Amortization of above-market ground leases are recorded as a reduction to rent expense in the consolidated statements of income. The scheduled amortization of acquired lease intangible assets and assumed liabilities as of June30, 2017 is as follows (in thousands): 23 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 7. Debt A summary of the Company's consolidated indebtedness is as follows (dollars in thousands): __________ (a) At June30, 2017 , the stated rates ranged from LIBOR + 1.08% to LIBOR + 1.90% for Core variable-rate debt; LIBOR + .79% to LIBOR + 2.50% for Fund II variable-rate debt; PRIME + 0.50% to LIBOR + 4.65% for Fund III variable-rate debt; LIBOR + 1.70% to LIBOR + 3.95% for Fund IV variable-rate debt and LIBOR + 1.30% to LIBOR + 1.60% for Core variable-rate unsecured notes. (b) Includes $430,825 and $365,343 , respectively, of variable-rate debt that has been fixed with interest rate swap agreements as of the periods presented. 24 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Mortgages Payable During 2017, the Company obtained nine new non-recourse mortgages totaling $130.0 million with a weighted-average interest rate of 3.38% collateralized by nine properties, which mature between February 14, 2020 and April 1, 2022. The Company entered into interest rate swap contracts to effectively fix the interest rates of seven of these obligations with a notional value of $67.3 million at a weighted-average rate of 1.92% . During 2017, the Company repaid two mortgages in full, which had a total balance of $28.1 million and a weighted-average interest rate of 5.42% , and made scheduled principal payments of $1.9 million . At June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company's mortgages were collateralized by 47 and 39 properties, respectively, and the related tenant leases. Certain loans are cross-collateralized and contain cross-default provisions. The loan agreements contain customary representations, covenants and events of default. Certain loan agreements require the Company to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of debt service coverage and leverage ratios. A portion of the Company's variable-rate mortgage debt has been effectively fixed through certain cash flow hedge transactions ( ). The mortgage loan related to Brandywine Holdings in the Company's Core Portfolio amounted to $26.3 million and was in default at June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. This loan bears interest at 5.99% , excluding default interest of 5% , and is collateralized by a property, in which the Company holds a 22% controlling interest. In April 2017, the lender on this mortgage initiated a lawsuit against the Company for the full balance of the principal, accrued interest as well as penalties and fees aggregating approximately $31.0 million . The Company's management believes that the mortgage is not recourse to the Company and that the suit is without merit. In addition, at June30, 2017 , a mortgage loan in the amount of $14.3 million and collateralized by a Fund II property, was in default because its liquidity covenant had been breached. Unsecured Notes Payable The Company completed the following transactions related to its unsecured notes payable during the six months ended June30, 2017 : The Company reduced its maximum commitment available on the Fund IV subscription line of credit from $100.0 million to $21.5 million . Furthermore, upon repayment of $74.1 million , net of $10.0 million in draws, the Company was in compliance with its liquidity covenant at June30, 2017 which was not in compliance at December 31, 2016. The balance was $20.4 million at June30, 2017 and $94.5 million at December 31, 2016. Total available credit at June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was $0.0 and $55.5 million respectively on this line. During the quarter, the Company obtained a new Fund V subscription line in the amount of $150.0 million . Fund V drew down $45.4 million and repaid $1.0 million . The total outstanding balance was $44.4 million as of June 30, 2017. Total available credit at June 30, 2017 was $105.6 million . Unsecured Line of Credit At June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 the Company had a total of $114.7 million and $147.5 million , respectively available under its unsecured line of credit. The Company completed the following transaction related to its unsecured line of credit during the six months ended June30, 2017 : In connection with the repayment of a secured mortgage note payable during the second quarter of 2017, the Company drew down a total of $24.0 million on the Core unsecured line of credit. The total outstanding balance was $24.0 million as of June30, 2017 . 25 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Scheduled Debt Principal Payments The scheduled principal repayments of the Company's consolidated indebtedness, as of June30, 2017 are as follows (in thousands): See for information about liabilities of the Company's unconsolidated affiliates. 8. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements The fair value of an asset is defined as the exit price, which is the amount that would either be received when an asset is sold or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers are: Level 1, for which quoted market prices for identical instruments are available in active markets, such as money market funds, equity securities, and U.S. Treasury securities; Level 2, for which there are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the instrument, such as certain derivative instruments including interest rate caps and interest rate swaps; and Level 3, for financial instruments or other assets/liabilities that do not fall into Level 1 or Level 2 and for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring the Company to develop its own assumptions. Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The methods and assumptions described below were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument. For significant Level 3 items, the Company has also provided the unobservable inputs along with their weighted-average ranges. Money Market Funds - The Company has money market funds, which are included in Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated financial statements, are comprised of government securities and/or U.S. Treasury bills. These funds were classified as Level 1 as we used quoted prices from active markets to determine their fair values. Derivative Assets - The Company has derivative assets, which are included in Other assets, net in the consolidated financial statements, are comprised of interest rate swaps. The interest rate swaps were measured at fair value using readily observable market inputs, such as quotations on interest rates, and were classified as Level 2 as these instruments are custom, over-the-counter contracts with various bank counterparties that are not traded in an active market. See "Derivative Financial Instruments," below. Derivative Liabilities - The Company has derivative liabilities, which are included in Accounts payable and other liabilities in the consolidated financial statements, are comprised of interest rate swaps. These derivative instruments were measured at fair value using readily observable market inputs, such as quotations on interest rates, and were classified as Level2 because they are custom, over-the-counter contracts with various bank counterparties that are not traded in an active market. See "Derivative Financial Instruments," below. The Company did not have any transfers into or out of Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 measurements during the six months ended June30, 2017 or2016. 26 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The following table presents the Company's fair value hierarchy for those assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands): In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company had the following interest rate swaps for the periods presented (dollars in thousands): 27 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) All of the Company's derivative instruments have been designated as cash flow hedges and hedge the future cash outflows on variable rate mortgage debt ( ). Risk Management Objective of Using Derivatives The Company is exposed to certain risks arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity and credit risk, primarily by managing the amount, sources and duration of its debt funding and, from time to time, through the use of derivative financial instruments.The Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the values of which are determined by interest rates.The Company's derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing and duration of the Company's known or expected cash receipts and its known or expected cash payments principally related to the Company's investments and borrowings. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to the Swaps if the derivative position has a positive balance.The Company believes it mitigates its credit risk by entering into Swaps with major financial institutions.The Company continually monitors and actively manages interest costs on its variable-rate debt portfolio and may enter into additional interest rate swap positions or other derivative interest rate instruments based on market conditions.The Company has not entered, and does not plan to enter, into any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The following table presents the location in the financial statements of the income (losses) recognized related to the Company's cash flow hedges (in thousands): Credit Risk-Related Contingent Features The Company has agreements with each of its Swap counterparties that contain a provision whereby if the Company defaults on certain of its unsecured indebtedness the Company could also be declared in default on its swaps, resulting in an acceleration of payment under the swaps. Other Financial Instruments The Company's other financial instruments had the following carrying values and fair values as of the dates shown (dollars in thousands): (a) The Company determined the estimated fair value of these financial instruments using a discounted cash flow model with rates that take into account the credit of the borrower or tenant, where applicable, and interest rate risk. The Company 28 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) also considered the value of the underlying collateral, taking into account the quality of the collateral, the credit quality of the borrower, the time until maturity and the current market interest rate environment. (b) The Company determined the estimated fair value of the unsecured notes payable and unsecured line of credit using quoted market prices in an open market with limited trading volume where available. In cases where there was no trading volume, the Company determined the estimated fair value using a discounted cash flow model using a rate that reflects the average yield of similar market participants. The Company's cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and certain financial instruments included in other assets and other liabilities had fair values that approximated their carrying values at June30, 2017 . 9. Commitments and Contingencies Commitments and Guaranties In conjunction with the development and expansion of various properties, the Company has entered into agreements with general contractors for the construction or development of properties aggregating approximately $103.7 million and $85.4 million as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. At each of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, the Company had letters of credit outstanding of $11.3 million .The Company has not recorded any obligation associated with these letters of credit.The majority of the letters of credit are collateral for existing indebtedness and other obligations of the Company. In connection with certain of the Company's unconsolidated joint ventures ( ), the Company agreed to fund amounts due to the joint ventures' lenders, under certain circumstances, if such amounts are not paid by the joint venture based on the Company's pro-rata share of such amount, aggregating $162.3 million and $165.7 million at June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. 10. Shareholders' Equity, Noncontrolling Interests and Other Comprehensive Income Common Shares The Company completed the following transactions in its common shares during the six months ended June30, 2017 : The Company withheld 4,314 Restricted Shares to pay the employees' statutory minimum income taxes due on the value of the portion of their Restricted Shares that vested. At the May 10 Shareholder Meeting, Shareholders approved an amendment to the Company's Declaration of Trust to increase the authorized share capital of the Company from 100 million shares of beneficial interest to 200 million shares which will become effective on July 24, 2017. The Company completed the following transactions in its common shares during the year ended December 31, 2016: The Company issued 4,500,000 Common Shares under its at-the-market ("ATM") equity programs, generating gross proceeds of $157.6 million and net proceeds of $155.7 million . The Company has established a new ATM equity program, effective July 2016, with an additional aggregate offering amount of up to $250.0 million of gross proceeds from the sale of Common Shares, replacing its $200.0 million program that was launched in 2014. As of December 31, 2016 and June30, 2017 , there was $218.0 million remaining under this $250.0 million program. The Company entered into a forward sale agreement to issue 3,600,000 Common Shares for gross proceeds of $126.8 million and net proceeds of $124.5 million . As of December 31, 2016,these shares have been physically settled. The Company issued 4,830,000 Common Shares in a public offering, generating gross proceeds of $175.2 million and net proceeds of $172.1 million . The Company withheld 3,152 Restricted Shares to pay the employees' statutory minimum income taxes due on the value of the portion of their Restricted Shares that vested. 29 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Share Repurchases The Company has a share repurchase program that authorizes management, at its discretion, to repurchase up to $20.0 million of its outstanding Common Shares. The program may be discontinued or extended at any time. There were no Common Shares repurchased by the Company during the six months ended June30, 2017 or the year ended December 31, 2016. Under this program the Company has repurchased 2.1 million Common Shares, none of which were repurchased after December 2001. As of June30, 2017 , management may repurchase up to approximately $7.5 million of the Company's outstanding Common Shares under this program. Dividends and Distributions On May 10, 2017, the Board of Trustees declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per Common Share, which was paid on July 14, 2017 to holders of record as of June30, 2017 . On November 8, 2016, the Board of Trustees declared an increase of $0.01 to the regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 to $0.26 per Common Share, which was paid on January 13, 2017 to holders of record as of December 30, 2016. In addition, on November 8, 2016, the Board of Trustees declared a special cash dividend of $0.15 per Common Share with the same record and payment date as the regular quarterly dividend. The special dividend is a result of the taxable capital gains for 2016 arising from property dispositions within the Funds. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income The following table sets forth the activity in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): 30 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Noncontrolling Interests The following table summarizes the change in the noncontrolling interests for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (dollars in thousands): __________ (b) Noncontrolling interests in partially-owned affiliates comprise third-party interests in Funds II, III, IV and V, and Mervyns I and II, and six other subsidiaries. (c) During the first quarter of 2016, the Company acquired an additional 8.3% interest in Fund II from a limited partner for $18.4 million , giving the Company an aggregate 28.33% interest. Amount in the table above represents the book value of this transaction. 31 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (d) Adjustment reflects the difference between the fair value of the consideration received or paid and the book value of the Common Shares, Common OP Units, Preferred OP Units, and LTIP Units involving changes in ownership (the "Rebalancing"). Preferred OP Units There were no issuances of Preferred OP Units and 1,250 Series C Preferred OP Units were exchanged for common shares of the Company during the six months ended June30, 2017 . In 1999 the Operating Partnership issued 1,580 SeriesA Preferred OP Units in connection with the acquisition of a property, which have a stated value of $1,000 per unit, and are entitled to a preferred quarterly distribution of the greater of (i) $22.50 ( 9% annually) per SeriesA Preferred OP Unit or (ii)the quarterly distribution attributable to a SeriesA Preferred OP Unit if such unit was converted into a Common OP Unit. Through December 31, 2016, 1,392 SeriesA Preferred OP Units were converted into 185,600 Common OP Units and then into Common Shares. The 188 remaining SeriesA Preferred OP Units are currently convertible into Common OP Units based on the stated value divided by $7.50 . Either the Company or the holders can currently call for the conversion of the SeriesA Preferred OP Units at the lesser of $7.50 or the market price of the Common Shares as of the conversion date. During the first quarter of 2016, the Operating Partnership issued 442,478 Common OP Units and 141,593 Series C Preferred OP Units to a third party to acquire Gotham Plaza ( ). The Series C Preferred OP Units have a value of $100.00 per unit and are entitled to a preferred quarterly distribution of $0.9375 per unit and are convertible into Common OP Units at a rate based on the share price at the time of conversion. If the share price is below $28.80 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Unit will be convertible into 3.4722 Common OP Units. If the share price is between $28.80 and $35.20 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Units will be convertible a number of Common OP Units equal to $100.00 divided by the closing share price. If the share price is above $35.20 on the conversion date, each Series C Preferred OP Units will be convertible into 2.8409 Common OP Units. The Series C Preferred OP Units have a mandatory conversion date of December 31, 2025, at which time all units that have not been converted will automatically be converted into Common OP Units based on the same calculations. 11. Leases Operating Leases The Company is engaged in the operation of shopping centers and other retail properties that are either owned or, with respect to certain shopping centers, operated under long-term ground leases that expire at various dates through June 20, 2066, with renewal options.Space in the shopping centers is leased to tenants pursuant to agreements that provide for terms ranging generally from one month to ninety nine years and generally provide for additional rents based on certain operating expenses as well as tenants' sales volumes. The Company leases land at seven of its shopping centers, which are accounted for as operating leases and generally provide the Company with renewal options. Ground rent expense was $1.8 million and $1.0 million (including capitalized ground rent at properties under development of $0.1 million and $0.3 million ) for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The leases terminate at various dates between 2020 and 2066. These leases provide the Company with options to renew for additional terms aggregating from 25 to 71 years. The Company also leases space for its corporate office. Office rent expense under this lease was $0.4 million and $0.2 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Capital Lease During 2016, the Company entered into a 49 -year master lease at 991 Madison Avenue, which is accounted for as a capital lease. During the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, lease expense totaling $1.5 million and $0.7 million , respectively were made under this lease. The lease was initially valued at $76.6 million, which represents the total discounted payments to be made under the lease. The property under the capital lease is included in . 32 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Lease Obligations The scheduled future minimum (i) rental revenues from rental properties under the terms of all non-cancelable tenant leases, assuming no new or renegotiated leases or option extensions for such premises and (ii) rental payments under the terms of all non-cancelable operating and capital leases in which the Company is the lessee, principally for office space and ground leases, as of June30, 2017 , are summarized as follows (in thousands): A ground lease expiring during 2078 provides the Company with an option to purchase the underlying land during 2031. If the Company does not exercise the option, the rents that will be due are based on future values and as such are not determinable at this time. Accordingly, the above table does not include rents for this lease beyond 2031. During the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, no single tenant collectively comprised more than 10% of the Company's consolidated total revenues. 12. Segment Reporting The Company has three reportable segments: Core Portfolio, Funds and Structured Financing. The Company's Core Portfolio consists primarily of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas with a long-term investment horizon. The Company's Funds hold primarily retail real estate in which the Company co-invests with high-quality institutional investors. The Company's Structured Financing segment consists of earnings and expenses related to notes and mortgages receivable which are held within the Core Portfolio or the Funds ( ). Fees earned by the Company as the general partner or managing member of the Funds are eliminated in the Company's consolidated financial statements and are not presented in the Company's segments. During 2016, the Company revised how it allocates general and administrative and income tax expenses among its segments to reflect all such expenses as unallocated corporate expenses. The presentation of the 2016 interim periods have been revised to reflect this change. 33 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The following tables set forth certain segment information for the Company (in thousands): 34 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 13. Share Incentive and Other Compensation Share Incentive Plan The Second Amended and Restated 2006 Incentive Plan (the "Share Incentive Plan") authorizes the Company to issue options, Restricted Shares, LTIP Units and other securities (collectively "Awards") to, among others, the Company's officers, trustees and employees. At June30, 2017 total of 1,794,293 shares remained available to be issued under this plan. 35 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Restricted Shares and LTIP Units During the six months ended June30, 2017 , the Company issued 292,255 LTIP Units and 7,628 Restricted Share Units to employees of the Company pursuant to the Share Incentive Plan. These awards were measured at their fair value on the grant date, which was established as the market price of the Company's Common Shares as of the close of trading on the day preceding the grant date. The total value of the above Restricted Share Units and LTIP Units as of the grant date was $9.8 million , of which $2.2 million was recognized as compensation expense in 2016, and $7.6 million will be recognized as compensation expense over the remaining vesting period. Total long-term incentive compensation expense, including the expense related to the Share Incentive Plan, was $4.5 million and $3.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively and is recorded in General and Administrative on the Consolidated Statements of Income. In addition, members of the Board of Trustees (the "Board") have been issued units under the Share Incentive Plan. During 2017, the Company issued 11,814 Restricted Shares and 11,105 LTIP Units to Trustees of the Company in connection with Trustee fees. Vesting with respect to 3,864 of the Restricted Shares and 5,805 of the LTIP Units will be on the first anniversary of the date of issuance and 7,950 of the Restricted Shares and 5,300 of the LTIP Units vest over three years with 33% vesting on each of the next three anniversaries of the issuance date. The Restricted Shares do not carry voting rights or other rights of Common Shares until vesting and may not be transferred, assigned or pledged until the recipients have a vested non-forfeitable right to such shares. Dividends are not paid currently on unvested Restricted Shares, but are paid cumulatively from the issuance date through the applicable vesting date of such Restricted Shares. Total trustee fee expense, included the expense related to the Share Incentive Plan, was $0.3 million for each of the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016. In 2009, the Company adopted the Long Term Investment Alignment Program (the "Program") pursuant to which the Company may grant awards to employees, entitling them to receive up to 25% of any potential future payments of Promote to the Operating Partnership from Funds III and IV. The Company has granted such awards to employees representing 25% of the potential Promote payments from Fund III to the Operating Partnership and 14.4% of the potential Promote payments from Fund IV to the Operating Partnership. Payments to senior executives under the Program require further Board approval at the time any potential payments are due pursuant to these grants. Compensation relating to these awards will be recognized in each reporting period in which Board approval is granted. As payments to other employees are not subject to further Board approval, compensation relating to these awards will be recorded based on the estimated fair value at each reporting period in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation. The awards in connection with Fund IV were determined to have no intrinsic value as of June30, 2017 . Compensation expense of $0.4 million and $1.5 million was recognized for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, related to the Program in connection with Fund III. A summary of the status of the Company's unvested Restricted Shares and LTIP Units is presented below: 36 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) The weighted-average grant date fair value for Restricted Shares and LTIP Units granted for the six months ended June30, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016 were $32.28 and $34.50 , respectively. As of June30, 2017 , there was $18.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the Share Incentive Plan. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years. The total fair value of Restricted Shares that vested for each of the six months ended June30, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016, was $0.7 million . The total fair value of LTIP Units that vested during the six months ended June30, 2017 and the year ended December 31, 2016, was $7.4 million and $13.6 million , respectively. Other Plans On a combined basis, the Company incurred a total of $0.3 million related to the following employee benefit plans for each of the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively: Employee Share Purchase Plan The Acadia Realty Trust Employee Share Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan"), allows eligible employees of the Company to purchase Common Shares through payroll deductions. The Purchase Plan provides for employees to purchase Common Shares on a quarterly basis at a 15% discount to the closing price of the Company's Common Shares on either the first day or the last day of the quarter, whichever is lower. A participant may not purchase more the $25,000 in Common Shares per year. Compensation expense will be recognized by the Company to the extent of the above discount to the closing price of the Common Shares with respect to the applicable quarter. During the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, a total of 2,407 and 2,334 Common Shares, respectively, were purchased by employees under the Purchase Plan. Deferred Share Plan During May of 2006, the Company adopted a Trustee Deferral and Distribution Election ("Trustee Deferral Plan"), under which the participating Trustees earn deferred compensation. Employee 401(k) Plan The Company maintains a 401(k) plan for employees under which the Company currently matches 50% of a plan participant's contribution up to 6% of the employee's annual salary. A plan participant may contribute up to a maximum of 15% of their compensation, up to $18,000 , for the year ended December31, 2017. 14. Earnings Per Common Share Basic earnings per Common Share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Common Shareholders by the weighted average Common Shares outstanding. During the periods presented, the Company had unvested LTIP Units which provide for non-forfeitable rights to dividend equivalent payments. Accordingly, these unvested LTIP Units are considered participating securities and are included in the computation of basic earnings per Common Share pursuant to the two-class method. Diluted earnings per Common Share reflects the potential dilution of the conversion of obligations and the assumed exercises of securities including the effects of restricted share units ("Restricted Share Units") and share option awards issued under the Company's Share Incentive Plans ( ). The effect of such shares is excluded from the calculation of earnings per share when anti-dilutive as indicated in the table below. The effect of the conversion of Common OP Units is not reflected in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share, as they are exchangeable for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis. The income allocable to such units is allocated on this same basis and reflected as noncontrolling interests in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As such, the assumed conversion of these units would have no net impact on the determination of diluted earnings per share. 37 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 15. Subsequent Events Financing and Hedging On July 5, the Company repaid a Core mortgage in the amount of $28.6 million . On July 7, the Company executed a ten -year interest rate swap for a notional amount of $25.0 million as a hedge against increases in future interest rates on its previously unhedged variable-rate Core borrowings. Dispositions On July 6, Fund III sold its consolidated New Hyde Park Shopping Center for $22.1 million . As this sale was probable of occurring at June 30, the property was classified as held for sale at that date ( ). On July 14, Fund II entered into a purchase and sale agreement for the sale of its City Point Tower I property for $96.0 million . As the carrying amount less estimated costs to sell was $92.0 million at June 30, 2017, the Company anticipates recording an impairment charge of approximately $4.0 million during the third quarter of 2017. Acquisition On July 27, Fund V acquired a retail property for $44.0 million . It is not practicable to disclose the preliminary purchase price allocation or consolidated pro forma financial information for this transaction given the short period of time between the acquisition dates and the filing of this Report. 38 ACADIA REALTY TRUST AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Other In July 2017, the Company received a $2.3 million cash distribution from its Albertson's investment ( ). 39 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OVERVIEW As of June30, 2017 , we owned 183 properties, which we own or have an ownership interest in, within our Core Portfolio or Funds. Our Core Portfolio consists of those properties either 100% owned, or partially owned through joint venture interests by the Operating Partnership, or subsidiaries thereof, not including those properties owned through our Funds. These properties primarily consist of street and urban retail, and dense suburban shopping centers. The following sets forth a summary of our wholly-owned and partially-owned retail properties and their physical occupancies at June30, 2017 : The majority of our operating income is derived from rental revenues from operating properties, including expense recoveries from tenants, offset by operating and overhead expenses. As our RCP Venture invests in operating companies, we consider these investments to be private-equity style, as opposed to real estate, investments. Since these are not traditional investments in operating rental real estate but investments in operating businesses, the Operating Partnership typically invests in these through a taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS"). Our primary business objective is to acquire and manage commercial retail properties that will provide cash for distributions to shareholders while also creating the potential for capital appreciation to enhance investor returns. We focus on the following fundamentals to achieve this objective: Own and operate a Core Portfolio of high-quality retail properties located primarily in high-barrier-to-entry, densely-populated metropolitan areas and create value through accretive development and re-tenanting activities coupled with the acquisition of high-quality assets that have the long-term potential to outperform the asset class as part of our Core asset recycling and acquisition initiative. Generate additional external growth through an opportunistic yet disciplined acquisition program within our Funds. We target transactions with high inherent opportunity for the creation of additional value through: value-add investments in street retail properties, located in established and "next generation" submarkets, with re-tenanting or repositioning opportunities, opportunistic acquisitions of well-located real-estate anchored by distressed retailers, and other opportunistic acquisitions which may include high-yield acquisitions and purchases of distressed debt. 40 Some of these investments historically have also included, and may in the future include, joint ventures with private equity investors for the purpose of making investments in operating retailers with significant embedded value in their real estate assets. Maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet through conservative financial practices while ensuring access to sufficient capital to fund future growth. SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS DURING FIRST HALF 2017 Investments During the six months ended June30, 2017 ("First Half 2017"), within our Core and Fund portfolios we invested in four properties as follows ( ): On June 5, 2017, Fund V acquired a consolidated suburban shopping center in Santa Fe, New Mexico for $35.2 million referred to as "Plaza Santa Fe." On March 13, 2017 Fund IV acquired a consolidated shopping center for $35.4 million referred to as "Lincoln Place." Dispositions of Real Estate During the First Half 2017, within our Funds we sold three properties for an aggregate sales price of $53.4 million and our proportionate share of the aggregate gains was $6.0 million as follows ( ): On June 30, 2017, Fund IV sold an unconsolidated property, 1701 Belmont Avenue, for $5.6 million for which the gain was $3.3 million of which our pro-rata share was $0.8 million and was recognized within equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated statement of income. On February 15, 2017, Fund III sold an unconsolidated property, Arundel Plaza, for $28.8 million for which the gain was $8.2 million of which our pro-rata share was $1.3 million and was recognized within equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated statement of income. On January 31, 2017, Fund IV sold an unconsolidated property, 2819 Kennedy Boulevard, for $19.0 million, for which the gain was $6.3 million of which our pro-rata share was $1.4 million and was recognized within equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in the consolidated statement of income. Financings During the First Half 2017, we obtained aggregate financing of $280.0 million including ( ): We obtained an aggregate of $130.0 million in financings with nine new non-recourse mortgages, primarily for Fund IV. On May 4, 2017, Fund V closed on a new $150.0 million subscription line. We also repaid two mortgages aggregating $28.1 million. Structured Financing During the First Half 2017 ( ): We received full settlement of a $12.0 million note receivable plus $4.8 million interest and fees thereon. The note had previously been in default and was settled in bankruptcy proceedings during the second quarter. We funded an additional $10.0 million on an existing note receivable. 41 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an overview of our three reportable segments. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we revised how we allocate general and administrative and income tax expenses among our segments. All prior periods presented herein have been revised to conform to this new presentation. Comparison of Results for the Three Months Ended June30, 2017 to the Three Months Ended June30, 2016 The results of operations by reportable segment for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 are summarized in the table below (in millions, totals may not add due to rounding): Core Portfolio The results of operations for our Core Portfolio segment are depicted in the table above under the headings labeled "Core." Segment net income attributable to Acadia for our Core Portfolio increased by $1.3 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period as a result of the changes as further described below. Revenues from our Core Portfolio increased by $6.8 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016 ( ). Depreciation and amortization for our Core Portfolio increased by $3.8 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016. Property operating, other operating expenses and real estate taxes for our Core Portfolio increased by $1.9 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016. 42 Funds The results of operations for our Funds segment are depicted in the table above under the headings labeled "Funds." Segment net income attributable to Acadia for the Funds decreased by $7.3 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period as a result of the changes described below. Revenues from the Funds increased by $8.8 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016 and 2017 as well as substantially all of the City Point development project being placed in service in 2017 ( ). Depreciation and amortization for the Funds increased by $7.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the acquisitions in 2016 and 2017 as well as substantially all of the City Point development project being placed in service in 2017. Property operating, other operating expenses and real estate taxes for the Funds increased by $4.7 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the acquisitions in 2016 and 2017. Gain on disposition of properties for the Funds decreased by $16.6 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the sale of Heritage Shops in Fund III in the prior year period ( ). Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates for the Funds increased by $2.2 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the Fund's proportionate share of a $3.3 million gain from the sale of 1701 Belmont Avenue ( ). Interest expense for the Funds increased by $4.0 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to a $2.7 million increase related to higher average interest rates in 2017, a $0.3 million increase related to higher average outstanding borrowings in 2017 and $1.0 million increase related to amortization of higher loan costs in 2017. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Funds decreased by $14.5 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period primarily due to the gain on disposition of properties discussed above. Unallocated The Company does not allocate general and administrative expense and income taxes to its reportable segments. 43 Comparison of Results for the Six Months Ended June30, 2017 to the Six Months Ended June30, 2016 The results of operations by reportable segment for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June30, 2016 are summarized in the table below (in millions, totals may not add due to rounding): Core Portfolio Segment net income attributable to Acadia for our Core Portfolio increased by $2.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period as a result of the changes as further described below. Revenues from our Core Portfolio increased by $13.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016 as well as the accrual of reimbursements in the current year period related to a real estate tax reassessment for certain properties for $1.8 million, see below. Depreciation and amortization for our Core Portfolio increased by $6.8 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to property acquisitions in 2016. Property operating, other operating expenses and real estate taxes for our Core Portfolio increased by $6.2 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period with $4.4 million due to property acquisitions in 2016 and $1.8 million due to an increased real estate tax reassessment for certain properties. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in our Core Portfolio decreased by $2.0 million for the six months ended compared to the prior year period primarily due to the change in control of the Brandywine Portfolio ( ). Funds Segment net income attributable to Acadia for the Funds decreased by $26.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period as a result of the changes described below. 44 Revenues from the Funds increased by $16.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period primarily due to $9.2 million from property acquisitions in 2016 and 2017 as well as $6.6 million from substantially all of the City Point development project being placed in service during 2017 ( ). Depreciation and amortization for the Funds increased by $12.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the prior year period primarily due to $7.0 million from the acquisitions in 2016 and 2017 as well as $5.1 million from substantially all of the City Point development project being placed in service during 2017. Property operating, other operating expenses and real estate taxes for the Funds increased by $7.5 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to the acquisitions in 2016 and 2017 as well as substantially all of the City Point development project being placed in service during 2017. Gain on disposition of properties for the Funds decreased by $82.0 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period with $16.6 million due to the sale of Fund III's Heritage Shops and $65.4 million due to the sale of a 65% interest in Cortlandt Town Center in the prior year period ( ). Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates for the Funds increased by $13.0 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period primarily due to the Fund's proportionate share of $11.5 million from the sale of 1701 Belmont Avenue, Arundel Plaza and 2819 Kennedy Boulevard ( ). Interest expense for the Funds increased by $7.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period due to a $3.1 million increase related to higher average interest rates in 2017, $2.8 million increase related to higher average outstanding borrowings in 2017 and a $1.2 million increase in amortization of additional loan costs in 2017. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Funds decreased by $52.8 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period primarily due to the gain on disposition of properties discussed above. Structured Financing Interest income and segment net income attributable to Acadia from Structured Financing increased by $5.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to the prior year period primarily due to the recognition of default interest of $3.6 million during the current year period on a past due note ( ) and new loans originated during 2016. Unallocated The Company does not allocate general and administrative expense and income taxes to its reportable segments. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL MEASURES Net Property Operating Income The following discussion of net property operating income ("NOI") and rent spreads on new and renewal leases includes the activity from both our consolidated and our pro-rata share of unconsolidated properties within our Core Portfolio. Our Funds invest primarily in properties that typically require significant leasing and development. Given that the Funds are finite-life investment vehicles, these properties are sold following stabilization. For these reasons, we believe NOI and rent spreads are not meaningful measures for our Fund investments. NOI represents property revenues less property expenses. We consider NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases for our Core Portfolio to be appropriate supplemental disclosures of portfolio operating performance due to their widespread acceptance and use within the REIT investor and analyst communities. NOI and rent spreads on new and renewal leases are presented to assist investors in analyzing our property performance, however, our method of calculating these may be different from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. 45 A reconciliation of consolidated operating income to net operating income - Core Portfolio follows (in thousands): __________ (a) Does not include the Operating Partnership's share of NOI from unconsolidated joint ventures within the Funds Same-Property NOI includes Core Portfolio properties that we owned for both the current and prior periods presented, but excludes those properties which we acquired, sold or expected to sell, and developed during these periods. The following table summarizes Same-Property NOI for our Core Portfolio (in thousands): 46 Rent Spreads on Core Portfolio New and Renewal Leases The following table summarizes rent spreads on both a cash basis and straight-line basis for new and renewal leases based on leases executed within our Core Portfolio for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 . Cash basis represents a comparison of rent most recently paid on the previous lease as compared to the initial rent paid on the new lease. Straight-line basis represents a comparison of rents as adjusted for contractual escalations, abated rent and lease incentives for the same comparable leases. __________ (a) The average cost per square foot includes tenant improvement costs, leasing commissions and tenant allowances. Funds from Operations We consider funds from operations ("FFO") as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") to be an appropriate supplemental disclosure of operating performance for an equity REIT due to its widespread acceptance and use within the REIT and analyst communities. FFO is presented to assist investors in analyzing our performance. It is helpful as it excludes various items included in net income that are not indicative of the operating performance, such as gains (losses)from sales of depreciated property, depreciation and amortization, and impairment of depreciable real estate. Our method of calculating FFO may be different from methods used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. FFO does not represent cash generated from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and is not indicative of cash available to fund all cash needs, including distributions. It should not be considered as an alternative to net income for the purpose of evaluating our performance or to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Consistent with the NAREIT definition, we define FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (losses)from sales of depreciated property and impairment of depreciable real estate, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. 47 A reconciliation of net income attributable to Acadia to FFO follows (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Uses of Liquidity and Cash Requirements Our principal uses of liquidity are (i) distributions to our shareholders and OP unit holders, (ii) investments which include the funding of our capital committed to the Funds and property acquisitions and development/re-tenanting activities within our Core Portfolio, (iii) distributions to our Fund investors and (iv) debt service and loan repayments. Distributions In order to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, we must currently distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders. During the six months ended June30, 2017 , we paid dividends and distributions on our Common Shares, Common OP Units and Preferred OP Units totaling $56.0 million . This amount included a $13.3 million special dividend that was paid in January 2017, which related to the Operating Partnership's share of cash proceeds from property distributions during 2016. The balance of the distribution was funded from the Operating Partnership's share of operating cash flow. Distributions of $3.6 million were made to noncontrolling interests in Fund III during the six months ended June30, 2017 . This resulted from proceeds related to the disposition of Arundel Plaza as discussed in . 48 Investments in Real Estate During the six months ended June30, 2017 , within our Core and Fund portfolios we acquired four properties aggregating $82.9 million as follows: Capital Commitments During the six months ended June30, 2017 , we made capital contributions of $6.0 million to Fund IV in connection with acquisitions and development costs. Capital contributed will be used by the Funds to acquire and operate real estate assets. At June30, 2017 , our share of the remaining capital commitments to our Funds aggregated $149.9 million as follows: Fund II was launched in June 2004 with total committed capital of $300.0 million of which our share was $85.0 million, which has been fully funded. $13.1 million to Fund III. Fund III was launched in May 2007 with total committed capital of $450.0 million of which our original share was $89.6 million. During 2015, we acquired an additional interest, which had an original capital commitment of $20.9 million. $32.3 million to Fund IV. Fund IV was launched in May 2012 with total committed capital of $530.0 million of which our original share was $122.5 million. $104.5 million to Fund V. Fund V was launched in August 2016 with total committed capital of $520.0 million of which our initial share is $104.5 million. Development Activities During the six months ended June30, 2017 , capitalized costs associated with development activities totaled $46.3 million . These costs primarily related to Fund II's City Point project. At June30, 2017 , we had 13 properties under development for which the estimated total cost to complete these projects through 2020 was $102.0 million to $144.0 million and our share was approximately $34.1 million to $38.9 million. Debt A summary of our consolidated debt is as follows (in thousands): As of June30, 2017 , our consolidated outstanding mortgage and notes payable aggregated $1,561.0 million , excluding unamortized premium of $1.0 million and unamortized loan costs of $18.2 million , and were collateralized by 47 properties and related tenant leases. Interest rates on our outstanding indebtedness ranged from 1.00% to 6.00% with maturities that ranged from August1, 2017 , to April15, 2035 . Taking into consideration $430.8 million of notional principal under variable to fixed-rate swap agreements currently in effect, $900.2 million of the portfolio debt, or 57.7% , was fixed at a 3.91% weighted average interest rate and $660.8 million , or 42.3% was floating at a 3.16% weighted average interest rate as of June30, 2017 . There is $211.1 million of debt maturing in 2017 at a weighted-average interest rate of 3.56% . In addition, there is $3.5 million of scheduled principal amortization due in 2017. In addition, our share of scheduled remaining 2017 principal payments and maturities on its unconsolidated debt was $6.1 million at June30, 2017 . As it relates to the maturing debt in 2017, we may not 49 have sufficient cash on hand to repay such indebtedness, and, therefore, we expect to refinance at least a portion of this indebtedness or select other alternatives based on market conditions as these loans mature; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing at acceptable terms. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of capital for funding our liquidity needs include (i) the issuance of both public equity and OP Units, (ii) the issuance of both secured and unsecured debt, (iii) unfunded capital commitments from noncontrolling interests within our Funds, (iv) future sales of existing properties and (v) cash on hand and future cash flow from operating activities. Our cash on hand in our consolidated subsidiaries at June30, 2017 totaled $43.4 million . Our remaining sources of liquidity are described further below. Issuance of Equity We have an at-the-market ("ATM") equity issuance program which provides us an efficient and low-cost vehicle for raising public equity to fund our capital needs. Through this program, we have been able to effectively "match-fund" the required equity for our Core Portfolio and Fund acquisitions through the issuance of Common Shares over extended periods employing a price averaging strategy. In addition, from time to time, we have issued and intend to continue to issue, equity in follow-on offerings separate from our ATM program. Net proceeds raised through our ATM program and follow-on offerings are primarily used for acquisitions, both for our Core Portfolio and our pro-rata share of Fund acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. There were no issuances of equity under the ATM program during the six months ended June30, 2017 . Fund Capital During the six months ended June30, 2017 , noncontrolling interest capital contributions to Fund IV of $20.1 million were primarily used to fund recent acquisitions and development activities. At June30, 2017 , unfunded capital commitments from noncontrolling interests within our Funds III, IV and V were $40.2 million, $107.1 million and $415.5 million, respectively. Asset Sales During the six months ended June30, 2017 , within our Fund portfolio we sold three properties for an aggregate sales price of $53.4 million and recognized aggregate gains of $17.8 million as follows ( ): Fund III sold an unconsolidated property, Arundel Plaza, with a sales price of $28.8 million and recognized a gain on disposition of properties of $8.2 million of which our proportionate share was $1.3 million; Fund IV sold its 2819 Kennedy Boulevard property for $19.0 million and recognized a gain of $6.3 million of which our proportionate share was $1.4 million; and Fund IV sold its 1701 Belmont Avenue property for $5.6 million and recognized a gain of $3.3 million of which our proportionate share was $0.8 million. Structured Financing Repayments There are no scheduled principal collections on our structured financing portfolio ( ) for the remainder of 2017. Financing and Debt As of June30, 2017 , we had $235.8 million of additional capacity under existing revolving debt facilities. In addition, at that date we had 65 unleveraged consolidated properties with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $1.4 billion and 26 unleveraged unconsolidated properties for which our share of the carrying value was $93.8 million, although there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain financing for these properties at favorable terms if at all. 50 HISTORICAL CASH FLOW The following table compares the historical cash flow for the six months ended June30, 2017 with the cash flow for the six months ended June30, 2016 (in millions): Operating Activities Our operating activities provided $17.4 million more cash during the six months ended June30, 2017 , primarily due to additional cash flow from 2016 Core and Fund acquisitions. Investing Activities During the six months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016 , our investing activities used an additional $8.9 million of cash, primarily due to (i) $124.6 million less cash received from the disposition of properties, including unconsolidated affiliates, (ii) $25.5 million less cash received from return of capital from unconsolidated affiliates, (iii) an additional $42.7 million used for the acquisition of real estate, and (iv) $12.5 million less cash received from repayments of notes receivable. These items were partially offset by (i) $126.5 million less cash used for the issuance of notes receivable, (ii) $58.8 million less cash used for investments and advances to unconsolidated investments and (iii) $9.6 million less cash used for development and property improvement costs. Financing Activities Our financing activities used $47.9 million less cash during the six months ended June30, 2017 , primarily from (i) $141.4 million less cash received from the issuance of Common Shares and (ii) a decrease in cash of $136.9 million from capital contributions from noncontrolling interests. These items were partially offset by (i) an increase of $171.5 million of cash provided from net borrowings and (ii) a decrease of $63.0 million in cash distributions to noncontrolling interests. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes: (i) principal and interest obligations under mortgage and other notes, (ii) rents due under non-cancelable operating and capital leases, which includes ground leases at seven of our properties and the lease for our corporate office and (iii) construction commitments as of June30, 2017 (in millions): __________ (a) A ground lease expiring during 2078 provides the Company with an option to purchase the underlying land during 2031. If we do not exercise the option, the rents that will be due are based on future values and as such are not determinable at this time. Accordingly, the above table does not include rents for this lease beyond 2031. (b) In conjunction with the development of our Core Portfolio and Fund properties, we have entered into construction commitments with general contractors. We intend to fund these requirements with existing liquidity. 51 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have the following investments made through joint ventures for the purpose of investing in operating properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. As such, our financial statements reflect our investment and our share of income and loss from, but not the individual assets and liabilities, of these joint ventures. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for a discussion of our unconsolidated investments. The Operating Partnership's pro-rata share of unconsolidated debt related to those investments is as follows (dollars in millions): One of our unconsolidated affiliates is a party to an interest rate LIBOR swap with a notional value of $20.8 million, which effectively fixes the interest rate at 3.49% and matures in June 2023. Our pro-rata share of the fair value of such affiliate's derivative assets totaled $0.06 million as of June30, 2017 . CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe there have been no material changes to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in our 2016 Form 10-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Reference is made to for information about recently issued accounting pronouncements.