Item2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Prospectus dated April 6, 2016 filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4), which we refer to as the "Prospectus". This discussion and other parts of this Quarterly Report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk Factors." Overview We are a biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism that we believe will transform the lives of patients with inborn errors of metabolism and cancer. Our engineered human enzymes are designed to reduce the level of specific amino acids in the blood. In inborn errors of metabolism, or IEM, a subset of rare genetic metabolic diseases, we are seeking to reduce the toxic levels of amino acids in patients. In oncology, we are seeking to reduce amino acid blood levels below the normal range where we believe we will be able to exploit the dependence of certain cancers on specific amino acids. Our lead product candidate, AEB1102, is engineered to degrade the amino acid arginine and is being developed to treat two extremes of arginine metabolism, including arginine excess in patients with Arginase I deficiency, an IEM, as well as some cancers which have shown to have a metabolic dependence on arginine. AEB1102 has demonstrated the ability to reduce blood arginine levels in nonclinical and clinical studies supporting its use as a potential treatment of both Arginase I deficiency and those cancers predicted to be dependent on arginine for survival. Since inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts and resources to identifying and developing product candidates, conducting nonclinical studies, initiating and conducting clinical trials, recruiting personnel and raising capital. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our preferred stock, the initial public offering, or IPO, of our common stock, completed on April 12, 2016, and collection of a research grant. We have no recorded revenue from product sales and all of our revenue to date has been grant revenue. Since our inception, and through March 31, 2016, we have raised an aggregate of $54.7 million to fund our operations through sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collected of $5.3 million in grant proceeds. As of March 31, 2016, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $29.0 million. In April 2016, we completed our IPO and sold 5,481,940 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds of approximately $47.3 million net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. We have incurred net losses in each year since inception. Our net losses were $4.5 million and $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and from general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. As of March 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $28.1 million. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses over the next several years. Our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We anticipate that our expenses will increase significantly as we continue our clinical and diagnostic development activities for our lead product candidate, AEB1102; concurrently develop our pipeline product candidates; expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; and hire additional personnel. In addition, we expect to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. Recent Developments On April 12, 2016, we closed an IPO of our common stock, which resulted in the sale of 5,481,940 shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $10.00 per share, before underwriting discounts and commissions, including 481,940 shares of common stock issued upon the partial exercise by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares. We received net proceeds from the IPO of approximately $47.3 million after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions, and offering expenses. 16 In March 2016, our investigational new drug app lication ( IND ) for AEB1102 for t he treatment of patients with hematological malignancies was declared effective by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) . In the first half of 2016, we intend to initiate a Phase 1 dose escalation study in patients with relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of AEB1102. In April 2016, our clinical trial application ( CTA ) for AEB1102 for the treatment of patients with hematological malignancies was declared effective by Health Canada , which will enable us to use clinical site s in Canada for this trial. In January 2016, our IND application for AEB1102 for the treatment of Arginase I deficiency, a urea cycle disorder that results in elevated levels of the amino acid arginine was declared effective by the FDA. In the first half of 2016, we intend to initiate a Phase 1 dose escalation study designed to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of AEB1102 in patients with this IEM. Components of Operating Results Revenue To date, we have recognized revenue solely from a research grant from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas, or CPRIT, and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any of our product candidates. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect will occur for several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development, regulatory approval and eventual commercialization of our product candidates. In June 2015, we entered into a grant agreement with CPRIT for $19.8 million covering a three year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2017. The grant allows us to receive funds in advance of costs and allowable expenses being incurred. We record the revenue as qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the conditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed. On a quarterly basis, we are required to submit a financial reporting package outlining the nature and extent of reimbursable costs paid and requesting reimbursement under the grant. At the end of each period, expenses paid prior to reimbursement result in the recognition of a grant receivable. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs incurred for the discovery and development of our product candidates, most notably, our lead product candidate AEB1102. Since we currently do not have internal laboratory or manufacturing capabilities, we contract with external providers for nonclinical studies, clinical trials and manufacturing services. Our research and development costs include: costs from acquiring clinical trial materials and services performed for contracted services with our strategic manufacturing partner; fees paid to clinical trial sites, clinical research organizations, contract research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, nonclinical research companies, and academic institutions; employee and consultant-related expenses incurred, which include salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation; and expenses incurred under license agreements with third parties. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are deferred and capitalized. The capitalized amounts are expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. Research and development costs have historically represented the largest component of our total operating expenses. We plan to increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue the development of our product candidates. 17 Our expenditures on current and future nonclinical and clinical development programs are subject to numerous uncertainties in timing and cost to completion. The duration, costs, and timing of clinical trials and development of our product candidates w ill depend on a variety of factors, including: the scope, rate of progress, and expenses of our ongoing research activities as well as any additional clinical trials and other research and development activities; future clinical trial results; uncertainties in clinical trial enrollment rates or drop-out or discontinuation rates of patients; potential safety monitoring or other studies requested by regulatory agencies; significant and changing government regulation; and the timing and receipt of regulatory approvals, if any. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA and other regulatory approval is costly and time consuming and the successful development of our product candidates is highly uncertain. The risks and uncertainties associated with our research and development projects are discussed more fully in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report titled "Risk Factors." As a result of these risks and uncertainties, we are unable to determine with any degree of certainty the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects, or if, when, or to what extent we will generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates that obtain regulatory approval. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other related costs, including stock-based compensation, for personnel in executive, finance, accounting, and human resources functions. Other significant costs include legal fees relating corporate matters and fees for accounting and consulting services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in the future to support our continued research and development activities, potential commercialization of our product candidates and the increased costs of operating as a public company. These increases will likely include increased costs related to the hiring of additional personnel and fees to outside consultants, lawyers and accountants, among other expenses. Additionally, we expect to incur increased costs associated with being a public company, including expenses related to services associated with maintaining compliance with NASDAQ listing rules and SEC requirements, insurance and investor relations costs. Interest income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Income taxes Since inception in December 2013, through March 10, 2015, we were a Delaware LLC and elected to file as a partnership for federal and state income tax purposes through the year ended December 31, 2014. On March 10, 2015, we converted from a Delaware LLC to a Delaware corporation, and will file a corporate income tax return for the year ended December 31, 2015. For tax purposes, we elected to be treated as a corporation under Subchapter C of Chapter 1 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, effective January 1, 2015. We therefore, were subject to federal and state tax expense beginning January 1, 2015. We serve as a holding company for our seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations. For the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we and our seven wholly-owned subsidiaries will file a consolidated corporate federal income tax return. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to our lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. 18 We recognize benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not to be realized upon the ultimate settlement. Our policy is to recognize i nterest and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. To date, there have been no interest or penalties recognized in relation to the unrecognized tax benefits. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. These estimates form the basis for judgments we make about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are those policies which require the most significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated that our most critical accounting policies are those relating to accrued research and development costs and stock-based compensation. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operations included in our Prospectus dated April 6, 2016 filed with the SEC, except for the determination of the fair value of our common stock, which was used in estimating the fair value of stock-based awards at grant date. Prior to IPO, our stock was not publicly traded, therefore we estimated the fair value of our common stock as discussed in the Prospectus. Following our IPO, we established a policy, using the closing sale price per share of our common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market on the date of grant for purposes of determining the exercise price per share of our share-based awards to purchase common stock. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: * Percentage not meaningful Grant Revenues .We recorded grant revenue of $859,000 and $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The CPRIT grant agreement was executed in June 2015 and was not in effect during the three months ended March 31, 2015. 19 Research and Development Expenses .Research and development expenses increased by $2.0 million to $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015, an increase of 122%. Included in the research and development expenses are costs directly associated with our lead product candidate AEB1102, which increased to $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to: Higher nonclinical expenses, which increased by $0.9 million as a result of increased toxicology study costs in preparation for multi-dose clinical trials related to AEB1102 and additional research with the University of Texas at Austin; Higher personnel-related expenses, which increased by $0.5 million as a result of increased headcount to expand our internal regulatory and development capabilities and for the initiation of clinical trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors; Higher clinical development expenses, which increased by $0.6 million primarily as a result of initiating our Phase 1 dose escalation trial in patients with advanced solid tumors for AEB1102 in the second half of 2015 and preparing for our Phase 1 clinical trials for patients with hematological malignancies and Arginase I deficiency in the first quarter of 2016; General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.0 million to $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015, an increase of 116%. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.3 million in employee compensation, recruiting, and travel expenses and $0.7 million in professional services, audit and legal fees associated with preparing to be a public company and the development of administrative functions. Interest Income .Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The increase in interest income to $26,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $1,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was primarily due to funds invested from closing the Series B convertible preferred stock financing in March 2015 and purchased cash equivalents and marketable securities in September 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of liquidity We are an early stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history, and due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated operating losses since our inception and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any products. Since our inception and through March 31, 2016, we have funded our operations by raising an aggregate of $54.7 million of gross proceeds from the sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collected $5.3 million in grant proceeds. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with our strategic manufacturing partner in 2013 to provide convertible preferred shares in exchange for services performed, with the obligation fully satisfied in June 2015. In April 2016, we completed an IPO and sold 5,481,940 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds of $47.3 million net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Since we completed our IPO in April 2016, such proceeds are not reflected in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as of March 31, 2016. In June 2015, we entered into a Cancer Research Grant Contract with CPRIT, or the Grant Contract, under which we expect to generate up to $19.8 million in grant funding to fund our development of AEB1102. Through March 31, 2016, we have collected $5.3 million in grant proceeds with $14.5 million available for future collection under the grant contract. As of March 31, 2016, we have a grant receivable outstanding of $1.6 million. Our primary use of cash is to fund the development of our lead product candidate, AEB1102. This includes both the research and development costs and the general and administrative expenses required to support those operations. Since we are an early stage company, we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and we anticipate such losses, in absolute dollar terms, to increase as we continue our clinical trials in AEB1102 and expand our development efforts in our pipeline of nonclinical candidates. As of March 31, 2016, we had available cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $29.0 million. We believe that we have sufficient resources to fund our operations through March 31, 2018 with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities in conjunction with the proceeds received from our IPO. 20 Future funding requirements and operational plan Our operational plan for the current and upcoming fiscal years ending December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, respectively, is to commence and continue clinical trials for our lead product candidate AEB1102 in three separate indications, solid tumor, hematological malignancy, and Arginase I deficiency, and to expand development for at least one additional product candidate. As such, we plan to increase our research and development expenditures for the foreseeable future with nonclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing and an integrated biomarker strategy. We expect our principal expenditures during this time period to include expenses for the following: funding the continuing development of AEB1102; funding the advancement of additional product candidates; and funding working capital, including general operating expenses. We anticipate that we will continue to generate losses into the foreseeable future as we develop our lead product candidates, seek regulatory approval of those candidates and begin to commercialize any approved products. Until such time as we can generate substantial product revenue, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity or debt financings, research grants, collaborations, or other sources. We currently have no debt or debt facility or additional committed capital. To the extent that we raise additional equity, the ownership interest of our shareholders will be diluted. Due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated substantial losses in each period since inception. We have incurred an accumulated deficit of $28.1 million through March 31, 2016. We expect to incur substantial losses in the future as we expand our research and development capabilities. Based on those plans, we expect that the net proceeds from the IPO, together with our existing cash, cash equivalent, and marketable securities will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 24 months. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, however, and we could use our capital resources sooner than we expect. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Cash used in operating activities Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $4.0 million and reflected a net loss of $4.5 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $0.1 million for stock-based compensation. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payables of $0.3 million and accrued and other liabilities of $0.5 million driven by an increase in accrued research and development costs, offset by a $0.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets driven by an increase in sponsored research and prepaid research and development costs. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $2.5 million and reflected a net loss of $2.5 million. Included in the change in operating cash were offsetting changes from non-cash expenses of $0.2 million for services performed by our strategic manufacturing partner for previously issued convertible preferred stock and an increase of $0.2 million in prepaid expenses and other assets driven by an increase in sponsored research and deferred offering costs. Cash used in investing activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $1.2 million and consisted of $3.0 million in purchases of marketable securities offset by $1.8 million in maturities of marketable securities. 21 Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $20,000 and consisted of $10,000 in purchases of property and equipment and a $10,000 increase in restricted cash. Cash provided by financing activities Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $0.1 million from offering cost payments related to our IPO of our common stock. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $43.7 million resulting from the $44.0 million closing of the Series B financing in March 2015, offset by $0.3 million in Series B issuance costs. Contractual Obligations In November 2014, we entered into an operating lease agreement to occupy office space in Austin, TX. The lease commenced in January 2015 and will continue through December 2017. The total of the estimated rent payments over the term of the lease are approximately $419,000. In January 2016, we amended our research agreement with the University of Texas at Austin to increase the maximum limitation of funding by $82,000 for additional purchases with no increase in the term of the agreement. The effective agreement as of March 31, 2016 expires on August 31, 2016 with no remaining payment obligations. Contingent contractual obligations The terms of the CPRIT Grant Contract require that we pay tiered royalties in the low- to mid-single digit percentages on revenues from sales and license or products or services that are based upon, utilize, are developed from or materially incorporate the intellectual property resulting from the grant-funded activities for AEB1102. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single digit multiple of the grant funds have been repaid to CPRIT in royalties. Such royalties are payable for so long as we have marketing exclusivity or patents covering the applicable product or service (or twelve years from commercial sale of product or service in certain countries if there is no such exclusivity or patent protection). On December 24, 2013, two of our wholly owned subsidiaries, AECase, Inc. (AECase) and AEMase, Inc. (AEMase) entered into license agreements with the University of Texas at Austin (the University) under which the University has granted to AECase and AEMase exclusive, worldwide, sublicenseable licenses. The University granted the AECase license under a patent application relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB3103 product candidate. The University granted the AEMase license under a patent relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB2109 product candidate. The licenses have substantially identical terms. With respect to each product candidate covered by a license with the University, AECase or AEMase could be required to pay the University up to $6.4 million milestone payments based on the achievement of certain development milestones, including clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the majority of which are due upon the achievement of later development milestones, including a $5.0 million payment due on regulatory approval of a product and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a product for a second indication. AECase and AEMase are also required to pay an annual license fee, ranging from $5,000 to $25,000. In addition, AECase and AEMase will pay the University a low single digit royalty on worldwide-net sales of products covered under each license agreement, together with a revenue share on non-royalty consideration received from sublicensees. The rate of the revenue share depends on the date the sublicense agreement is signed. The rate is 30% for agreements signed in 2014, 25% for agreements signed in 2015, 20% for agreements signed in 2016, 15% for agreements signed in 2017 and 6.5% for agreements signed in 2018 and thereafter. The University may terminate the agreement for breach by AECase or AEMase that is not cured within 30 or 60 days of notice (depending on the type of breach) and three or more financial breaches in any nine month period which, even if cured, were not cured within 30 days of notice, or if AECase or AEMase or any of their respective affiliates or sublicensees participates in any proceeding to challenge the licensed patent rights (unless, with respect to sublicensees, AECase or AEMase terminates the applicable sublicense). Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined by applicable SEC regulations. 22 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to continue as a Going Concern, which provides guidance on the presentation of management's plans, when conditions or events raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. The new standard is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2016. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.Item1. Financial Statements Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 1 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 2 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (Unaudited) (In thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) (In thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. The Company and Basis of Presentation Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. ("Aeglea" or the "Company") is an early-stage biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism that it believes will transform the lives of patients with cancer and inborn errors of metabolism, a subset of rare genetic metabolic diseases. The Company was formed as a Limited Liability Company (LLC) in Delaware on December 16, 2013 under the name Aeglea BioTherapeutics Holdings, LLC ("Aeglea LLC") and was converted from a Delaware LLC to a Delaware corporation (the "LLC Conversion") on March 10, 2015. The Company operates in one segment and has its principal offices in Austin, Texas. Initial Public Offering On April 6, 2016, the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-205001) relating to the initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The IPO closed on April 12, 2016, and 5,481,940 shares of common stock were sold at a public offering price of $10.00 per share, including 481,940 shares of common stock issued upon the partial exercise by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares. The Company received $47.3 million in aggregate cash proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions of $3.8 million and offering costs of $3.7 million incurred by the Company. Immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all shares of outstanding convertible preferred stock were automatically converted, at a ratio of one share of common stock for each share of convertible preferred stock, into 7,172,496 shares of common stock with the related carrying value of $58.3 million reclassified to common stock and additional paid-in capital. In connection with the IPO, the Company amended its Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Public Certificate") to change the authorized capital stock to 510,000,000 shares of which 500,000,000 shares are designated as common stock and 10,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock, all with a par value of $0.0001 per share. There are no shares of preferred stock outstanding as of June 30, 2016. Reverse Stock Split The Company's Board of Directors and stockholders approved a 1-for-10.5 reverse stock split of the Company's common stock and preferred stock. The reverse stock split became effective on March 28, 2016 upon filing an amended Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Split Certificate"). The Split Certificate remained in effect until closing of the IPO, at which time the company amended the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and filed the Public Certificate. All share and per share amounts in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been retroactively adjusted for all periods presented to give effect to this reverse stock split, including reclassifying an amount equal to the reduction in par value of common stock to additional paid-in capital. Liquidity As of June 30, 2016, the Company had working capital of $73.5 million, an accumulated deficit of $33.6 million, and cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $73.6 million. The Company has not generated any product revenues and has not achieved profitable operations. There is no assurance that profitable operations will ever be achieved, and, if achieved, could be sustained on a continuing basis. In addition, development activities, clinical and nonclinical testing, and commercialization of the Company's products will require significant additional financing. The Company believes that its existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be sufficient to enable the Company to continue as a going concern for at least 12 months beyond June 30, 2016. However, the Company will need to secure additional funding in the future, in order to carry out all of its planned research and development activities. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing or generate license or product revenue, the lack of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future prospects. Unaudited Interim Financial Information The interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in this document are unaudited. The unaudited interim financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal and recurring nature that are necessary for the fair presentation of the Company's financial position as of June 30, 2016, and its results of operations and cash flows for the six months 5 ended June 3 0 , 2016 and 2015. The results of operations for the six months ended June 30 , 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending Dece mber31, 2016 or for any other future annual or interim period. The December 31, 2015 balance sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United State s ("U.S. GAAP") . These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Prospectus dated April 6, 2016 filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) (the "Prospectus"). 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Such management estimates include those related to accruals of research and development related costs, fair values of preferred and common stock, stock-based compensation, and certain company income tax related items. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Risks and Uncertainties The product candidates being developed by the Company require approvals from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") or foreign regulatory agencies prior to commercial sales. There can be no assurance that the Company's product candidates will receive the necessary approvals. If the Company is denied regulatory approval of its product candidates, or if such approvals are delayed, it may have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and its financial position. The Company is subject to a number of risks similar to other life science companies, including, but not limited to, risks related to the successful discovery and development of product candidates, raising additional capital, development of competing drugs and therapies, protection of proprietary technology and market acceptance of the Company's products. As a result of these and other factors and the related uncertainties, there can be no assurance of the Company's future success. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents consist of money market funds and debt securities and are stated at fair value. Marketable Securities All investments have been classified as available-for-sale and are carried at estimated fair value as determined based upon quoted market prices or pricing models for similar securities. Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments in debt securities at the time of purchase. Unrealized gains and losses are excluded from earnings and are reported as a component of accumulated comprehensive loss. Realized gains and losses and declines in fair value judged to be other than temporary, if any, on available-for-sale securities are included in other income (expense). The cost of securities sold is based on the specific-identification method. There were no realized gains or losses on marketable securities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. Interest on marketable securities is included in interest income. Restricted Cash Restricted cash consists of a money market account held by a financial institution as collateral for the Company's obligations under a corporate credit card agreement. 6 Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash. The Company's investment policy limits investments to high credit quality securities issued by the U.S. government, U.S. government-sponsored agencies and highly rated banks, subject to certain concentration limits and restrictions on maturities. The Company's cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and restricted cash are held by financial institutions in the United States that management believes are of high credit quality. Amounts on deposit may at times exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses on its deposits of cash and cash equivalents and its accounts are monitored by management to mitigate risk. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the financial institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents and bond issuers to the extent recorded in the balance sheets. Deferred Offering Costs Deferred offering costs, which primarily consist of direct incremental legal, printing, and accounting fees relating to the Company's IPO of its common stock, are capitalized. At the closing of the IPO, the deferred offering costs were offset against the proceeds from the IPO and recorded to additional paid-in capital. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Repairs and maintenance that do not extend the life or improve an asset are expensed as incurred. Upon retirement or sale, the cost of disposed assets and their related accumulated depreciation are removed from the balance sheet. Any gain or loss is credited or charged to operations. The useful lives of the property and equipment are as follows: Laboratory equipment 5 years Furniture and office equipment 5 years Computer equipment 3 years Software 3 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of remaining lease term or estimated useful life Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are reviewed for indications of possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by comparison of the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent an asset group is not recoverable, and the carrying amount exceeds the projected discounted future cash flows arising from these assets. There were no impairments of long-lived assets for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. Accrued Research and Development Costs The Company records the costs associated with research nonclinical studies, clinical trials, and manufacturing development as incurred. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses, as a substantial portion of the Company's on-going research and development activities are conducted by third-party service providers, including contract research and manufacturing organizations. 7 The Company accrues for expenses resulting from obligations under agreements with contract research organizations ("CROs"), contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs"), and other outside service providers for which pay ment flows do not match the periods over which materials or services are provided to the Company. Accruals are recorded based on estimates of services received and efforts expended pursuant to agreements established with CROs, CMOs, and other outside servi ce providers. These estimates are typically based on contracted amounts applied to the proportion of work performed and determined through analysis with internal personnel and external service providers as to the progress or stage of completion of the serv ices. The Company makes significant judgments and estimates in determining the accrual balance in each reporting period. In the event advance payments are made to a CRO, CMO, or outside service provider, the payments will be recorded as a prepaid asset whi ch will be amortized as the contracted services are performed. As actual costs become known, the Company adjusts its accruals. Inputs, such as the services performed, the number of patients enrolled, or the study duration, may vary from the Company's estim ates, resulting in adjustments to research and development expense in future periods. Changes in these estimates that result in material changes to the Company's accruals could materially affect the Company's results of operations. The Company has not expe rienced any material deviations between accrued and actual research and development expenses. Leases The Company entered into a lease agreement for its office facilities. The lease is classified as an operating lease. The Company records rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and, accordingly records the difference between cash rent payments and the recognition of rent expense as a deferred rent liability. Incentives granted under the Company's facilities leases, including allowances to fund leasehold improvements, are deferred and are recognized as adjustments to rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company uses fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities and to determine fair value disclosures. The accounting standards define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value, and require disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the principal or most advantageous market in which the Company would transact are considered along with assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions, and risk of nonperformance. The accounting standard for fair value establishes a fair value hierarchy based on three levels of inputs, the first two of which are considered observable and the last unobservable, that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1: Observable inputs, such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level3 : Valuations based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and including data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances. Financial instruments carried at fair value include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The carrying amount of accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Convertible Preferred Stock The Company recorded the issuance of all convertible preferred stock net of offering costs on the dates of issuance, which represented the carrying value. The conversion feature of the convertible preferred stock was subject to certain anti-dilution provisions, which if triggered, would have required the Company to seek shareholder approval to increase the number of shares of common stock authorized. In the event that the Company could not deliver the conversion shares 8 because it d id not have an adequate number of common stock authorized , the convertible preferred stock would have be en redeemable. Accordingly, the Company has classified the convertible preferred stock in temporary equity. The Company did not adjust the carrying value of the convertible preferred stock to their redemption values, since it was uncertain whether or when a redemption event w ould occur. The convertible preferred stock outstanding was automatically converted into shares of comm on stock immediately prior to the completio n of the IPO in April 2016 (see Note 1). Revenue Recognition The Company's sole source of revenue is grant revenue related to a $19.8 million research grant received from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas ("CPRIT"), covering a three year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2017. Grant revenue is recognized when qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the conditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred or the conditions of the award being met are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed and the conditions of the award are met (see Note 6). Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development costs include, but are not limited to, salaries, benefits, travel, share-based compensation, consulting costs, contract research service costs, laboratory supplies, contract manufacturing costs, and costs paid to other third parties that conduct research and development activities on the Company's behalf. Amounts incurred in connection with license agreements are also included in research and development expense. Certain research and development costs incurred were settled contractually by the Company issuing a variable number of the Company's shares determined by dividing the fixed monetary amount of costs incurred by the issuance-date fair value of the issuable shares. The Company recorded research and development expense for these costs and accrued for the fixed monetary amount as an accrued liability as the services were rendered until the amount was settled. In June 2015, the remaining Company obligation to settle these costs with Company shares was converted to a cash-based payment through a contract amendment with the service provider. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are recorded as a prepaid asset and expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to employees based on the estimated grant-date fair values of the awards. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period. The Company recognizes the compensation costs for awards that vest over several years on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Company recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to nonemployees at their then-current fair values as services are performed, and are remeasured through the counterparty performance date. Income Taxes Effective January 1, 2015, the Company, for tax purposes, converted from a partnership to a corporation and continues to serve as a holding company for seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company will file a consolidated corporate federal income tax return. The Company and its subsidiaries use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to a lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The Company recognizes benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not be realized upon the ultimate settlement. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. To date, there have been no interest or penalties recognized in relation to the unrecognized tax benefits. 9 Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive loss is the change in stockholders' equity (deficit) from transactions and other events and circumstances other than those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. The Company's other comprehensive income (loss) is currently comprised of changes in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. Reclassification Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. These reclassifications did not have an impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties About an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which will require management to assess, at each annual and interim reporting period, the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The amendments in ASU 2014-15 do not have any application to an entity's financial statements, but only to disclosure in the related notes. ASU 2014-15 is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016 and early application is permitted. The Company intends to apply ASU 2014-15 in the first quarter of 2017 and for the annual period ending December 31, 2016. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. 3. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables summarize the estimated fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized gains and losses (in thousands): 10 All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities held as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 had maturities of less than one year. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company held zero and five debt securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position for less than one year. The aggregate fair value of debt securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2015 was $2.5 million with no individual securities in a significant unrealized loss position. The Company evaluated its securities for other-than-temporary impairment and considered the decline in market value for the securities to be primarily attributable to current economic and market conditions and would not be required to sell the securities before recovery of the amortized cost basis. Based on this analysis, these marketable securities were not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2015. 4. Accrued and Other Current Liabilities Accrued and other current liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 5. Convertible Preferred Stock On April 12, 2016, immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all of the Company's outstanding convertible preferred stock was automatically converted into an aggregate total of 7,172,496 shares of common stock (see Note 1). On March 10, 2015, the Company converted from a Delaware limited liability company into a Delaware corporation and changed the Company's name from Aeglea BioTherapeutics Holdings, LLC to Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. In connection with the LLC Conversion, all of the Company's outstanding common shares and convertible preferred shares were converted into shares of common stock and convertible preferred stock. Upon the LLC Conversion, each then-outstanding Series A convertible preferred share was converted into one share of Series A convertible preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. The Company determined that the LLC Conversion resulted in a deemed dividend from stockholders of common stock to stockholders of Series A convertible preferred stock of $0.11 per share of Series A convertible preferred stock. The Company recorded $228,000 as an increase in the carrying amount of the Series A convertible preferred stock and as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Such dividend was determined by comparing the fair value of the Series A convertible preferred shares immediately prior to the conversion to the fair value of the Series A convertible preferred stock issued in the conversion. Also on March 10, 2015, the Company issued 4,929,948 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share, at an issuance price equal to $8.93 per share and received gross proceeds of $44.0 million. In connection with the financing, the Company incurred total offering costs of $321,000. 11 6.Grant Rev enues In June 2015, the Company entered into a Cancer Research Grant Contract ("Grant Contract") with CPRIT, under which CPRIT awarded a grant not to exceed $19.8 million for use in developing cancer treatments by exploiting the metabolism of cancer cells. The Grant Contract covers a three year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2017. Upon commercialization of the product, the terms of the Grant Contract require the Company to pay tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digit percentages. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single-digit multiple of the grant funds have been paid to CPRIT in royalties. The agreement includes reimbursement for qualified expenditures incurred and recognized in 2014. Upon execution of the Grant Contract, grant revenue was recognized for the accumulated qualified expenditures paid and recognized in the period from June 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015. The Company recognized grant revenue of $1.4 million and $3.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $2.2 million and $3.4 million in the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, for qualified expenditures under the grant. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had an outstanding grant receivable of $1.6 million and $1.7 million, respectively, for the grant expenditures that were paid but had not been reimbursed. 7. Stock-Based Compensation 2016 Equity Incentive Plan On April 5, 2016, the day preceding the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, the 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Plan") became effective and serves as the successor to the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2015 Plan"). Under the 2016 Plan, the Company may grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance awards, and stock bonuses. A total of 1,100,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2016 Plan. The shares reserved exclude shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2015 Plan. Shares totaling 509,869 that were remaining under the 2015 Plan were added to the shares initially reserved under the 2016 Plan upon its effectiveness. In addition, the number of shares of stock available for issuance under the 2016 Plan may be increased each January 1, beginning on January 1, 2017 and continuing through 2023, by 4% of the outstanding number of shares of the Company's common stock on the immediately preceding December 31 or such lesser number as determined by the Company's board of directors. No further stock option or other awards may be granted under the 2015 Plan. 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan On April 6, 2016, upon the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, the 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2016 ESPP") became effective. A total of 165,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2016 ESPP. Eligible employees may purchase shares of common stock under the 2016 ESPP at 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the Company's common stock as of the first or the last day of each offering period. Employees are limited to contributing 15% of the employee's eligible compensation, and may not purchase more than $25,000 of stock during any calendar year or more than 2,000 shares during any one purchase period or a lesser amount determined by the board of directors. The 2016 ESPP will terminate ten years from the first purchase date under the plan, unless terminated earlier by the board of directors. As of June 30, 2016, no shares had been issued from the ESPP and 165,000 shares were available for issuance under the 2016 ESPP. Stock Options In May 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the modification of 542,392 outstanding stock options for 21 employees to align the vesting schedule of existing awards with the Company's planned vesting schedule for future awards. The result was an acceleration of vesting for the modified awards. Stock options with a five year vesting schedule and 25% vesting after year two and 6.25% quarterly thereafter were modified to a four year vesting schedule with 25% vesting after year one and 2.08% monthly thereafter. Stock options with a four year vesting schedule and 25% vesting after year one and 6.25% quarterly thereafter were modified to a similar four year vesting schedule with 25% vesting after year one and 2.08% monthly thereafter. The modified awards have service conditions only. In accordance with ASC 718, the Company determined the fair value of the awards immediately before the modification and compared that amount to the then fair value of the modified awards. Given there was no incremental fair value in connection with the modification of the awards, the Company will continue to recognize the compensation expense originally estimated for the stock options at the date of grant over the modified service period. The Company 12 recognized $89,000 in cumulative expense as of the mod ification date related to changes in the service period for the modified awards. During the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company issued an aggregate of 635,800 and 544,059 options, respectively, to purchase common stock under its equity incentive plans for an aggregate fair value of $3.4 million and $2.0 million , respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company issued an aggregate of 720,217 and 644,505 options, respectively, to purchase common stock under its equity incentive plans for an aggregate fair value of $3.7 million and $2.1 million, respectively. Total stock-based compensation expense related to the Company's equity incentive plans and 2016 ESPP was as follows (in thousands): The following table summarizes the weighted-average Black-Scholes option pricing model assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options granted under the 2016 Plan and 2015 Plan and the shares purchasable under the 2016 ESPP during the periods presented: 8. Fair Value Measurements The Company measures and reports certain financial instruments as assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis. The following tables sets forth the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis based on the three-tier fair value hierarchy (in thousands): 13 The Company measures the fair value of money market funds on quoted prices in active markets for identical asset or liabilities. The Level 2 assets include reverse repurchase agreements and U.S. government and agency securities and are valued based on quoted prices for similar assets in active markets and inputs other than quoted prices that are derived from observable market data. The Company evaluates transfers between levels at the end of each reporting period. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the periods presented. 9. Net Loss Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders The Company computed net loss attributable per common stockholder using the two-class method required for participating securities through the date of the IPO. Immediately prior to the IPO, all outstanding convertible preferred stock was converted into common stock (see Note 5). The Company considered convertible preferred stock to be participating securities. In the event that the Company had paid out distributions, holders of convertible preferred stock would have participated in the distribution. The two-class method is an earnings (loss) allocation method under which earnings (loss) per share is calculated for common stock and participating security considering a participating security's rights to undistributed earnings (loss) as if all such earnings (loss) had been distributed during the period. The convertible preferred stock did not have an obligation to fund losses and are therefore excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per share. Starting in the first quarter of 2015 in connection with the LLC Conversion, the Company's Series A and B convertible preferred stock were entitled to receive noncumulative dividends and in preference to any dividends on shares of the Company's common stock. Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is computed by dividing net loss attributable to common stock by the weighted-average number of common stock outstanding during the period. For net loss per share attributable to common stockholders for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, the effect of the LLC Conversion is presented prospectively from January 1, 2015 as none of the losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 were allocated to the members of Aeglea LLC. For periods in which the Company generated a net loss, the Company does not include the potential impact of dilutive securities in diluted net loss per share, as the impact of these items is anti-dilutive. Additionally, the convertible preferred stock dividend is included in the loss attributable to common stockholders. The following weighted-average equity instruments were excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented: 10. Research and License Agreements University Research Agreement In December 2013, the Company entered into a research agreement with the University of Texas at Austin (the "University"). Under the terms of this research agreement, the Company engaged the University to perform certain 14 nonclinical research activities related to the syst emic depletion of amino acids for cancer therapy and rare disease therapy . Under the research agreement, the Company was required to pay the University an annual amount not to exceed $386,000 during the one year term of the agreement from the effective date. The term and maximum expenditure limitation were subsequently extended and increased through four subsequent amendments through August 31, 2016 for a combined $1.0 million under the agreement, including an amendment in January 2016 increasing the maximum expenditure limitation by $82,000 for equipment purchased by the University on behalf of the Company. The Company made no payments to the University under the research agreement in the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 and made payments of $457,000 and $188,000 in the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. License Agreements In December 2013, the Company entered into two license agreements with the University. Under the terms of each license agreement, the University granted the Company an exclusive worldwide license to develop, manufacture, and commercialize therapeutics related to the University's engineered cysteine/cystine degrading enzymes and engineered methionine degrading enzymes for use in the treatment of human diseases. Under each license agreement, the Company paid the University an up-front fee of $10,000 in 2013 and will pay annual license fees increasing from $5,000 in 2016 to $25,000 in 2018 and thereafter. The Company may be required to make future payments of up to $6.4 million contingent upon attainment of various development and regulatory approval milestones for the licensed product in any country. The milestone payments are payable in various amounts upon the start of different phases of clinical trials, application for, and receipt of regulatory approval, with $5.0 million payable upon the receipt of regulatory approval and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a second indication. Additionally, upon commercial sales of the product, the Company will be required to pay to the University a single-digit royalty on net sales of the licensed products in any country or region, if such product sales are ever achieved. 11. Related Party Transactions The spouse of the Company's Chief Executive Officer provides consulting services to the Company. Payments made to the spouse in consulting fees were $195,000 and $129,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $324,000 and $222,000 in the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The costs were recorded in Research and Development expenses. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had an outstanding liability to the related party of $90,000, and $129,000, respectively. One of the founders, a non-employee member of the Company's Board of Directors, entered into a consulting agreement with the Company in 2014 under which the founder would receive $50,000 per year for a fixed number of hours of consulting and advisory services and receive 57,142 Common B shares (converted into 43,290 restricted stock awards and 13,852 stock options upon the LLC Conversion) with the vesting contingent on time and performance milestones being achieved. The Company paid $13,000 and $13,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $25,000 and $25,000 in the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, to the Founder under the consulting agreement. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had no outstanding liability to the related party. 12. Commitments and Contingencies The Company's lease agreement for office space commenced in January 2015 and expires three years after the commencement date. Under the terms of the office lease agreement, the Company provided the lessor with a $54,000 security deposit. The lessor shall be entitled to retain all or any part of the security deposit for payment in the event of any uncured default by the Company under the terms of the lease. Provided that the Company is not in default under the lease beyond any applicable cure period, the security deposit requirement shall be reduced by $18,000 each year and returned to the Company. The Company records rent expense on a straight-line basis over the effective term of the lease. Rent expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $35,000 and $35,000, respectively. Rent expense for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $70,000 and $70,000, respectively. 15 Indemnification The Company indemnifies each of its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while the officer or director is or was serving at the Company's request in such capacity, as permitted under Delaware law and in accordance with its certificate of incorporation and subsidiaries' certificates of incorporation and bylaws. The term of the indemnification period lasts as long as an officer or a director may be subject to any proceeding arising out of acts or omissions of such officer or director in such capacity. The maximum amount of potential future indemnification is unlimited; however, the Company currently holds director and officer liability insurance. This insurance allows the transfer of risk associated with the Company's exposure and may enable it to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. The Company believes that the fair value of these indemnification obligations is minimal. Accordingly, it has not recognized any liabilities relating to these obligations for any period presented. 13. Subsequent Events For its interim financial statements as of June 30, 2016 and for the six months then ended, the Company evaluated subsequent events through the date of issuance. In August 2016, the Company amended the research agreement with the University of Texas at Austin. The scope and term under the agreement were extended through August 31, 2017 with a $750,000 increase in the maximum expenditure limitation. 16 Item2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Prospectus dated April 6, 2016 filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4), which we refer to as the "Prospectus". This discussion and other parts of this Quarterly Report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk Factors." Overview We are a biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism that we believe will transform the lives of patients with inborn errors of metabolism and cancer. Our recombinant human enzymes are designed to reduce the level of specific amino acids in the blood. In inborn errors of metabolism, or IEM, we are seeking to reduce the toxic levels of amino acids in patients. In oncology, we are seeking to reduce amino acid blood levels below the normal range where we believe we will be able to exploit the dependence of certain cancers on specific amino acids. Our lead product candidate, AEB1102, is engineered to degrade the amino acid arginine and is being developed to treat two extremes of arginine metabolism, including arginine excess in patients with Arginase I deficiency, an IEM, as well as some cancers which have shown to have a metabolic dependence on arginine. AEB1102 has demonstrated the ability to reduce blood arginine levels in nonclinical and oncology clinical studies supporting its use as a potential treatment of both Arginase I deficiency and those cancers predicted to be dependent on arginine for survival. We have initiated three Phase 1 clinical trials for AEB1102. In October 2015, we initiated enrollment for a dose escalation trial in patients with advanced solid tumors and intend to initiate expansion arms in different tumor types in 2017. In June 2016, we initiated a clinical trial for the treatment of Arginase I deficiency, a urea cycle disorder that results in elevated circulating levels of the amino acid arginine, with the intent to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of AEB1102 in patients with this IEM. In July 2016, we initiated a clinical trial in patients with relapsed refractory acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, and myelodysplastic syndrome, or MDS, in the United States and Canada. We expect to report topline clinical data in 2017. Since inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts and resources to identifying and developing product candidates, conducting nonclinical studies, initiating and conducting clinical trials, recruiting personnel and raising capital. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our preferred stock, the initial public offering, or IPO, of our common stock, completed on April 12, 2016, and collection of a research grant. In connection with the IPO, we sold 5,481,940 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds of $47.3 million net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs. We have no recorded revenue from product sales and all of our revenue to date has been grant revenue. Since our inception, and through June 30, 2016, we have raised an aggregate of $109.5 million to fund our operations through sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collected $6.7 million in grant proceeds. As of June 30, 2016, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $73.6 million. We have incurred net losses in each year since inception. Our net losses were $10.0 million and $3.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and from general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. As of June 30, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $33.6 million. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses over the next several years. Our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We anticipate that our expenses will increase significantly as we continue our clinical and diagnostic development activities for our lead product candidate, AEB1102; concurrently develop our pipeline product candidates; expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; and hire additional personnel. In addition, we expect to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. 17 Recent Developments In July 2016, we initiated a Phase 1 trial of AEB1102 for the treatment of patients with relapsed refractory AML or MDS in the United States and Canada to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of AEB1102. Based on data obtained in the Phase 1 trial of AEB1102 for the treatment of advanced solid tumors, the trial protocol was amended to increase the starting dose in patients with AML and MDS. Enrollment is expected to be completed in 2017. In July 2016, we received Orphan Drug Designation from the European Commission for AEB1102 for the treatment of hyperargininemia secondary to Arginase I deficiency. The European Commission's Orphan Drug Designation provides benefits, such as protocol assistance, fee reductions and ten years of market exclusivity upon regulatory approval. In June 2016, we initiated a Phase 1 study of AEB1102 for the treatment of patients with Arginase I deficiency to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of AEB1102 in patents with this IEM. Enrollment is expected to be completed in 2016 with topline data expected in the first half of 2017. In May 2016, we received Fast Track Designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for AEB1102 for the treatment of hyperargininemia secondary to Arginase I deficiency. The FDA's Fast Track Designation is designed to facilitate drug development and expedite the review of drugs to treat serious conditions with an unmet medical need, such as hyperargininemia, which results from Arginase I deficiency. The advantages of Fast Track Designation include actions to potentially expedite development, including opportunities for frequent interactions with the FDA review team to discuss all aspects of development to support approval and eligibility for accelerated approval and priority review depending on clinical data at the time of a Biologics License Application, or BLA, submission. Components of Operating Results Revenue To date, we have recognized revenue solely from a research grant from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas, or CPRIT, and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any of our product candidates. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect will occur for several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development, regulatory approval and eventual commercialization of our product candidates. In June 2015, we entered into a grant agreement with CPRIT for $19.8 million covering a three year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2017. The grant allows us to receive funds in advance of costs and allowable expenses being incurred. We record the revenue as qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the conditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred or the conditions of the award being met are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed and the conditions of the award are met. On a quarterly basis, we are required to submit a financial reporting package outlining the nature and extent of reimbursable costs paid and requesting reimbursement under the grant. At the end of each period, expenses paid prior to reimbursement result in the recognition of a grant receivable. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs incurred for the discovery and development of our product candidates, most notably, our lead product candidate AEB1102. Since we currently do not have internal laboratory or manufacturing capabilities, we contract with external providers for nonclinical studies, clinical trials and manufacturing services. Our research and development costs include: costs from acquiring clinical trial materials and services performed for contracted services with our strategic manufacturing partner; fees paid to clinical trial sites, clinical research organizations, contract research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, nonclinical research companies, and academic institutions; employee and consultant-related expenses incurred, which include salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation; and expenses incurred under license agreements with third parties. 18 Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are deferred and capitalized. The capitalized amounts are expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. Research and development costs have historically represented the largest component of our total operating expenses. We plan to increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue the development of our product candidates. Our expenditures on current and future nonclinical and clinical development programs are subject to numerous uncertainties in timing and cost to completion. The duration, costs, and timing of clinical trials and development of our product candidates will depend on a variety of factors, including: the scope, rate of progress, and expenses of our ongoing research activities as well as any additional clinical trials and other research and development activities; future clinical trial results; uncertainties in clinical trial enrollment rates or drop-out or discontinuation rates of patients; potential safety monitoring or other studies requested by regulatory agencies; significant and changing government regulation; and the timing and receipt of regulatory approvals, if any. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA and other regulatory approval is costly and time consuming and the successful development of our product candidates is highly uncertain. The risks and uncertainties associated with our research and development projects are discussed more fully in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report titled "Risk Factors." As a result of these risks and uncertainties, we are unable to determine with any degree of certainty the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects, or if, when, or to what extent we will generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates that obtain regulatory approval. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other related costs, including stock-based compensation, for personnel in executive, finance, accounting, and human resources functions. Other significant costs include legal fees relating corporate matters and fees for accounting and consulting services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in the future to support our continued research and development activities, potential commercialization of our product candidates and the increased costs of operating as a public company. These increases will likely include increased costs related to the hiring of additional personnel and fees to outside consultants, lawyers and accountants, among other expenses. Additionally, we expect to incur increased costs associated with being a public company, including expenses related to services associated with maintaining compliance with NASDAQ listing rules and SEC requirements, insurance and investor relations costs. Interest income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Income taxes Since inception in December 2013, through March 10, 2015, we were a Delaware LLC and elected to file as a partnership for federal and state income tax purposes through the year ended December 31, 2014. On March 10, 2015, we converted from a Delaware LLC to a Delaware corporation, and will file a corporate income tax return for the year ended December 31, 2015. For tax purposes, we elected to be treated as a corporation under Subchapter C of Chapter 1 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, effective January 1, 2015. We therefore, were subject to federal and state tax expense beginning January 1, 2015. We serve as a holding company for our seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations. For the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we and our seven wholly-owned subsidiaries will file a consolidated corporate federal income tax return. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax 19 assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowa nce is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to our lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. We recognize benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not to be realized upon the ultimate settlement. Our policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. To date, there have been no interest or penalties recognized in relation to the unrecognized tax benefits. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. These estimates form the basis for judgments we make about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are those policies which require the most significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with our most critical accounting policies are those relating to accrued research and development costs and stock-based compensation. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operations included in our Prospectus dated April 6, 2016 filed with the SEC, except for the determination of the fair value of our common stock, which was used in estimating the fair value of stock-based awards at grant date. Prior to IPO, our stock was not publicly traded, therefore we estimated the fair value of our common stock as discussed in the Prospectus. Following our IPO, we established a policy of using the closing sale price per share of our common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market on the date of grant for purposes of determining the exercise price per share of our share-based awards to purchase common stock. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: * Percentage not meaningful 20 Grant Revenues . Grant revenue decreased by $2.1 million , or 60%, to $1.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $3.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. The decrease was due to grant revenue recognized in connection with the execution of the CPRIT grant agreement in Jun e 2015. Upon execution of the agreement, all accumulated qualified expenditures paid and incurred during the period from June 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015 were recognized as grant revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Research and Development Expenses .Research and development expenses increased by $1.7 million, or 62%, to $4.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Included in the research and development expenses are costs directly associated with our lead product candidate AEB1102, which increased to $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to: Higher nonclinical expenses, which increased by $0.4 million as a result of additional toxicology studies and analysis costs in preparation for multi-dose clinical trials related to AEB1102 and additional research with the University of Texas at Austin; Higher personnel-related expenses, which increased by $0.8 million as a result of increased headcount to expand our internal regulatory and development capabilities in support of the three separate clinical trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors, Arginase I deficiency, and hematological malignancies; and Higher clinical development expenses, which increased by $0.8 million primarily as a result of initiating our Phase 1 dose escalation trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors in October 2015 and Arginase I deficiency in June 2016, and preparing for the initiation of our Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with hematological malignancies. The increase in research and development expenses was offset by lower manufacturing expenses, which decreased by $0.4 million primarily as a result of manufacturing drug product in the first half of 2015 for use in clinical trials. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.3 million, or 15%, to $2.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $2.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.2 million in employee compensation, recruiting, and travel expenses and $0.2 million in insurance and other administrative costs associated with being a public company offset by a $0.1 million decrease in professional services, audit and legal fees. Interest Income .Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The increase in interest income to $74,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $5,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to purchased cash equivalents and marketable securities in September 2015 and funds invested from the closing of the IPO in April 2016. Comparison of the Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: * Percentage not meaningful 21 Grant Revenues . Grant revenue decreased by $1.2 million , or 35%, to $2.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $3.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The decrease was due to grant revenue recognized in connection with the execution of the CPRIT grant agreement in June 2015. Upon execution of the agreement, all accumulated qualified expenditures paid and incurred during the period from June 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015 were recognized as grant revenue in the six months ended June 30, 2015 . Research and Development Expenses .Research and development expenses increased by $3.7 million, or 84%, to $8.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $4.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Included in the research and development expenses are costs directly associated with our lead product candidate AEB1102, which increased to $5.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $2.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to: Higher nonclinical expenses, which increased by $1.2 million as a result of additional toxicology studies and analysis costs in preparation for multi-dose clinical trials related to AEB1102 and additional research with the University of Texas at Austin; Higher personnel-related expenses, which increased by $1.4 million as a result of increased headcount to expand our internal regulatory and development capabilities in support of the three separate clinical trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors, Arginase I deficiency, and hematological malignancies; and Higher clinical development expenses, which increased by $1.4 million primarily as a result of initiating our Phase 1 dose escalation trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors in October 2015 and Arginase I deficiency in June 2016, and preparing for the initiation of our Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with hematological malignancies. The increase in research and development expenses was offset by lower manufacturing expenses, which decreased by $0.6 million primarily as a result of manufacturing drug product in the first half of 2015 for use in clinical trials. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.3 million, or 44%, to $4.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $3.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was due to an increase of $0.5 million in employee compensation, recruiting, and travel expenses, $0.5 million in professional services, audit and legal fees associated with preparing to be a public company and the development of administrative functions, and $0.2 million in insurance and other administrative costs associated with being a public company. Interest Income .Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The increase in interest income to $100,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $6,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to purchased cash equivalents and marketable securities in September 2015 and funds invested from the closing of the IPO in April 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of liquidity We are an early stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history, and due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated operating losses since our inception and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any products. Since our inception and through June 30, 2016, we have funded our operations by raising an aggregate of $109.5 million of gross proceeds from the sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collecting $6.7 million in grant proceeds. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with our strategic manufacturing partner in 2013 to provide convertible preferred shares in exchange for services performed, with the obligation fully satisfied in June 2015. In April 2016, we completed an IPO and sold 5,481,940 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds of $47.3 million net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In June 2015, we entered into a Cancer Research Grant Contract with CPRIT, or the Grant Contract, under which we expect to generate up to $19.8 million in grant funding to fund our development of AEB1102. Through June 30, 2016, we have collected $6.7 million in grant proceeds with $13.1 million available for future collection under the grant contract. As of June 30, 2016, we have a grant receivable outstanding of $1.6 million. Our primary use of cash is to fund the development of our lead product candidate, AEB1102. This includes both the research and development costs and the general and administrative expenses required to support those operations. 22 Since we are an early stage company, we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and we anticipate such losses, in absolute dollar terms, to increase as we continue our clinical trials in AEB1102 and expand our development efforts in our pipeline of nonclinical candidates. As of June 30, 2016, we had available cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $73.6 million. We believe that we have sufficient resources to fund our operations through March 31, 2018 with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Future funding requirements and operational plan Our operational plan for the near future is to commence and continue clinical trials for our lead product candidate AEB1102 in three separate indications, advanced solid tumors, hematological malignancies, and Arginase I deficiency, and to expand development for at least one additional product candidate. As such, we plan to increase our research and development expenditures for the foreseeable future with nonclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing and an integrated biomarker strategy. We expect our principal expenditures during this time period to include expenses for the following: funding the continuing development of AEB1102; funding the advancement of additional product candidates; and funding working capital, including general operating expenses. We anticipate that we will continue to generate losses into the foreseeable future as we develop our lead product candidates, seek regulatory approval of those candidates and begin to commercialize any approved products. Until such time as we can generate substantial product revenue, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity or debt financings, research grants, collaborations, or other sources. We currently have no debt or debt facility or additional committed capital. To the extent that we raise additional equity, the ownership interest of our shareholders will be diluted. Due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated substantial losses in each period since inception. We have incurred an accumulated deficit of $33.6 million through June 30, 2016. We expect to incur substantial losses in the future as we expand our research and development capabilities. Based on those plans, we expect our existing cash, cash equivalent, and marketable securities will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements at least through March 31, 2018. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, however, and we could use our capital resources sooner than we expect. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Cash used in operating activities Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $8.6 million and reflected a net loss of $10.0 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $0.5 million for stock-based compensation. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payables of $0.2 million and accrued and other liabilities of $1.2 million driven by an increase in accrued research and development costs, offset by a $0.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets driven by an increase in prepaid insurance premiums and prepaid clinical development costs. Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $6.3 million and reflected a net loss of $3.9 million and a decrease in operating assets and liabilities of $3.2 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $0.5 million for services performed by our strategic manufacturing partner for issued convertible preferred 23 stock. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in gr ant accounts receivable of $3.4 million driven by executing the CPRIT grant agreement in June 2015, offset by an increase of $0. 5 million of accounts payable and accrued expenses driven by an increase in nonclinical activity . Cash used in investing activities Cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $0.7 million and consisted of $3.0 million in purchases of marketable securities and $0.1 million in purchases of property and equipment offset by $3.8 million in maturities of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $44,000 and consisted of $34,000 in purchases of property and equipment and a $10,000 increase in restricted cash. Cash provided by financing activities Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $49.3 million, which consisted of $54.8 million from the IPO in April 2016, offset by $3.8 million in underwriting discounts and commissions and $1.7 million in offering costs. Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $42.8 million resulting from the $44.0 million closing of the Series B financing in March 2015, offset by $0.3 million in Series B offering costs and $0.8 million in IPO offering costs. Contractual Obligations In November 2014, we entered into an operating lease agreement to occupy office space in Austin, TX. The lease commenced in January 2015 and will continue through December 2017. The total of the estimated rent payments over the term of the lease are approximately $419,000. In August 2016, the Company amended the research agreement with the University of Texas at Austin. The scope and term under the agreement were extended through August 31, 2017 with a $750,000 increase in the maximum expenditure limitation. The effective agreement as of June 30, 2016 expires on August 31, 2017 with no remaining payment obligations. Contingent contractual obligations The terms of the CPRIT Grant Contract require that we pay tiered royalties in the low- to mid-single digit percentages on revenues from sales and license or products or services that are based upon, utilize, are developed from or materially incorporate the intellectual property resulting from the grant-funded activities for AEB1102. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single digit multiple of the grant funds have been repaid to CPRIT in royalties. Such royalties are payable for so long as we have marketing exclusivity or patents covering the applicable product or service (or twelve years from commercial sale of product or service in certain countries if there is no such exclusivity or patent protection). On December 24, 2013, two of our wholly owned subsidiaries, AECase, Inc. (AECase) and AEMase, Inc. (AEMase) entered into license agreements with the University of Texas at Austin (the University) under which the University has granted to AECase and AEMase exclusive, worldwide, sublicenseable licenses. The University granted the AECase license under a patent application relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB3103 product candidate. The University granted the AEMase license under a patent relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB2109 product candidate. The licenses have substantially identical terms. With respect to each product candidate covered by a license with the University, AECase or AEMase could be required to pay the University up to $6.4 million milestone payments based on the achievement of certain development milestones, including clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the majority of which are due upon the achievement of later development milestones, including a $5.0 million payment due on regulatory approval of a product and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a product for a second indication. AECase and AEMase are also required to pay an annual license fee, ranging from $5,000 to $25,000. In addition, AECase and AEMase will pay the University a low single digit royalty on worldwide-net sales of products covered under each license agreement, together with a revenue share on non-royalty consideration received from sublicensees. The rate of the revenue share depends on the date the sublicense agreement is signed. The rate is 30% for agreements signed in 24 2014, 25% for agreements signed in 2015, 20% for agreements signed in 2016, 15% for agreements signed in 2017 and 6.5% for agreements signed in 2018 and thereafter. The University may terminate the agre ement for breach by AECase or AEMase that is not cured within 30 or 60 days of notice (depending on the type of breach) and three or more financial breaches in any nine month period which, even if cured, were not cured within 30days of notice, or if AECas e or AEMase or any of their respective affiliates or sublicensees participates in any proceeding to challenge the licensed patent rights (unless, with respect to sublicensees, AECase or AEMase terminates the applicable sublicense). Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined by applicable SEC regulations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to continue as a Going Concern, which will require management to assess, at each annual and interim reporting period, the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The amendments in ASU 2014-15 do not have any application to an entity's financial statements, but only to disclosure in the related notes. ASU 2014-15 is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016 and early application is permitted. The Company intends to apply ASU 2014-15 in the first quarter of 2017 and for the annual period ending December 31, 2016. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.Item1. Financial Statements Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 1 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 2 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (Unaudited) (In thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) (In thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. The Company and Basis of Presentation Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. ("Aeglea" or the "Company") is an early-stage biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism that it believes will transform the lives of patients with cancer and inborn errors of metabolism, a subset of rare genetic metabolic diseases. The Company was formed as a Limited Liability Company (LLC) in Delaware on December 16, 2013 under the name Aeglea BioTherapeutics Holdings, LLC ("Aeglea LLC") and was converted from a Delaware LLC to a Delaware corporation (the "LLC Conversion") on March 10, 2015. The Company operates in one segment and has its principal offices in Austin, Texas. Initial Public Offering On April 6, 2016, the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-205001) relating to the initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The IPO closed on April 12, 2016, and 5,481,940 shares of common stock were sold at a public offering price of $10.00 per share, including 481,940 shares of common stock issued upon the partial exercise by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares. The Company received $47.3 million in aggregate cash proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions of $3.8 million and offering costs of $3.7 million incurred by the Company. Immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all shares of outstanding convertible preferred stock were automatically converted, at a ratio of one share of common stock for each share of convertible preferred stock, into 7,172,496 shares of common stock with the related carrying value of $58.3 million reclassified to common stock and additional paid-in capital. In connection with the IPO, the Company amended its Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Public Certificate") to change the authorized capital stock to 510,000,000 shares of which 500,000,000 shares are designated as common stock and 10,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock, all with a par value of $0.0001 per share. There are no shares of preferred stock outstanding as of September 30, 2016. Reverse Stock Split The Company's Board of Directors and stockholders approved a 1-for-10.5 reverse stock split of the Company's common stock and preferred stock. The reverse stock split became effective on March 28, 2016 upon filing an amended Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Split Certificate"). The Split Certificate remained in effect until closing of the IPO, at which time the company amended the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and filed the Public Certificate. All share and per share amounts in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto have been retroactively adjusted for all periods presented to give effect to this reverse stock split, including reclassifying an amount equal to the reduction in par value of common stock to additional paid-in capital. Liquidity As of September 30, 2016, the Company had working capital of $67.8 million, an accumulated deficit of $39.8 million, and cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $68.0 million. The Company has not generated any product revenues and has not achieved profitable operations. There is no assurance that profitable operations will ever be achieved, and, if achieved, could be sustained on a continuing basis. In addition, development activities, clinical and nonclinical testing, and commercialization of the Company's products will require significant additional financing. The Company believes that its existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will be sufficient to enable the Company to continue as a going concern for at least 12 months beyond September 30, 2016. However, the Company will need to secure additional funding in the future, in order to carry out all of its planned research and development activities. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing or generate license or product revenue, the lack of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future prospects. Unaudited Interim Financial Information The interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in this document are unaudited. The unaudited interim financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal and recurring nature that are necessary for a fair statement of the 5 Company's financial position as of September 30 , 2016, and its results of operations for the three months and nine months ended September 3 0 , 2016 and 2015 , and cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 . The results of operations for the nine months ended September 30 , 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December31, 201 6 or for any other future annual or interim period. The December 31, 2015 balance sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") . These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Prospectus dated April 6, 2016 filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) (the "Prospectus"). 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Such management estimates include those related to accruals of research and development related costs, fair values of preferred and common stock, stock-based compensation, and certain company income tax related items. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Risks and Uncertainties The product candidates being developed by the Company require approvals from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") or foreign regulatory agencies prior to commercial sales. There can be no assurance that the Company's product candidates will receive the necessary approvals. If the Company is denied regulatory approval of its product candidates, or if such approvals are delayed, it may have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and its financial position. The Company is subject to a number of risks similar to other life science companies, including, but not limited to, risks related to the successful discovery and development of product candidates, raising additional capital, development of competing drugs and therapies, protection of proprietary technology and market acceptance of the Company's products. As a result of these and other factors and the related uncertainties, there can be no assurance of the Company's future success. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents consist of money market funds and debt securities and are stated at fair value. Marketable Securities All investments have been classified as available-for-sale and are carried at estimated fair value as determined based upon quoted market prices or pricing models for similar securities. Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments in debt securities at the time of purchase. Unrealized gains and losses are excluded from earnings and are reported as a component of accumulated comprehensive loss. Realized gains and losses and declines in fair value judged to be other than temporary, if any, on available-for-sale securities are included in other income (expense). The cost of securities sold is based on the specific-identification method. There were no realized gains or losses on marketable securities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. Interest on marketable securities is included in interest income. Restricted Cash Restricted cash consisted of a money market account held by a financial institution as collateral for the Company's obligations under a corporate credit card agreement. In September 2016, the collateral requirement was terminated and the restricted cash balance was transferred to cash and cash equivalents. 6 Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The Company's investment policy limits investments to high credit quality securities issued by the U.S. government, U.S. government-sponsored agencies and highly rated banks, subject to certain concentration limits and restrictions on maturities. The Company's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held by financial institutions in the United States that management believes are of high credit quality. Amounts on deposit may at times exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses on its deposits of cash and cash equivalents and its accounts are monitored by management to mitigate risk. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the financial institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents and bond issuers. Deferred Offering Costs Deferred offering costs, which primarily consist of direct incremental legal, printing, and accounting fees relating to the Company's IPO of its common stock, are capitalized. At the closing of the IPO, the deferred offering costs were offset against the proceeds from the IPO and recorded to additional paid-in capital. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Repairs and maintenance that do not extend the life or improve an asset are expensed as incurred. Upon retirement or sale, the cost of disposed assets and their related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from the balance sheet. Any gain or loss is credited or charged to operations. The useful lives of the property and equipment are as follows: Laboratory equipment 5 years Furniture and office equipment 5 years Computer equipment 3 years Software 3 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of remaining lease term or estimated useful life Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are reviewed for indications of possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by comparison of the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent an asset group is not recoverable, and the carrying amount exceeds the projected discounted future cash flows arising from these assets. There were no impairments of long-lived assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. Accrued Research and Development Costs The Company records the costs associated with research nonclinical studies, clinical trials, and manufacturing development as incurred. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses, with a substantial portion of the Company's on-going research and development activities conducted by third-party service providers, including contract research and manufacturing organizations. The Company accrues for expenses resulting from obligations under agreements with contract research organizations ("CROs"), contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs"), and other outside service providers for which payment flows do not match the periods over which materials or services are provided to the Company. Accruals are recorded based on estimates of services received and efforts expended pursuant to agreements established with CROs, CMOs, and other outside service providers. These estimates are typically based on contracted amounts applied to the proportion of work performed and determined through analysis with internal personnel and external service providers as to the progress or stage of completion of the services. The Company makes significant judgments and estimates in determining the accrual balance in each reporting period. In the event advance payments are made to a CRO, CMO, or outside service provider, the payments will be recorded as a prepaid asset which will be amortized as the contracted services are performed. As actual costs become known, the Company adjusts its accruals. Inputs, such as the services performed, the number of patients enrolled, or the study duration, may vary from the Company's estimates, resulting in 7 adjustments to research and development expense in future periods. Changes in these estimates that result in material changes to the Company's accruals could materia lly affect the Company's results of operations. The Company has not experienced any material deviations between accrued and actual research and development expenses. Leases The Company entered into a lease agreement for its office facilities. The lease is classified as an operating lease. The Company records rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and, accordingly records the difference between cash rent payments and the recognition of rent expense as a deferred rent liability. Incentives granted under the Company's facilities leases, including allowances to fund leasehold improvements, are deferred and are recognized as adjustments to rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company uses fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities and to determine fair value disclosures. The accounting standards define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value, and require disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the principal or most advantageous market in which the Company would transact are considered along with assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions, and risk of nonperformance. The accounting standard for fair value establishes a fair value hierarchy based on three levels of inputs, the first two of which are considered observable and the last unobservable, that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are as follows: Level1 : Observable inputs, such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level3 : Valuations based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and including data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances. Financial instruments carried at fair value include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The carrying amount of accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Convertible Preferred Stock The Company recorded the issuance of all convertible preferred stock net of offering costs on the dates of issuance, which represented the carrying value. The conversion feature of the convertible preferred stock was subject to certain anti-dilution provisions, which if triggered, would have required the Company to seek shareholder approval to increase the number of shares of common stock authorized. In the event that the Company could not deliver the conversion shares because it did not have an adequate number of common stock authorized, the convertible preferred stock would have been redeemable. Accordingly, the Company classified the convertible preferred stock in temporary equity. The Company did not adjust the carrying value of the convertible preferred stock to their redemption values, since it was uncertain whether or when a redemption event would occur. The convertible preferred stock outstanding was automatically converted into shares of common stock immediately prior to the completion of the IPO in April 2016 (see Note 1). Revenue Recognition The Company's sole source of revenue is grant revenue related to a $19.8 million research grant received from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas ("CPRIT"), covering a three year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2017. Grant revenue is recognized when qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the 8 co nditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred or the conditions of the award being met are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed and the conditions of the award are met (se e Note6). Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development costs include, but are not limited to, salaries, benefits, travel, share-based compensation, consulting costs, contract research service costs, laboratory supplies, contract manufacturing costs, and costs paid to other third parties that conduct research and development activities on the Company's behalf. Amounts incurred in connection with license agreements are also included in research and development expense. Certain research and development costs incurred were settled contractually by the Company issuing a variable number of the Company's shares determined by dividing the fixed monetary amount of costs incurred by the issuance-date fair value of the issuable shares. The Company recorded research and development expense for these costs and accrued for the fixed monetary amount as an accrued liability as the services were rendered until the amount was settled. In June 2015, the remaining Company obligation to settle these costs with Company shares was converted to a cash-based payment through a contract amendment with the service provider. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are recorded as a prepaid asset and expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to employees based on the estimated grant-date fair values of the awards. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period. The Company recognizes the compensation costs for awards that vest over several years on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The Company recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to nonemployees at their then-current fair values as services are performed, and are remeasured through the counterparty performance date. Income Taxes Effective January 1, 2015, the Company, for tax purposes, converted from a partnership to a corporation and continues to serve as a holding company for seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company filed a consolidated corporate federal income tax return. The Company and its subsidiaries use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to a lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The Company recognizes benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not be realized upon the ultimate settlement. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. To date, there have been no interest or penalties recognized in relation to the unrecognized tax benefits. Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive loss is the change in stockholders' equity (deficit) from transactions and other events and circumstances other than those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. The Company's other comprehensive income (loss) is currently comprised of changes in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. 9 Reclassification Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. These reclassifications did not have an impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties About an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which will require management to assess, at each annual and interim reporting period, the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The amendments in ASU 2014-15 do not have any application to an entity's financial statements, but only to disclosure in the related notes. ASU 2014-15 is effective for annual and interim periods ending after December 15, 2016 and early application is permitted. The Company intends to apply ASU 2014-15 in the first quarter of 2017 and for the annual period ending December 31, 2016. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. 3. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables summarize the estimated fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized gains and losses (in thousands): 10 All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities held as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 had maturities of less than one year. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company held two and five debt securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position for less than one year. The aggregate fair value of debt securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were $3.8 million and $2.5 million, respectively, with no individual securities in a significant unrealized loss position. The Company evaluated its securities for other-than-temporary impairment and considered the decline in market value for the securities to be primarily attributable to current economic and market conditions and would not be required to sell the securities before recovery of the amortized cost basis. Based on this analysis, these marketable securities were not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. 4. Accrued and Other Current Liabilities Accrued and other current liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 5. Convertible Preferred Stock On April 12, 2016, immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all of the Company's outstanding convertible preferred stock was automatically converted into an aggregate total of 7,172,496 shares of common stock (see Note 1). On March 10, 2015, the Company converted from a Delaware limited liability company into a Delaware corporation and changed the Company's name from Aeglea BioTherapeutics Holdings, LLC to Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. In connection with the LLC Conversion, all of the Company's outstanding common shares and convertible preferred shares were converted into shares of common stock and convertible preferred stock. Upon the LLC Conversion, each then-outstanding Series A convertible preferred share was converted into one share of Series A convertible preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. The Company determined that the LLC Conversion resulted in a deemed dividend from stockholders of common stock to stockholders of Series A convertible preferred stock of $0.11 per share of Series A convertible preferred stock. The Company recorded $228,000 as an increase in the carrying amount of the Series A convertible preferred stock and as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Such dividend was determined by comparing the fair value of the Series A convertible preferred shares immediately prior to the conversion to the fair value of the Series A convertible preferred stock issued in the conversion. Also on March 10, 2015, the Company issued 4,929,948 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share, at an issuance price equal to $8.93 per share and received gross proceeds of $44.0 million. In connection with the financing, the Company incurred total offering costs of $321,000. 6. Grant Revenues In June 2015, the Company entered into a Cancer Research Grant Contract ("Grant Contract") with CPRIT, under which CPRIT awarded a grant not to exceed $19.8 million for use in developing cancer treatments by exploiting the metabolism of cancer cells. The Grant Contract covers a three year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2017. Upon commercialization of the product, the terms of the Grant Contract require the Company to pay tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digit percentages. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single-digit multiple of the grant funds have been paid to CPRIT in royalties. The agreement includes reimbursement for qualified expenditures incurred and recognized in 2014. Upon execution of the Grant Contract, grant revenue was recognized for the accumulated qualified expenditures paid and recognized in 11 the period from June 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015. The Company recogn ized grant revenue of $1. 2 million and $1 . 1 million in the three months ended September 3 0 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $3 . 4 million and $4 .5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, for qualified expenditures under the grant. As of September 30 , 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had an outstanding grant receivable of $1.6 million and $1.7million, respectively, for the grant expenditures that were paid but had not been reimburse d and deferred revenue of $0.2 million and $0, respectively, for proceeds received but the costs had not been incurred or the condit ions of the award had not been met. 7. Stock-Based Compensation 2016 Equity Incentive Plan On April 5, 2016, the day preceding the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, the 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Plan") became effective and serves as the successor to the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2015 Plan"). Under the 2016 Plan, the Company may grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance awards, and stock bonuses. A total of 1,100,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2016 Plan. The shares reserved exclude shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2015 Plan. Shares totaling 509,869 that were remaining under the 2015 Plan were added to the shares initially reserved under the 2016 Plan upon its effectiveness. In addition, the number of shares of stock available for issuance under the 2016 Plan may be increased each January 1, beginning on January 1, 2017 and continuing through 2023, by 4% of the outstanding number of shares of the Company's common stock on the immediately preceding December 31 or such lesser number as determined by the Company's board of directors. No further stock option or other awards may be granted under the 2015 Plan. 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan On April 6, 2016, upon the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, the 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2016 ESPP") became effective. A total of 165,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2016 ESPP. Eligible employees may purchase shares of common stock under the 2016 ESPP at 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the Company's common stock as of the first or the last day of each offering period. Employees are limited to contributing 15% of the employee's eligible compensation, and may not purchase more than $25,000 of stock during any calendar year or more than 2,000 shares during any one purchase period or a lesser amount determined by the board of directors. The 2016 ESPP will terminate ten years from the first purchase date under the plan, unless terminated earlier by the board of directors. During the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company issued and sold 19,061 shares under the 2016 ESPP. The remaining 145,939 shares are available for issuance as of September 30, 2016. Stock Options In May 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the modification of 542,392 outstanding stock options for 21 employees to align the vesting schedule of existing awards with the Company's planned vesting schedule for future awards. The result was an acceleration of vesting for the modified awards. Stock options with a five year vesting schedule and 25% vesting after year two and 6.25% quarterly thereafter were modified to a four year vesting schedule with 25% vesting after year one and 2.08% monthly thereafter. Stock options with a four year vesting schedule and 25% vesting after year one and 6.25% quarterly thereafter were modified to a similar four year vesting schedule with 25% vesting after year one and 2.08% monthly thereafter. The modified awards have service conditions only. In accordance with ASC 718, the Company determined the fair value of the awards immediately before the modification and compared that amount to the then fair value of the modified awards. Given there was no incremental fair value in connection with the modification of the awards, the Company will continue to recognize the compensation expense originally estimated for the stock options at the date of grant over the modified service period. The Company recognized $89,000 in cumulative expense as of the modification date related to changes in the service period for the modified awards. During the three months ended September 30, 2016, the Company issued an aggregate of 11,562 options to purchase common stock under its equity incentive plans for an aggregate fair value of $42,000. There were no options issued during the three months ended September 30, 2015. 12 During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company issued an aggreg ate of 731,779 and 644,505 options, respectively, to purchase common stock under its equity incentive plans for an aggregate fair value of $3.7 million and $2.1 million , respectively. Total stock-based compensation expense related to the Company's equity incentive plans and 2016 ESPP was as follows (in thousands): The following table summarizes the weighted-average Black-Scholes option pricing model assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options granted under the 2016 Plan and 2015 Plan and the shares purchasable under the 2016 ESPP during the periods presented: 8. Defined Contribution Plan In September 2016, the Company began to sponsor a 401(k) retirement plan in which substantially all of its full-time employees are eligible to participate. Participants may contribute a percentage of their annual compensation to this plan, subject to statutory limitations. The Company did not provide any contributions to the plan during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. 9. Fair Value Measurements The Company measures and reports certain financial instruments as assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis. The following tables sets forth the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis based on the three-tier fair value hierarchy (in thousands): 13 The Company measures the fair value of money market funds on quoted prices in active markets for identical asset or liabilities. The Level 2 assets include reverse repurchase agreements and U.S. government and agency securities and are valued based on quoted prices for similar assets in active markets and inputs other than quoted prices that are derived from observable market data. The Company evaluates transfers between levels at the end of each reporting period. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the periods presented. 10. Net Loss Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders The Company computed net loss attributable per common stockholder using the two-class method required for participating securities through the date of the IPO. Immediately prior to the IPO, all outstanding convertible preferred stock was converted into common stock (see Note 5). The Company considered convertible preferred stock to be participating securities. In the event that the Company had paid out distributions, holders of convertible preferred stock would have participated in the distribution. The two-class method is an earnings (loss) allocation method under which earnings (loss) per share is calculated for common stock and participating security considering a participating security's rights to undistributed earnings (loss) as if all such earnings (loss) had been distributed during the period. The convertible preferred stock did not have an obligation to fund losses and are therefore excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per share. Starting in the first quarter of 2015 in connection with the LLC Conversion, the Company's Series A and B convertible preferred stock were entitled to receive noncumulative dividends and in preference to any dividends on shares of the Company's common stock. Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is computed by dividing net loss attributable to common stock by the weighted-average number of common stock outstanding during the period. For net loss per share attributable to common stockholders for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, the effect of the LLC Conversion is presented prospectively from January 1, 2015 as none of the losses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 were allocated to the members of Aeglea LLC. For periods in which the Company generated a net loss, the Company does not include the potential impact of dilutive securities in diluted net loss per share, as the impact of these items is anti-dilutive. Additionally, the convertible preferred stock dividend is included in the loss attributable to common stockholders. The following weighted-average equity instruments were excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented: 11. Research and License Agreements University Research Agreement In December 2013, the Company entered into a research agreement with the University of Texas at Austin (the "University"). Under the terms of this research agreement, the Company engaged the University to perform certain 14 nonclinical research activities related to the systemic depletion of amino acids for cancer therapy and rare disease therapy . Under the research agreement, the Company was required to pay the University an annual amount not to exceed $386,000 during the one year term of the agreement from the effective date. The term and maximum expenditure limitation were subsequently extended and increased through five subsequent amendments through August 31, 2017 for a combined $1.8 million under the agreement, including an amendment in August 2016 increasing the maximum expenditure limitation by $750,000 for additional research to be performed by the University. The Company made payments to the University under the research agreement of $188,000 and $375,000 in the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and made payments of $645,000 and $563,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. License Agreements In December 2013, the Company entered into two license agreements with the University. Under the terms of each license agreement, the University granted the Company an exclusive worldwide license to develop, manufacture, and commercialize therapeutics related to the University's engineered cysteine/cystine degrading enzymes and engineered methionine degrading enzymes for use in the treatment of human diseases. Under each license agreement, the Company paid the University an up-front fee of $10,000 in 2013 and will pay annual license fees increasing from $5,000 in 2016 to $25,000 in 2018 and thereafter. The Company may be required to make future payments of up to $6.4 million contingent upon attainment of various development and regulatory approval milestones for the licensed product in any country. The milestone payments are payable in various amounts upon the start of different phases of clinical trials, application for, and receipt of regulatory approval, with $5.0 million payable upon the receipt of regulatory approval and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a second indication. Additionally, upon commercial sales of the product, the Company will be required to pay to the University a single-digit royalty on net sales of the licensed products in any country or region, if such product sales are ever achieved. 12. Related Party Transactions The spouse of the Company's Chief Executive Officer provides consulting services to the Company. Payments made to the spouse in consulting fees were $65,000 and $110,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $389,000 and $332,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The costs were recorded in Research and Development expenses. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had an outstanding liability to the related party of $11,000, and $129,000, respectively. One of the founders, a non-employee member of the Company's Board of Directors, entered into a consulting agreement with the Company in 2014 under which the founder would receive $50,000 per year for a fixed number of hours of consulting and advisory services and receive 57,142 Common B shares (converted into 43,290 restricted stock awards and 13,852 stock options upon the LLC Conversion) with the vesting contingent on time and performance milestones being achieved. The Company paid $25,000 and $14,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $50,000 and $39,000 in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, to the Founder under the consulting agreement. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had an outstanding liability to the related party of $9,000 and $0, respectively. 13. Commitments and Contingencies The Company leases office space in Austin, TX under an operating lease that commenced in January 2015. The lease was amended in September 2016 to increase office space and extend the term to December 31, 2020. As provided in the lease amendment, monthly lease payments are subject to annual increases through the lease term. The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the noncancelable term of the lease. The following table summarizes the Company's future minimum lease commitments as of September 30, 2016 (in thousands): 15 Under the terms of the office lease agreement, the Company provided the lessor with a security deposit of $54,000. The lessor is entitled to retain all or any part of the security deposit for payment in the event of any uncured default by the Company under the terms of the lease. The security deposit requirement was reduced by $18,000 in January 2016 and returned to the Company. Pursuant to the terms of the lease amendment, the security deposit requirement was set at $39,000 until the expiration of the lease. Rent expense for each of the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $35,000. Rent expense for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $105,000. 16 Item2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Prospectus dated April 6, 2016 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4), which we refer to as the "Prospectus". This discussion and other parts of this Quarterly Report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk Factors." Overview We are a biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism that we believe will transform the lives of patients with inborn errors of metabolism and cancer. Our engineered human enzymes are designed to reduce the level of specific amino acids in the blood. In inborn errors of metabolism, or IEM, we are seeking to reduce the toxic levels of amino acids in patients. In oncology, we are seeking to reduce amino acid blood levels below the normal range where we believe we will be able to exploit the dependence of certain cancers on specific amino acids. Our lead product candidate, AEB1102, is engineered to degrade the amino acid arginine and is being developed to treat two extremes of arginine metabolism, including arginine excess in patients with Arginase I deficiency, an IEM, as well as some cancers which have shown to have a metabolic dependence on arginine. AEB1102 has demonstrated the ability to reduce blood arginine levels in nonclinical and oncology clinical studies supporting its use as a potential treatment of both Arginase I deficiency and those cancers predicted to be dependent on arginine for survival. We have initiated three Phase 1 clinical trials for AEB1102. In October 2015, we initiated enrollment for a dose escalation trial in patients with advanced solid tumors and intend to initiate expansion arms in different tumor types in 2017. In June 2016, we initiated a clinical trial for the treatment of Arginase I deficiency, a urea cycle disorder that results in elevated circulating levels of the amino acid arginine, with the intent to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of AEB1102 in patients with this IEM. In July 2016, we initiated a clinical trial in patients with relapsed refractory acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, and myelodysplastic syndrome, or MDS, in the United States and Canada. We expect to complete enrollment in the dose escalation in 2017. Since inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts and resources to identifying and developing product candidates, conducting nonclinical studies, initiating and conducting clinical trials, recruiting personnel and raising capital. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our preferred stock, the initial public offering, or IPO, of our common stock, completed on April 12, 2016, and collection of a research grant. In connection with the IPO, we sold 5,481,940 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds of $47.3 million net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs. We have no recorded revenue from product sales and all of our revenue to date has been grant revenue. Since our inception, and through September 30, 2016, we have raised an aggregate of $109.5 million to fund our operations through sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collected $8.1 million in grant proceeds. As of September 30, 2016, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $68.0 million. We have incurred net losses in each year since inception. Our net losses were $16.2 million and $7.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and from general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. As of September 30, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $39.8 million. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses over the next several years. Our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We anticipate that our expenses will increase significantly as we continue our clinical and diagnostic development activities for our lead product candidate, AEB1102; concurrently develop our pipeline product candidates; expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; and hire additional personnel. In addition, we expect to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. 17 Recent Developments In September 2016, we announced the dosing of the first two patients in a Phase 1 trial of AEB1102 for the treatment of patients with Arginase I deficiency. The Phase 1 trial will assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of AEB1102 in patents with this IEM. Enrollment is expected to be completed in 2016 with topline data expected in the first half of 2017. In September 2016, we announced the formation of and appointment of five leading experts to our Scientific Advisory Board to serve as a strategic resource to us by providing scientific and clinical insights to support our pipeline of engineered human enzymes. In August 2016, we announced the dosing of the first patient in a Phase 1 trial of AEB1102 for the treatment of the hematological malignancies AML and MDS. The Phase 1 trial, conducted in the United States and Canada, is designed to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of AEB1102. Enrollment is expected to be completed in 2017. Components of Operating Results Revenue To date, we have recognized revenue solely from a research grant from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas, or CPRIT, and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any of our product candidates. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect will occur for several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development, regulatory approval and eventual commercialization of our product candidates. In June 2015, we entered into a grant agreement with CPRIT, or the Grant Contract, for $19.8 million covering a three year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2017. The grant allows us to receive funds in advance of costs and allowable expenses being incurred. We record the revenue as qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the conditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred or the conditions of the award being met are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed and the conditions of the award are met. On a quarterly basis, we are required to submit a financial reporting package outlining the nature and extent of reimbursable costs paid and requesting reimbursement under the grant. At the end of each period, qualifying costs paid prior to reimbursement result in the recognition of a grant receivable. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs incurred for the discovery and development of our product candidates, most notably, our lead product candidate AEB1102. Since we currently do not have internal laboratory or manufacturing capabilities, we contract with external providers for nonclinical studies, clinical trials and manufacturing services. Our research and development expenses include: costs from acquiring clinical trial materials and services performed for contracted services with our strategic manufacturing partner; fees paid to clinical trial sites, clinical research organizations, contract research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, nonclinical research companies, and academic institutions; employee and consultant-related expenses incurred, which include salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation; and expenses incurred under license agreements with third parties. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are deferred and capitalized. The capitalized amounts are expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. Research and development expenses have historically represented the largest component of our total operating expenses. We plan to increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue the development of our product candidates. 18 Our expenditures on curr ent and future nonclinical and clinical development programs are subject to numerous uncertainties in timing and cost to completion. The duration, costs, and timing of clinical trials and development of our product candidates will depend on a variety of fa ctors, including: the scope, rate of progress, and expenses of our ongoing research activities as well as any additional clinical trials and other research and development activities; future clinical trial results; uncertainties in clinical trial enrollment rates or drop-out or discontinuation rates of patients; potential safety monitoring or other studies requested by regulatory agencies; significant and changing government regulation; and the timing and receipt of regulatory approvals, if any. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA and other regulatory approval is costly and time consuming and the successful development of our product candidates is highly uncertain. The risks and uncertainties associated with our research and development projects are discussed more fully in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report titled "Risk Factors." As a result of these risks and uncertainties, we are unable to determine with any degree of certainty the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects, or if, when, or to what extent we will generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates that obtain regulatory approval. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other related costs, including stock-based compensation, for personnel in executive, finance, accounting, and human resources functions. Other significant costs include legal fees relating to corporate matters and fees for accounting and consulting services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in the future to support our continued research and development activities, potential commercialization of our product candidates and the increased costs of operating as a public company. These increases will likely include increased costs related to the hiring of additional personnel and fees to outside consultants, lawyers and accountants, among other expenses. Additionally, we will continue to incur increased costs associated with being a public company, including expenses related to services associated with maintaining compliance with NASDAQ listing rules and SEC requirements, insurance and investor relations costs. Interest income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Income taxes Since inception in December 2013, through March 10, 2015, we were a Delaware LLC and elected to file as a partnership for federal and state income tax purposes through the year ended December 31, 2014. On March 10, 2015, we converted from a Delaware LLC to a Delaware corporation, and have subsequently filed a corporate income tax return for the year ended December 31, 2015. For tax purposes, we elected to be treated as a corporation under Subchapter C of Chapter 1 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, effective January 1, 2015. We therefore, were subject to federal and state tax expense beginning January 1, 2015. We serve as a holding company for our seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations and file consolidated corporate federal income tax returns. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to our lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. 19 We recognize benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not to be realized upon the ultimate settlement. Our policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to the unrecogniz ed tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. To date, there have been no interest or penalties recognized in relation to the unrecognized tax benefits. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. These estimates form the basis for judgments we make about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are those policies which require the most significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with our most critical accounting policies are those relating to accrued research and development costs and stock-based compensation. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operations included in our Prospectus, except for the determination of the fair value of our common stock, which was used in estimating the fair value of stock-based awards at grant date. Prior to our IPO, our stock was not publicly traded, therefore we estimated the fair value of our common stock as discussed in the Prospectus. Following our IPO, we established a policy of using the closing sale price per share of our common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market on the date of grant for purposes of determining the exercise price per share of our share-based awards to purchase common stock. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: * Percentage not meaningful Grant Revenues .Grant revenues increased by $0.1 million, or 7%, to $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 from $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to additional qualifying costs incurred in connection with the initiation and continuation of grant-related clinical trials for AEB1102. 20 Research and Development Expenses .Research and development expenses increased by $2.3 million , or 7 2%, to $5 .4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 from $3.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Included in the research and development expenses are costs directly associated with our lead product candidate A EB1102, which increased to $3.4 million for the three mont hs ended September 30, 2016 from $2. 0 million for the t hree months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in research and development expen ses was primarily due to: Higher nonclinical expenses, which increased by $0.6 million as a result of additional toxicology studies and analysis costs in preparation for multi-dose clinical trials related to AEB1102; Higher personnel-related expenses, which increased by $0.9 million as a result of increased headcount to expand our internal regulatory and clinical development capabilities in support of the three separate clinical trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors, Arginase I deficiency, and hematological malignancies; Higher clinical development expenses, which increased by $0.6 million as a result of initiating our Phase 1 dose escalation trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors in October 2015, Arginase I deficiency in June 2016, and hematological malignancies in July 2016; and Higher manufacturing and intellectual property-related expenses, which increased by a combined $0.2 million as a result of pipeline development. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.7 million, or 52%, to $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 from $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.2 million in employee compensation, recruiting, and travel expenses, $0.3 million in professional services, audit and legal fees, and $0.2 million in insurance and other administrative costs associated with being a public company. Interest Income .Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The increase in interest income to $72,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 from $5,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to purchased cash equivalents and marketable securities in September 2015 and funds invested from the closing of the IPO in April 2016. Comparison of the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: * Percentage not meaningful Grant Revenues .Grant revenues decreased by $1.1 million, or 25%, to $3.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $4.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease was due to grant revenue recognized in connection with the execution of the Grant Contract in June 2015. Upon execution of the agreement, all accumulated qualified expenditures paid and incurred during the period from June 1, 2014 through June 30, 2015 were recognized as grant revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2015. 21 Research and Development Expenses .Research and development expenses increased by $5.9 million , or 79 %, to $13 . 4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $7.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Included in the research and development expenses are costs directly associated with our lead product candidate AEB1102, which increased to $8.4 million for the nine m onths ended September 30, 2016 from $4 .6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to: Higher nonclinical expenses, which increased by $1.8 million as a result of additional toxicology studies and analysis costs in preparation for multi-dose clinical trials related to AEB1102 and additional research with the University of Texas at Austin, or the University; Higher personnel-related expenses, which increased by $2.1 million as a result of increased headcount to expand our internal regulatory and clinical development capabilities in support of the three separate clinical trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors, Arginase I deficiency, and hematological malignancies; and Higher clinical development expenses, which increased by $2.0 million primarily as a result of initiating our Phase 1 dose escalation trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors in October 2015, Arginase I deficiency in June 2016, and hematological malignancies in July 2016. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $2.0 million, or 46%, to $6.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $4.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.6 million in employee compensation, recruiting, and travel expenses, $1.0 million in professional services, audit and legal fees associated with preparing to be and being a public company and the development of administrative functions, and $0.4 million in insurance and other administrative costs associated with being a public company. Interest Income .Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The increase in interest income to $172,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $11,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to purchased cash equivalents and marketable securities in September 2015 and funds invested from the closing of the IPO in April 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of liquidity We are an early stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history, and due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated operating losses since our inception and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any products. Since our inception and through September 30, 2016, we have funded our operations by raising an aggregate of $109.5 million of gross proceeds from the sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collecting $8.1 million in grant proceeds. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with our strategic manufacturing partner in 2013 to provide convertible preferred shares in exchange for services performed, with the obligation fully satisfied in June 2015. In April 2016, we completed an IPO and sold 5,481,940 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds of $47.3 million net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In June 2015, we entered into the Grant Contract with CPRIT, under which we expect to generate up to $19.8 million in grant funding to fund our development of AEB1102. Through September 30, 2016, we have collected $8.1 million in grant proceeds with $11.7 million available for future collection under the grant contract. As of September 30, 2016, we have a grant receivable outstanding of $1.6 million. Our primary use of cash is to fund the development of our lead product candidate, AEB1102. This includes both the research and development costs and the general and administrative expenses required to support those operations. Since we are an early stage company, we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and we anticipate such losses, in absolute dollar terms, to increase as we continue our clinical trials in AEB1102 and expand our development efforts in our pipeline of nonclinical candidates. As of September 30, 2016, we had available cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $68.0 million. We believe that we have sufficient resources to fund our operations through June 30, 2018 with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. 22 Future funding requirements and operational plan Our operational plan for the near future is to commence and continue clinical trials for our lead product candidate AEB1102 in three separate indications, advanced solid tumors, hematological malignancies, and Arginase I deficiency, and to expand development for at least one additional product candidate. As such, we plan to increase our research and development expenditures for the foreseeable future with nonclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing and an integrated biomarker strategy. We expect our principal expenditures during this time period to include expenses for the following: funding the continuing development of AEB1102; funding the advancement of additional product candidates; and funding working capital, including general operating expenses. We anticipate that we will continue to generate losses into the foreseeable future as we develop our lead product candidates, seek regulatory approval of those candidates and begin to commercialize any approved products. Until such time as we can generate substantial product revenue, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity or debt financings, research grants, collaborations, or other sources. We currently have no debt or debt facility or additional committed capital. To the extent that we raise additional equity, the ownership interest of our shareholders will be diluted. Due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated substantial losses in each period since inception. We have an accumulated deficit of $39.8 million as of September 30, 2016. We expect to incur substantial losses in the future as we expand our research and development capabilities. Based on those plans, we expect our existing cash, cash equivalent, and marketable securities will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements at least through June 30, 2018. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, however, and we could deplete our capital resources sooner than we expect. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Cash used in operating activities Cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $14.5 million and reflected a net loss of $16.2 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $1.0 million for stock-based compensation. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payables of $0.3 million and accrued and other liabilities of $1.3 million driven by an increase in accrued research and development costs, offset by a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets driven by an increase in prepaid manufacturing costs, clinical development costs and insurance premiums. Cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $10.1 million and reflected a net loss of $7.3 million and a decrease in operating assets and liabilities of $3.9 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $0.7 million for services performed by our strategic manufacturing partner for issued convertible preferred stock and $0.3 million for stock-based compensation. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in grant accounts receivable of $4.2 million driven by executing the Grant Contract in June 2015 and prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.5 million related to prepayment of nonclinical studies, offset by an increase of $0.8 million of accounts payable and accrued expenses driven by an increase in manufacturing and nonclinical activities. 23 Cash used in investing activities Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $14.7 million and primarily consisted of $20.4 million in purchases of marketable securities and $0.1 million in purchases of property and equipment offset by $5.8 million in maturities of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $3.5 million and primarily consisted of $3.3 million in purchases of marketable securities and $0.2 million in purchases of property and equipment. Cash provided by financing activities Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $49.4 million, which consisted of $54.8 million from the IPO in April 2016, offset by $3.8 million in underwriting discounts and commissions and $1.7 million in offering costs, and $0.1 million in sale of common stock under our 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $41.9 million resulting from the $44.0 million closing of the Series B financing in March 2015, offset by $0.3 million in Series B offering costs and $1.8 million in IPO offering costs. Contractual Obligations In September 2016, we amended our operating lease agreement for office space in Austin, Texas. The amended lease increased the office space and extended the lease term through December 31, 2020. The total estimated rent payments over the amended term of the lease is approximately $1.2 million. In August 2016, we amended our research agreement with the University. The scope and term under the agreement were extended through August 31, 2017 with a $750,000 increase in the maximum expenditure limitation. As of September 30, 2016, the research agreement, as amended, expires on August 31, 2017 with no remaining payment obligations after such date. Contingent contractual obligations The terms of the Grant Contract require that we pay tiered royalties in the low- to mid-single digit percentages on revenues from sales and license or products or services that are based upon, utilize, are developed from or materially incorporate the intellectual property resulting from the grant-funded activities for AEB1102. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single digit multiple of the grant funds have been repaid to CPRIT in royalties. Such royalties are payable for so long as we have marketing exclusivity or patents covering the applicable product or service (or twelve years from commercial sale of product or service in certain countries if there is no such exclusivity or patent protection). On December 24, 2013, two of our wholly owned subsidiaries, AECase, Inc., or AECase, and AEMase, Inc., or AEMase, entered into license agreements with the University under which the University has granted to AECase and AEMase exclusive, worldwide, sublicenseable licenses. The University granted the AECase license under a patent application relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB3103 product candidate. The University granted the AEMase license under a patent relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB2109 product candidate. The licenses have substantially identical terms. With respect to each product candidate covered by a license with the University, AECase or AEMase could be required to pay the University up to $6.4 million milestone payments based on the achievement of certain development milestones, including clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the majority of which are due upon the achievement of later development milestones, including a $5.0 million payment due on regulatory approval of a product and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a product for a second indication. AECase and AEMase are also required to pay an annual license fee, ranging from $5,000 to $25,000. In addition, AECase and AEMase will pay the University a low single digit royalty on worldwide-net sales of products covered under each license agreement, together with a revenue share on non-royalty consideration received from sublicensees. The rate of the revenue share depends on the date the sublicense agreement is signed. The rate is 30% for agreements signed in 2014, 25% for agreements signed in 2015, 20% for agreements signed in 2016, 15% for agreements signed in 2017 and 6.5% for agreements signed in 2018 and thereafter. The University may terminate the agreement for breach by AECase or AEMase that is not cured within 30 or 60 days of notice (depending on the type of breach) and three or more financial breaches in any nine month period which, even if cured, were not cured within 30 days of notice, or if AECase or AEMase or any of their respective affiliates or sublicensees participates in any proceeding to challenge the licensed patent rights (unless, with respect to sublicensees, AECase or AEMase terminates the applicable sublicense). 24 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined by applicable SEC regulations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements-Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to continue as a Going Concern, which will require management to assess, at each annual and interim reporting period, the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The amendments in ASU 2014-15 do not have any application to an entity's financial statements, but only to disclosure in the related notes. ASU 2014-15 is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016 and early application is permitted. We intend to apply ASU 2014-15 in the first quarter of 2017 and for the annual period ending December 31, 2016. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.Item1. Financial Statements Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 1 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 2 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (Unaudited) (In thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) (In thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. The Company and Basis of Presentation Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. ("Aeglea" or the "Company") is a clinical-stage biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism to treat rare genetic diseases and cancer. The Company was formed as a Limited Liability Company (LLC) in Delaware on December 16, 2013 under the name Aeglea BioTherapeutics Holdings, LLC and was converted from a Delaware LLC to a Delaware corporation (the "LLC Conversion") on March 10, 2015. The Company operates in one segment and has its principal offices in Austin, Texas. Initial Public Offering On April 6, 2016, the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-205001) relating to the initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The IPO closed on April 12, 2016, and 5,481,940 shares of common stock were sold at a public offering price of $10.00 per share, including 481,940 shares of common stock issued upon the partial exercise by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares. The Company received $47.3 million in aggregate cash proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions of $3.8 million and offering costs of $3.7 million incurred by the Company. Immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all shares of outstanding convertible preferred stock were automatically converted, at a ratio of one share of common stock for each share of convertible preferred stock, into 7,172,496 shares of common stock with the related carrying value of $58.3 million reclassified to common stock and additional paid-in capital. In connection with the IPO, the Company amended its Restated Certificate of Incorporation to change the authorized capital stock to 510,000,000 shares of which 500,000,000 shares are designated as common stock and 10,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock, all with a par value of $0.0001 per share. There are no shares of preferred stock outstanding as of March 31, 2017. Liquidity As of March 31, 2017, the Company had working capital of $56.3 million, an accumulated deficit of $51.5 million, and cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $57.9 million. The Company has not generated any product revenues and has not achieved profitable operations. There is no assurance that profitable operations will ever be achieved, and, if achieved, could be sustained on a continuing basis. In addition, development activities, clinical and nonclinical testing, and commercialization of the Company's products will require significant additional financing. The Company is subject to a number of risks similar to other life science companies, including, but not limited to, risks related to the successful discovery and development of product candidates, raising additional capital, development of competing drugs and therapies, protection of proprietary technology and market acceptance of the Company's products. As a result of these and other factors and the related uncertainties, there can be no assurance of the Company's future success. Based upon the Company's current operating plan, the Company believes that it has sufficient resources to fund operations through March 31, 2019 with its existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The Company will need to secure additional funding in the future, in order to carry out all of its planned research and development activities. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing or generate license or product revenue, the lack of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future prospects. Unaudited Interim Financial Information The interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in this document are unaudited. The unaudited interim financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal and recurring nature that are necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial position as of March 31, 2017, and its results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, and cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2017 or for any other future annual or interim period. The December 31, 2016 balance sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally 5 accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). These financial state ments should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 as filed with the SEC. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Such management estimates include those related to accruals of research and development related costs, fair values of preferred and common stock, stock-based compensation, and certain company income tax related items. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents consist of money market funds and debt securities and are stated at fair value. Marketable Securities All investments have been classified as available-for-sale and are carried at estimated fair value as determined based upon quoted market prices or pricing models for similar securities. Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments in debt securities at the time of purchase. The Company may or may not hold securities with stated maturities greater than one year until maturity. All available-for-sale securities are considered available to support current operations and are classified as current assets. Unrealized gains and losses are excluded from earnings and are reported as a component of accumulated comprehensive loss. Realized gains and losses and declines in fair value judged to be other than temporary, if any, on available-for-sale securities are included in other income (expense). The cost of securities sold is based on the specific-identification method. There were no realized gains or losses on marketable securities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. Interest on marketable securities is included in interest income. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The Company's investment policy limits investments to high credit quality securities issued by the U.S. government, U.S. government-sponsored agencies and highly rated banks, subject to certain concentration limits and restrictions on maturities. The Company's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held by financial institutions in the United States that management believes are of high credit quality. Amounts on deposit may at times exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses on its deposits of cash and cash equivalents and its accounts are monitored by management to mitigate risk. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the financial institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents and bond issuers. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Repairs and maintenance that do not extend the life or improve an asset are expensed as incurred. Upon retirement or sale, the cost of disposed assets and their related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from the balance sheet. Any gain or loss is credited or charged to operations. 6 The useful lives of the prop erty and equipment are as follows: Laboratory equipment 5 years Furniture and office equipment 5 years Computer equipment 3 years Software 3 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of remaining lease term or estimated useful life Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are reviewed for indications of possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by comparison of the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent an asset group is not recoverable, and the carrying amount exceeds the projected discounted future cash flows arising from these assets. There were no impairments of long-lived assets for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. Accrued Research and Development Costs The Company records the costs associated with research nonclinical studies, clinical trials, and manufacturing development as incurred. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses, with a substantial portion of the Company's on-going research and development activities conducted by third-party service providers, including contract research and manufacturing organizations. The Company accrues for expenses resulting from obligations under agreements with contract research organizations ("CROs"), contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs"), and other outside service providers for which payment flows do not match the periods over which materials or services are provided to the Company. Accruals are recorded based on estimates of services received and efforts expended pursuant to agreements established with CROs, CMOs, and other outside service providers. These estimates are typically based on contracted amounts applied to the proportion of work performed and determined through analysis with internal personnel and external service providers as to the progress or stage of completion of the services. The Company makes significant judgments and estimates in determining the accrual balance in each reporting period. In the event advance payments are made to a CRO, CMO, or outside service provider, the payments will be recorded as a prepaid asset which will be amortized as the contracted services are performed. As actual costs become known, the Company adjusts its accruals. Inputs, such as the services performed, the number of patients enrolled, or the study duration, may vary from the Company's estimates, resulting in adjustments to research and development expense in future periods. Changes in these estimates that result in material changes to the Company's accruals could materially affect the Company's results of operations. The Company has not experienced any material deviations between accrued and actual research and development expenses. Leases The Company entered into lease agreements for its office and laboratory facilities. The leases are classified as operating leases. The Company records rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases and, accordingly records the difference between cash rent payments and the recognition of rent expense as a deferred rent liability. Incentives granted under the Company's facilities leases, including allowances to fund leasehold improvements, are deferred and are recognized as adjustments to rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company uses fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities and to determine fair value disclosures. The accounting standards define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value, and require disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the principal or most advantageous market in which the Company would transact are considered along with assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions, and risk of nonperformance. 7 The accounting standard for fair value establishes a fair value hierarchy based on three levels of inputs, the first two of which are considered observable and the la st unobservable, that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are as follows: Level1: Observable inputs, such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level3 : Valuations based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and including data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances. Financial instruments carried at fair value include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The carrying amount of accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Revenue Recognition The Company's sole source of revenue is grant revenue related to a $19.8 million research grant received from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas ("CPRIT"), covering a four-year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2018. Grant revenue is recognized when qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the conditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred or the conditions of the award being met are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed and the conditions of the award are met (see Note 5). Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development costs include, but are not limited to, salaries, benefits, travel, share-based compensation, consulting costs, contract research service costs, laboratory supplies, contract manufacturing costs, and costs paid to other third parties that conduct research and development activities on the Company's behalf. Amounts incurred in connection with license agreements are also included in research and development expense. Certain research and development costs incurred were settled contractually by the Company issuing a variable number of the Company's shares determined by dividing the fixed monetary amount of costs incurred by the issuance-date fair value of the issuable shares. The Company recorded research and development expense for these costs and accrued for the fixed monetary amount as an accrued liability as the services were rendered until the amount was settled. In June 2015, the remaining Company obligation to settle these costs with Company shares was converted to a cash-based payment through a contract amendment with the service provider. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are recorded as a prepaid asset and expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to employees based on the estimated grant-date fair values of the awards. The value of the award is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period. The Company recognizes the compensation costs for awards that vest over several years on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Forfeitures are recognized when they occur, which may result in the reversal of compensation costs in subsequent periods as the forfeitures arise. The Company recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to nonemployees at their then-current fair values as services are performed, and are remeasured through the counterparty performance date. 8 Income Taxes Effective January 1, 2015, the Company, for tax purposes, converted from a partnership to a corporation and continues to serve as a holding company for seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company filed a consolidated corporate federal income tax return. The Company and its subsidiaries use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to a lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The Company recognizes benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not be realized upon the ultimate settlement. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive loss is the change in stockholders' equity from transactions and other events and circumstances other than those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. The Company's other comprehensive income (loss) is currently comprised of changes in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. Reclassification Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. These reclassifications did not have an impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements, but expect the impact to be limited to the operating lease agreements for the office and laboratory spaces in Austin, Texas. 3. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables summarize the estimated fair value of the Company's cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized gains and losses (in thousands): 9 The reverse repurchase agreements are settled in cash nightly, and as such are classified as cash equivalents. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company held 22 and nine debt securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position for less than one year. The aggregate fair value of debt securities in an unrealized loss position as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were $41.1 million and $15.8 million, respectively, with no individual securities in a significant unrealized loss position. The Company evaluated its securities for other-than-temporary impairment and considered the decline in market value for the securities to be primarily attributable to current economic and market conditions and would not be required to sell the securities before recovery of the amortized cost basis. Based on this analysis, these marketable securities were not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The following tables summarizes the contractual maturities of the Company's marketable securities at estimated fair value (in thousands): The Company may sell investments at any time for use in current operations even if they have not yet reached maturity. As a result, the Company classifies marketable securities, including securities with maturities beyond twelve months as current assets. 4. Accrued and Other Current Liabilities Accrued and other current liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 5. Grant Revenues In June 2015, the Company entered into a Cancer Research Grant Contract ("Grant Contract") with CPRIT, under which CPRIT awarded a grant not to exceed $19.8 million for use in developing cancer treatments by exploiting the metabolism of cancer cells. The Grant Contract covers a four-year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2018. 10 Upon commercialization of the product, the terms of the Grant Contract require the Company to pay tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digit percentages. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single-digit multiple of the grant funds have been paid to CPRIT in royalties. The Company recognized grant revenue of $982,000 and $859,000 in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, for qualified expenditures under the grant. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had an outstanding grant receivable of $981,000 and $1.2 million, respectively, for the grant expenditures that were paid but had not been reimbursed and deferred revenue of $51,000 and $71,000, respectively, for proceeds received but for which the costs had not been incurred or the conditions of the award had not been met. 6. Stock-Based Compensation The 2016 Equity Incentive Plan ("2016 Plan") provides for an automatic annual increase in the number of shares available for issuance thereunder, to be added on the first day of each fiscal year, beginning on January 1, 2017 and continuing through 2023, up to 4% of the outstanding number of shares of the Company's common stock on the December 31 immediately prior to the date of increase, provided that an increase is only effective if the Company's board of directors either confirmed the automatic increase or approved the increase of a lesser number of shares prior to January 1 of each relevant year . As a result of this provision, on January 1, 2017, an additional 537,233 shares became available for issuance under the 2016 Plan. The Company granted equity awards under its 2015 Equity Incentive Plan ("2015 Plan") until April 2016 when it was terminated as to future awards, although it continues to govern the terms of awards that remain outstanding under the 2015 Plan. In connection with the Company's adoption of the 2016 Plan, all remaining shares available for future issuance under the 2015 Plan were transferred to the 2016 Plan. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company issued an aggregate of 772,800 and 84,417 options, respectively, to purchase common stock under its equity incentive plans for an aggregate fair value of $4,161,205 and $332,000, respectively. Additionally, the Company issued and sold 18,184 shares under the 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("2016 ESPP") for aggregate cash proceeds of $78,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2017. There were no shares issued and sold under the 2016 ESPP during the three months ended March 31, 2016. Total stock-based compensation expense related to the Company's equity incentive plans and 2016 ESPP was as follows (in thousands): 11 The following table summarizes the weighted-average Black-Scholes option pricing model assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options granted under the equity incentive plans and the shares purchasable under the 2016 ESPP during the periods p resented: 7. Fair Value Measurements The Company measures and reports certain financial instruments as assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis. The following tables sets forth the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis based on the three-tier fair value hierarchy (in thousands): The Company measures the fair value of money market funds on quoted prices in active markets for identical asset or liabilities. The Level 2 assets include reverse repurchase agreements and U.S. government and agency securities and are valued based on quoted prices for similar assets in active markets and inputs other than quoted prices that are derived from observable market data. The Company evaluates transfers between levels at the end of each reporting period. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the periods presented. 8. Net Loss Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders The Company computed net loss attributable per common stockholder using the two-class method required for participating securities through the date of the IPO. Immediately prior to the IPO, all outstanding convertible preferred stock was converted into common stock (see Note 1). The Company considered convertible preferred stock to be participating securities. In the event that the Company had paid out distributions, holders of convertible preferred stock would have participated in the distribution. 12 The two-class method is an earnings (loss) allocation method under whi ch earnings (loss) per share is calculated for common stock and participating security considering a participating security's rights to undistributed earnings (loss) as if all such earnings (loss) had been distributed during the period. The convertible pre ferred stock did not have an obligation to fund losses and are therefore excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per share. The Company's SeriesA and B convertible preferred stock were entitled to receive noncumulative dividends and in preference to any dividends on shares of the Company's common stock. Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is computed by dividing net loss attributable to common stock by the weighted-average number of common stock outstanding during the period. For periods in which the Company generated a net loss, the Company does not include the potential impact of dilutive securities in diluted net loss per share, as the impact of these items is anti-dilutive. The following weighted-average equity instruments were excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented: 9. Research and License Agreements University Research Agreement In December 2013, the Company entered into a research agreement with the University of Texas at Austin (the "University"). Under the terms of this research agreement, the Company engaged the University to perform certain nonclinical research activities related to the systemic depletion of amino acids for cancer therapy and rare disease therapy. Under the research agreement, the Company was required to pay the University an annual amount not to exceed $386,000 during the one year term of the agreement from the effective date. Pursuant to subsequent amendments to the research agreement, the term and maximum expenditure limitation were extended and increased through August 31, 2017 for a combined $1.8 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company paid $188,000 and $457,000, respectively, the University under the research agreement. License Agreements In December 2013, two of the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries, AECase, Inc. ("AECase") and AEMase, Inc. ("AEMase"), entered into license agreements with the University under which the University granted to AECase and AEMase exclusive, worldwide, sublicenseable licenses. The University granted the AECase license under a patent application relating to the right to use technology related to the Company's AEB3103 product candidate. The University granted the AEMase license under a patent relating to the right to use technology related to the Company's AEB2109 product candidate. In January 2017, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Patent License Agreement (the "Restated License") with the University which consolidated the two license agreements, revised certain obligations, and licensed additional patent applications and invention disclosures to the Company. Pursuant to the terms of the Restated License, the Company may be required to pay the University up to $6.4 million milestone payments based on the achievement of certain development milestones, including clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the majority of which are due upon the achievement of later development milestones, including a $5.0 million payment due on regulatory approval of a product and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a product for a second indication. In addition, the Company is required to pay the University a low single-digit royalty on worldwide-net sales of products covered under the Restated License, together with a revenue share on non-royalty consideration received from sublicensees. The rate of the revenue share ranges from 6.5% to 25% depending on the date the sublicense agreement is signed. 13 10 . Related Party Transactions The spouse of the Company's Chief Executive Officer previously provided consulting services to the Company. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, there were no payments made to the spouse in consulting fees. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company paid $129,000 to the spouse in consulting fees, which were recorded in Research and Development expenses. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had no outstanding liability to the related party. One of the founders, a non-employee member of the Company's Board of Directors, entered into a consulting agreement with the Company in 2014 under which the founder would receive $50,000 per year for a fixed number of hours of consulting and advisory services and receive equity incentive shares, which converted into 43,290 restricted stock awards and 13,852 stock options upon the LLC Conversion, with the vesting contingent on time and performance milestones being achieved. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, there were no payments made to the Founder under the consulting agreement. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company paid $13,000 to the Founder under the consulting agreement. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had no outstanding liability to the related party. 11. Commitments and Contingencies The Company leases office space in Austin, Texas under an operating lease that commenced in January 2015. The lease was amended in September 2016 to increase office space and extend the term to December 31, 2020. Under the terms of the amended office lease agreement, the security deposit requirement was set at $39,000 until the expiration of the lease. The lessor is entitled to retain all or any part of the security deposit for payment in the event of any uncured default by the Company under the terms of the lease. In February 2017, the Company entered into a lease agreement for laboratory facilities in Austin, Texas under an operating lease, which will expire in December 2017. The following table summarizes the Company's future minimum lease commitments as of March 31, 2017 (in thousands): For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company incurred $76,000 and $35,000, respectively, in rent expense under noncancellable operating leases. 12. Subsequent Events On April 21, 2017, the Company appointed a member of its board of directors as interim chief medical officer ("interim CMO"). Under the employment agreement, the interim CMO will receive a salary of $27,000 per month and an option to purchase 24,000 shares of common stock, subject to a service condition. On May 1, 2017, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 for the potential offering, issuance and sale by the Company of up to $150 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants to purchase common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, subscription rights to purchase common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, and units consisting of all or some of these securities. The shelf registration statement has not been declared effective by the SEC. Up to $20 million of the maximum aggregate offering price of $150 million under the registration statement, if declared effective by the SEC, may be issued and sold pursuant to an "at-the-market" offering for sales of the Company's common stock pursuant to a sales agreement between the Company and JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC. 14 Item2 . MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the SEC on March 23, 2017. This discussion and other parts of this Quarterly Report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk Factors." Overview We are a biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism to treat rare genetic diseases and cancer. Our engineered human enzymes are designed to degrade specific amino acids in the blood to target these diseases. In inborn errors of metabolism, or IEM, a subset of rare genetic diseases, we are seeking to reduce the toxic levels of amino acids in patients to the normal range. In oncology, we are seeking to reduce amino acid blood levels below the normal range where we believe we will be able to exploit the dependence of certain cancers on specific amino acids. Our lead product candidate, AEB1102, is engineered to degrade the amino acid arginine and is being developed to treat two extremes of arginine metabolism, including arginine excess in patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency, an IEM, as well as some cancers which have been shown to have a metabolic dependence on arginine. AEB1102 has demonstrated clinical proof-of-mechanism in both scenarios. In a Phase 1 clinical trial for the treatment of patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency, a dose-proportional reduction in plasma arginine levels was observed in two patients. A reduction in blood arginine levels was also observed in Phase 1 clinical trials for the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors and the hematological malignancies relapsed refractory acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, and myelodysplastic syndrome, or MDS. These preliminary results support its potential use as a therapeutic of both Arginase 1 Deficiency and certain cancers associated with abnormal amino acid metabolism. We are conducting three clinical trials for AEB1102, consisting of one Phase 1/2 clinical trial for the treatment of Arginase 1 Deficiency and two Phase 1 clinical trials for the treatment of certain cancers. Arginase 1 Deficiency . Following completion of dosing for the first two adult patients in our Phase 1 clinical trial for the treatment of patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency, we submitted a protocol amendment in November 2016 to broaden the scope of our Phase 1 trial into a Phase 1/2 trial. The amended protocol includes dosing of pediatric patients (two and older) and weekly repeat dosing, with the intent to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and clinical response of AEB1102 in patients with this IEM. In the first quarter of 2017, we received Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval for the Phase 1/2 protocol for the treatment of patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency at multiple IRBs. In March 2017, we received an information request from the FDA which included comments and recommendations on the protocol amendment and a request for supporting documents based on their review of our completed toxicology studies, our dose escalation plan and our information to support the inclusion of pediatric patients. As recommended by the FDA, we replied with supporting information and completed a follow-up meeting. At this time, we believe our Phase 1/2 protocol provides an appropriate path to evaluate the safety and tolerability of AEB1102 in pediatric patients, and pending FDA feedback, we plan to initiate dosing in pediatric patients in the middle of 2017. In March 2017, we announced results from the first two adult patients in our Phase 1 clinical trial for the treatment of Arginase 1 Deficiency at the 2017 American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics Annual Clinical Genetics Meeting, or ACMG Annual Meeting. We intend to continue enrollment of adult patients and plan to dose additional adult patients in the middle of 2017. Topline data from this trial is expected in the first half of 2018. 15 Advanced Solid Tumors . In Oc tober 2015, we initiated enrollment for a Phase 1 dose escalation trial for cancer patients with advanced solid tumors. In this ongoing trial, AEB1102 i s well-tolerated and patients have demonstrated a reduction in blood arginine levels, providing proof-of -mechanism. We expect to announce results of this Phase 1 dose escalation in patients with advanced solid tumors and anticipate initiating expansion arms in specific solid tumor types, potentially in combination with existing or emerging standards of care, in the fourth quarter of 2017 or the first quarter of 2018. Hematological Malignancies . In July 2016, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with the hematological malignancies AML and MDS in the United States and Canada. As demonstrated in the trial for patients with advanced solid tumors, the first three cohorts of this trial have demonstrated proof-of-mechanism. We expect to announce results of the Phase 1 dose escalation trial in patients with AML and MDS in the fourth quarter of 2017 or the first quarter of 2018. We are also building a pipeline of additional product candidates targeting key amino acids and other metabolites, including homocystine, a target for another IEM as well as cysteine, and its oxidized form cystine, and methionine, for cancer indications. Since inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts and resources to identifying and developing product candidates, conducting nonclinical studies, initiating and conducting clinical trials, recruiting personnel and raising capital. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our preferred stock, the initial public offering, or IPO, of our common stock, completed on April 12, 2016, and collection of a research grant. We have not recorded revenue from product sales and all of our revenue to date has been grant revenue. Since our inception, and through March 31, 2017, we have raised an aggregate of $109.7 million to fund our operations through sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collected $10.8 million in grant proceeds. As of March 31, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $57.9 million. We have incurred net losses in each year since inception. Our net losses were $6.2 million and $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and from general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. As of March 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $51.5 million. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses over the next several years. Our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We anticipate that our expenses will increase significantly as we continue our clinical and diagnostic development activities for our lead product candidate, AEB1102; concurrently develop our pipeline product candidates; expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; and hire additional personnel. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. Recent Developments In April 2017, we presented preclinical data at the 2017 American Association of Cancer Research (AACR) Annual Meeting, which demonstrated that reducing systemic arginine with AEB1102 in preclinical models did not suppress the immune response induced by anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1, and exerted an additive anti-tumor and synergistic survival benefit. Components of Operating Results Revenue To date, we have recognized revenue solely from a research grant from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas, or CPRIT, and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any of our product candidates. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect will occur for several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development, regulatory approval and eventual commercialization of our product candidates. In June 2015, we entered into a grant agreement with CPRIT, or the Grant Contract, for $19.8 million for use in developing cancer treatments by exploiting the metabolism of cancer cells. The Grant Contract covers a four year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2018. The grant allows us to receive funds in advance of costs and allowable expenses being incurred. We record the revenue as qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the conditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred or the conditions of the award being met are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed and the conditions of the award are met. 16 On a quarterly basis, we are required to submit a financial reporting package outlining the nature and extent of reimbursable costs paid and requesting reimbursement under the grant. At th e end of each period, qualifying costs paid prior to reimbursement result in the recognition of a grant receivable. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs incurred for the discovery and development of our product candidates, most notably, our lead product candidate AEB1102. Since we currently do not have manufacturing capabilities and did not have an internal research laboratory before February 2017, we contracted with external providers for nonclinical studies, clinical trials and manufacturing services. Our research and development expenses include: costs from acquiring clinical trial materials and services performed for contracted services with a contract manufacturing organization; fees paid to clinical trial sites, clinical research organizations, contract research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, nonclinical research companies, and academic institutions; employee and consultant-related expenses incurred, which include salaries, benefits, travel and share-based compensation; and expenses incurred under license agreements with third parties. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are deferred and capitalized. The capitalized amounts are expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. Research and development expenses have historically represented the largest component of our total operating expenses. We plan to increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue the development of our product candidates. Our expenditures on current and future nonclinical and clinical development programs are subject to numerous uncertainties in timing and cost to completion. The duration, costs, and timing of clinical trials and development of our product candidates will depend on a variety of factors, including: the scope, rate of progress, and expenses of our ongoing research activities as well as any additional clinical trials and other research and development activities; future clinical trial results; uncertainties in clinical trial enrollment rates or drop-out or discontinuation rates of patients; potential safety monitoring or other studies requested by regulatory agencies; significant and changing government regulation; and the timing and receipt of regulatory approvals, if any. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA and other regulatory approval is costly and time consuming and the successful development of our product candidates is highly uncertain. The risks and uncertainties associated with our research and development projects are discussed more fully in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report titled "Risk Factors." As a result of these risks and uncertainties, we are unable to determine with any degree of certainty the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects, or if, when, or to what extent we will generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates that obtain regulatory approval. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other related costs, including stock-based compensation, for personnel in executive, finance, accounting, operations, and human resources functions. Other significant costs include legal fees relating to corporate matters and fees for insurance, accounting, consulting, and recruiting services. 17 We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in the future to support our continued research and development activ ities, and the potential commercializ ation of our product candidates . These increases will likely include higher costs related to the hiring of additional personnel and fees to outside consultants, lawyers and accountants, among other expenses. Additionall y, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased costs associated with being a public company, including expenses related to services associated with maintaining compliance with NASDAQ listing rules and SEC requirements, insurance and investor relations costs. Interest income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Income taxes We serve as a holding company for our seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations and file consolidated corporate federal income tax returns. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to our lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. We recognize benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not to be realized upon the ultimate settlement. Our policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. These estimates form the basis for judgments we make about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are those policies which require the most significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with our most critical accounting policies are those relating to accrued research and development costs and stock-based compensation. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. 18 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: * Percentage not meaningful Grant Revenues .Grant revenues increased by $0.1 million, or 14%, to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 from $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The increase was primarily due to additional research and development costs associated with the clinical trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors and the hematological malignancies AML and MDS, for which we received grant revenue pursuant to the Grant Contract. Research and Development Expenses .Research and development expenses increased by $1.3 million, or 38%, to $4.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 from $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The change in research and development expenses was primarily due to: Higher personnel-related expenses, which increased by $0.8 million as a result of additional employee headcount to expand our internal regulatory, research laboratory, and clinical development capabilities; Higher manufacturing expenses, which increased by $0.6 million as a result of scaling-up the development and clinical manufacturing for AEB1102 and manufacturing activities for pipeline development; Higher clinical development expenses, which increased by $0.3 million as a result of initiating our Phase 1 dose escalation trial for AEB1102 in patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency in June 2016 and our Phase 1 trial for AEB1102 in patients with hematological malignancies in July 2016; Higher intellectual property-related expenses, which increased by $0.2 million as a result of amending and consolidating license agreements with the University of Texas at Austin for our product candidates AEB3103 and AEB2109; and Lower nonclinical expenses, which decreased by $0.6 million as a result of completing toxicology studies in 2016 for the preparation of multi-dose clinical trials related to AEB1102. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.5 million, or 29%, to $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 from $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.4 million in employee compensation, recruiting, and travel expenses and $0.1 million in insurance and other administrative costs associated with being a public company. Interest Income .Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The increase in interest income to $95,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 from $26,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to the investment of additional funds received as a result of our IPO in April 2016. 19 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of liquidity We are a clinical-stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history, and due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated operating losses since our inception and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any products. Since our inception and through March 31, 2017, we have funded our operations by raising an aggregate of $109.7 million of gross proceeds from the sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collecting $10.8 million in grant proceeds. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with a contract manufacturing organization, or CMO, in 2013 whereby we issued convertible preferred shares to the CMO in exchange for services performed, with the obligation fully satisfied in June 2015. In April 2016, we completed our IPO and sold 5,481,940 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds of $47.3 million net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In June 2015, we entered into the Grant Contract with CPRIT, under which we expect to generate up to $19.8 million in grant funding to fund our development of AEB1102. Through March 31, 2017, we have collected $10.8 million in grant proceeds with $9.0 million available for future collection under the grant contract. As of March 31, 2017, we have a grant receivable outstanding of $1.0 million. Our primary use of cash is to fund the development of our lead product candidate, AEB1102. This includes both the research and development costs and the general and administrative expenses required to support those operations. Since we are a clinical-stage biotechnology company, we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and we anticipate such losses, in absolute dollar terms, to increase as we continue our clinical trials in AEB1102 and expand our development efforts in our pipeline of nonclinical candidates. As of March 31, 2017, we had available cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $57.9 million. Under our current operating plan, we believe that we have sufficient resources to fund our operations through March 31, 2019 with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Future funding requirements and operational plan Our operational plan for the near future is to continue clinical trials for our lead product candidate AEB1102 in three separate indications: Arginase 1 Deficiency, advanced solid tumors, and the hematological malignancies AML and MDS, and to expand development for at least one additional product candidate. As such, we plan to increase our research and development expenditures for the foreseeable future with nonclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing and an integrated biomarker strategy. We expect our principal expenditures during this time period to include expenses for the following: funding the continuing development of AEB1102; funding the advancement of additional product candidates; and funding working capital, including general operating expenses. We anticipate that we will continue to generate losses into the foreseeable future as we develop our product candidates, seek regulatory approval of those candidates and begin to commercialize any approved products. Until such time as we can generate substantial product revenue, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity or debt financings, research grants, collaborations, or other sources. We currently have no debt or debt facility or additional committed capital. To the extent that we raise additional equity, the ownership interest of our shareholders will be diluted. Due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated substantial losses in each period since inception. We have an accumulated deficit of $51.5 million as of March 31, 2017. We expect to incur substantial losses in the future as we expand our research and development capabilities. Based on those plans, we expect that our existing cash, cash equivalent, and marketable securities will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements at least through March 31, 2019. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, however, and we could deplete our capital resources sooner than we expect. 20 Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Cash used in operating activities Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $5.4 million and reflected a net loss of $6.2 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $0.4 million for stock-based compensation and by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.4 million. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to the collection and recognition of $1.2 million and $1.0 million, respectively, in grant accounts receivable under the Grant Contract during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and increased manufacturing and clinical activities resulting in decreased prepaid expenses of $0.2 million. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $4.0 million and reflected a net loss of $4.5 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $0.1 million for stock-based compensation and by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.4 million. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in nonclinical and clinical activities in preparation for multi-dose clinical trials and conducting our Phase 1 dose escalation trial for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors which resulted in increased accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $0.7 million and decreased prepaid expenses of $0.4 million. Cash used in investing activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $25.6 million and primarily consisted of $32.8 million in purchases of marketable securities and $0.3 million in purchases of property and equipment to develop an internal research laboratory, offset by $7.4 million in maturities of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $1.2 million and consisted of $3.0 million in purchases of marketable securities offset by $1.8 million in maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by financing activities Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $0.1 million and was a result of the sale of common stock under our 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the exercise of stock options. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $0.1 million from offering cost payments related to our IPO of our common stock. Contractual Obligations In September 2016, we amended our operating lease agreement for office space in Austin, Texas. The amended lease increased the office space and extended the lease term through December 31, 2020. The total estimated rent payments over the remaining term of the lease as of March 31, 2017 is approximately $1.1 million. In February 2017, we entered into a separate lease agreement for laboratory space in Austin, Texas, which will expire on December 31, 2017. The total estimated rent payments over the remaining term of the lease as of March 31, 2017 is approximately $52,000. 21 In August 2016, we amended our research agreement with the University. The scope and term under the agreement were extended through August 31, 2017 with a $750,000 increase in the maximum expenditure limitation. As of March 31, 2017 , the research agreement, as amended, expires on August 31, 2017 with no remaining payment obligations after such date. Contingent contractual obligations The terms of the Grant Contract require that we pay CPRIT tiered royalties in the low- to mid-single digit percentages on revenues from sales and license or products or services that are based upon, utilize, are developed from or materially incorporate the intellectual property resulting from the grant-funded activities for AEB1102. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single digit multiple of the grant funds have been repaid to CPRIT in royalties. Such royalties are payable for so long as we have marketing exclusivity or patents covering the applicable product or service (or twelve years from commercial sale of product or service in certain countries if there is no such exclusivity or patent protection). On December 24, 2013, two of our wholly owned subsidiaries, AECase, Inc., or AECase, and AEMase, Inc., or AEMase, entered into license agreements with the University under which the University granted to AECase and AEMase exclusive, worldwide, sublicenseable licenses. The University granted to AECase a license under a patent application relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB3103 product candidate. The University granted to AEMase a license under a patent relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB2109 product candidate. On January 31, 2017, we entered into an Amended and Restated Patent License Agreement, or the Restated License, with the University which consolidated the two license agreements dated December 24, 2013, revised certain obligations, and licensed additional patent applications and invention disclosures to Aeglea. With respect to each product candidate covered by the Restated License, we could be required to pay the University up to $6.4 million in milestone payments based on the achievement of certain development milestones, including clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the majority of which are due upon the achievement of later development milestones, including a $5.0 million payment due on regulatory approval of a product and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a product for a second indication. In addition, we are required to pay the University a low single digit royalty on worldwide-net sales of products covered under the Restated License, together with a revenue share on non-royalty consideration received from sublicensees. The rate of the revenue share ranges from 6.5% to 25% depending on the date the sublicense agreement is signed. The University may terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, including for a breach by us that is not cured within 30 or 60 days of notice (depending on the type of breach), or if we or any of our affiliates or sublicensees participate in any proceeding to challenge the licensed patent rights (unless, with respect to sublicensees, we terminate the applicable sublicense). Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Through March 31, 2017, we do not have any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined by applicable SEC regulations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements, but expect the impact to be limited to the operating lease agreement for office and laboratory space in Austin, Texas.Item1. Financial Statements Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 1 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 2 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (Unaudited) (In thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) (In thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. The Company and Basis of Presentation Aeglea BioTherapeutics, Inc. ("Aeglea" or the "Company") is a clinical-stage biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism to treat rare genetic diseases and cancer. The Company was formed as a Limited Liability Company (LLC) in Delaware on December 16, 2013 under the name Aeglea BioTherapeutics Holdings, LLC and was converted from a Delaware LLC to a Delaware corporation (the "LLC Conversion") on March 10, 2015. The Company operates in one segment and has its principal offices in Austin, Texas. Stock Offerings Initial Public Offering In April 2016, the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-205001) relating to the initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The IPO closed on April 12, 2016, and 5,481,940 shares of common stock were sold at a public offering price of $10.00 per share, including 481,940 shares of common stock issued upon the partial exercise by the underwriters of their option to purchase additional shares. The Company received $47.3 million in aggregate cash proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions of $3.8 million and offering costs of $3.7 million incurred by the Company. Immediately prior to the closing of the IPO, all shares of outstanding convertible preferred stock were automatically converted, at a ratio of one share of common stock for each share of convertible preferred stock, into 7,172,496 shares of common stock with the related carrying value of $58.3 million reclassified to common stock and additional paid-in capital. In connection with the IPO, the Company amended its Restated Certificate of Incorporation to change the authorized capital stock to 510,000,000 shares of which 500,000,000 shares are designated as common stock and 10,000,000 shares are designated as preferred stock, all with a par value of $0.0001 per share. There are no shares of preferred stock outstanding as of June 30, 2017. Follow-on Public Offering In June 2017, the Company issued and sold 3,000,000 shares of common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 at a public offering price of $4.10 per share. The net proceeds to the Company from this public offering was approximately $11.4 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $615,000 and offering costs of $306,000. As of June 30, 2017, the Company had $186,000 in offering costs recorded as an outstanding liability on the balance sheet. Liquidity As of June 30, 2017, the Company had working capital of $61.8 million, an accumulated deficit of $58.2 million, and cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $63.4 million. The Company has not generated any product revenues and has not achieved profitable operations. There is no assurance that profitable operations will ever be achieved, and, if achieved, could be sustained on a continuing basis. In addition, development activities, clinical and nonclinical testing, and commercialization of the Company's products will require significant additional financing. The Company is subject to a number of risks similar to other life science companies, including, but not limited to, risks related to the successful discovery and development of product candidates, raising additional capital, development of competing drugs and therapies, protection of proprietary technology and market acceptance of the Company's products. As a result of these and other factors and the related uncertainties, there can be no assurance of the Company's future success. Based upon the Company's current operating plan, the Company believes that it has sufficient resources to fund operations through September 30, 2019 with its existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The Company will need to secure additional funding in the future, in order to carry out all of its planned research and development activities. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing or generate license or product revenue, the lack of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future prospects. 5 Unaudited Interim Financial Information The interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in this document are unaudited. The unaudited interim financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal and recurring nature that are necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial position as of June 30, 2017, and its results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, and cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. The results of operations for six months ended June 30, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2017 or for any other future annual or interim period. The December 31, 2016 balance sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 as filed with the SEC. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Such management estimates include those related to accruals of research and development related costs, fair values of preferred and common stock, stock-based compensation, and certain company income tax related items. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents consist of money market funds and debt securities and are stated at fair value. Marketable Securities All investments have been classified as available-for-sale and are carried at estimated fair value as determined based upon quoted market prices or pricing models for similar securities. Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments in debt securities at the time of purchase. The Company may or may not hold securities with stated maturities greater than one year until maturity. All available-for-sale securities are considered available to support current operations and are classified as current assets. Unrealized gains and losses are excluded from earnings and are reported as a component of accumulated comprehensive loss. Realized gains and losses and declines in fair value judged to be other than temporary, if any, on available-for-sale securities are included in other income (expense). The cost of securities sold is based on the specific-identification method. There were no realized gains or losses on marketable securities for the six months ended June30, 2017 . Interest on marketable securities is included in interest income. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The Company's investment policy limits investments to high credit quality securities issued by the U.S. government, U.S. government-sponsored agencies and highly rated banks, subject to certain concentration limits and restrictions on maturities. The Company's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held by financial institutions in the United States that management believes are of high credit quality. Amounts on deposit may at times exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses on its deposits of cash and cash equivalents and its accounts are monitored by management to mitigate risk. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the financial institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents and bond issuers. 6 Property and Equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Repairs and maintenance that do not extend the life or improve an asset are expensed as incurred. Upon retirement or sale, the cost of disposed assets and their related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from the balance sheet. Any gain or loss is credited or charged to operations. The useful lives of the property and equipment are as follows: Laboratory equipment 5 years Furniture and office equipment 5 years Computer equipment 3 years Software 3 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of remaining lease term or estimated useful life Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are reviewed for indications of possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by comparison of the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent an asset group is not recoverable, and the carrying amount exceeds the projected discounted future cash flows arising from these assets. There were no impairments of long-lived assets for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Accrued Research and Development Costs The Company records the costs associated with research nonclinical studies, clinical trials, and manufacturing development as incurred. These costs are a significant component of the Company's research and development expenses, with a substantial portion of the Company's on-going research and development activities conducted by third-party service providers, including contract research and manufacturing organizations. The Company accrues for expenses resulting from obligations under agreements with contract research organizations ("CROs"), contract manufacturing organizations ("CMOs"), and other outside service providers for which payment flows do not match the periods over which materials or services are provided to the Company. Accruals are recorded based on estimates of services received and efforts expended pursuant to agreements established with CROs, CMOs, and other outside service providers. These estimates are typically based on contracted amounts applied to the proportion of work performed and determined through analysis with internal personnel and external service providers as to the progress or stage of completion of the services. The Company makes significant judgments and estimates in determining the accrual balance in each reporting period. In the event advance payments are made to a CRO, CMO, or outside service provider, the payments will be recorded as a prepaid asset which will be amortized as the contracted services are performed. As actual costs become known, the Company adjusts its accruals. Inputs, such as the services performed, the number of patients enrolled, or the study duration, may vary from the Company's estimates, resulting in adjustments to research and development expense in future periods. Changes in these estimates that result in material changes to the Company's accruals could materially affect the Company's results of operations. The Company has not experienced any material deviations between accrued and actual research and development expenses. Leases The Company entered into lease agreements for its office and laboratory facilities. The leases are classified as operating leases. The Company records rent expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases and, accordingly records the difference between cash rent payments and the recognition of rent expense as a deferred rent liability. Incentives granted under the Company's facilities leases, including allowances to fund leasehold improvements, are deferred and are recognized as adjustments to rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 7 Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company uses fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities and to determine fair value disclosures. The accounting standards define fair value, establish a framework for measuring fair value, and require disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required to be recorded at fair value, the principal or most advantageous market in which the Company would transact are considered along with assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions, and risk of nonperformance. The accounting standard for fair value establishes a fair value hierarchy based on three levels of inputs, the first two of which are considered observable and the last unobservable, that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument's categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are as follows: Level1: Observable inputs, such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level3: Valuations based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology and including data about assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available under the circumstances. Financial instruments carried at fair value include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. The carrying amount of accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Revenue Recognition The Company's sole source of revenue is grant revenue related to a $19.8 million research grant received from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas ("CPRIT"), covering a four-year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2018. Grant revenue is recognized when qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the conditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred or the conditions of the award being met are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed and the conditions of the award are met (see Note 5). Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development costs include, but are not limited to, salaries, benefits, travel, share-based compensation, consulting costs, contract research service costs, laboratory supplies, contract manufacturing costs, and costs paid to other third parties that conduct research and development activities on the Company's behalf. Amounts incurred in connection with license agreements are also included in research and development expense. Certain research and development costs incurred were settled contractually by the Company issuing a variable number of the Company's shares determined by dividing the fixed monetary amount of costs incurred by the issuance-date fair value of the issuable shares. The Company recorded research and development expense for these costs and accrued for the fixed monetary amount as an accrued liability as the services were rendered until the amount was settled. In June 2015, the remaining Company obligation to settle these costs with Company shares was converted to a cash-based payment through a contract amendment with the service provider. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are recorded as a prepaid asset and expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. 8 Stock-Based Compensation The Company recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to employees based on the estimated grant-date fair values of the awards. The value of the award is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period. The Company recognizes the compensation costs for awards that vest over several years on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Forfeitures are recognized when they occur, which may result in the reversal of compensation costs in subsequent periods as the forfeitures arise. The Company recognizes the cost of stock-based awards granted to nonemployees at their then-current fair values as services are performed, and are remeasured through the counterparty performance date. Income Taxes Effective January 1, 2015, the Company, for tax purposes, converted from a partnership to a corporation and continues to serve as a holding company for seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company filed a consolidated corporate federal income tax return. The Company and its subsidiaries use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to a lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The Company recognizes benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not be realized upon the ultimate settlement. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive loss is the change in stockholders' equity from transactions and other events and circumstances other than those resulting from investments by stockholders and distributions to stockholders. The Company's other comprehensive income (loss) is currently comprised of changes in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. Reclassification Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. These reclassifications did not have an impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements, but expect the impact to be limited to the operating lease agreements for the office and laboratory spaces in Austin, Texas. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation (Topic 718) , which provides clarity and reduces both the diversity in practice and cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments in this update provide guidance on which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, and the amendment should be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. This amendment does not have any impact on the consolidated financial statements as no modifications were made to share-based payment awards during the six months ended June 30, 2017. 9 3. Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities The following tables summarize the estimated fair value of the Company's cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized gains and losses (in thousands): The reverse repurchase agreements are settled in cash nightly, and as such are classified as cash equivalents. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company held 19 and nine debt securities, respectively, that were in an unrealized loss position for less than one year. The aggregate fair value of debt securities in an unrealized loss position as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were $33.5 million and $15.8 million, respectively, with no individual securities in a significant unrealized loss position. The Company evaluated its securities for other-than-temporary impairment and considered the decline in market value for the securities to be primarily attributable to current economic and market conditions and would not be required to sell the securities before recovery of the amortized cost basis. Based on this analysis, these marketable securities were not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The following tables summarizes the contractual maturities of the Company's marketable securities at estimated fair value (in thousands): The Company may sell investments at any time for use in current operations even if they have not yet reached maturity. As a result, the Company classifies marketable securities, including securities with maturities beyond twelve months as current assets. 10 4.Accrued and Other Current Liabilities Accrued and other current liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 5. Grant Revenues In June 2015, the Company entered into a Cancer Research Grant Contract ("Grant Contract") with CPRIT, under which CPRIT awarded a grant not to exceed $19.8 million for use in developing cancer treatments by exploiting the metabolism of cancer cells. The Grant Contract covers a four-year period from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2018. Upon commercialization of the product, the terms of the Grant Contract require the Company to pay tiered royalties in the low to mid-single digit percentages. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single-digit multiple of the grant funds have been paid to CPRIT as royalties. The Company recognized grant revenue of $1.5 million and $1.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $2.5 million and $2.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, for qualified expenditures under the grant. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had an outstanding grant receivable of $1.2 million for the grant expenditures that were paid but had not been reimbursed and deferred revenue of $71,000 for proceeds received but for which the costs had not been incurred or the conditions of the award had not been met. 6. Stock-Based Compensation The 2016 Equity Incentive Plan ("2016 Plan") provides for an automatic annual increase in the number of shares available for issuance thereunder, to be added on the first day of each fiscal year, beginning on January 1, 2017 and continuing through 2023, up to 4% of the outstanding number of shares of the Company's common stock on the December 31 immediately prior to the date of increase, provided that an increase is only effective if the Company's board of directors either confirmed the automatic increase or approved the increase of a lesser number of shares prior to January 1 of each relevant year . As a result of this provision, on January 1, 2017, an additional 537,233 shares became available for issuance under the 2016 Plan. The Company granted equity awards under its 2015 Equity Incentive Plan ("2015 Plan") until April 2016 when it was terminated as to future awards, although it continues to govern the terms of awards that remain outstanding under the 2015 Plan. In connection with the Company's adoption of the 2016 Plan, all remaining shares available for future issuance under the 2015 Plan were transferred to the 2016 Plan. During the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company issued an aggregate of 244,100 and 635,800 options to purchase common stock, respectively, under its equity incentive plans for an aggregate fair value of $713,000 and $3.4 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company issued an aggregate of 1,016,900 and 720,217 options to purchase common stock, respectively, under its equity incentive plans for an aggregate fair value of $4.9 million and $3.7 million, respectively. There were no shares issued and sold under the Company's 2016 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("2016 ESPP") during the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. The Company issued and sold 18,184 shares under the 2016 ESPP for aggregate cash proceeds of $78,000 during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and did not issue or sell any shares during the six months ended June 30, 2016. 11 Total stock-based compensation expense related to the Company's equity incentive plans and 2016 ESPP was as follows (in thousands): The following table summarizes the weighted-average Black-Scholes option pricing model assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options granted under the equity incentive plans and the shares purchasable under the 2016 ESPP during the periods presented: 7. Fair Value Measurements The Company measures and reports certain financial instruments as assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis. The following tables sets forth the fair value of the Company's financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis based on the three-tier fair value hierarchy (in thousands): The Company measures the fair value of money market funds on quoted prices in active markets for identical asset or liabilities. The Level 2 assets include reverse repurchase agreements and U.S. government and agency securities and are valued based on quoted prices for similar assets in active markets and inputs other than quoted prices that are derived from observable market data. 12 The Company evaluates transfers b etween levels at the end of each reporting period. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the periods presented. 8. Net Loss Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders The Company computed net loss attributable per common stockholder using the two-class method required for participating securities through the date of the IPO. Immediately prior to the IPO, all outstanding convertible preferred stock was converted into common stock (see Note 1). The Company considered convertible preferred stock to be participating securities. In the event that the Company had paid out distributions, holders of convertible preferred stock would have participated in the distribution. The two-class method is an earnings (loss) allocation method under which earnings (loss) per share is calculated for common stock and participating security considering a participating security's rights to undistributed earnings (loss) as if all such earnings (loss) had been distributed during the period. The convertible preferred stock did not have an obligation to fund losses and are therefore excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per share. The Company's Series A and B convertible preferred stock were entitled to receive noncumulative dividends and in preference to any dividends on shares of the Company's common stock. Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is computed by dividing net loss attributable to common stock by the weighted-average number of common stock outstanding during the period. For periods in which the Company generated a net loss, the Company does not include the potential impact of dilutive securities in diluted net loss per share, as the impact of these items is anti-dilutive. The following weighted-average equity instruments were excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive for the periods presented: 9. Research and License Agreements University Research Agreement In December 2013, the Company entered into a research agreement with the University of Texas at Austin (the "University"). Under the terms of this research agreement, the Company engaged the University to perform certain nonclinical research activities related to the systemic depletion of amino acids for cancer therapy and rare disease therapy. Under the research agreement, the Company was required to pay the University an annual amount not to exceed $386,000 during the one-year term of the agreement from the effective date. Pursuant to subsequent amendments to the research agreement, the term and maximum expenditure limitation were extended and increased through August 31, 2017 for a combined $1.8 million. For the three months ended June30, 2017, the Company paid $188,000 to the University under the research agreement and did not make any payments to the University for the three months ended June30, 2016. For the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, the Company paid $375,000 and $457,000, respectively, to the University under the research agreement. 13 License Agreements In December 2013, two of the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries, AECase, Inc. ("AECase") and AEMase, Inc. ("AEMase"), entered into license agreements with the University under which the University granted to AECase and AEMase exclusive, worldwide, sublicenseable licenses. The University granted the AECase license under a patent application relating to the right to use technology related to the Company's AEB3103 product candidate. The University granted the AEMase license under a patent relating to the right to use technology related to the Company's AEB2109 product candidate. In January 2017, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Patent License Agreement (the "Restated License") with the University which consolidated the two license agreements, revised certain obligations, and licensed additional patent applications and invention disclosures to the Company. Pursuant to the terms of the Restated License, the Company may be required to pay the University up to $6.4 million milestone payments based on the achievement of certain development milestones, including clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the majority of which are due upon the achievement of later development milestones, including a $5.0 million payment due on regulatory approval of a product and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a product for a second indication. In addition, the Company is required to pay the University a low single-digit royalty on worldwide-net sales of products covered under the Restated License, together with a revenue share on non-royalty consideration received from sublicensees. The rate of the revenue share ranges from 6.5% to 25% depending on the date the sublicense agreement is signed. 10. Related Party Transactions The spouse of the Company's former Chief Executive Officer previously provided consulting services to the Company. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, there were no payments made to the spouse in consulting fees. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company paid $195,000 and $324,000, respectively, to the spouse in consulting fees, which were recorded in Research and Development expenses. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had no outstanding liability to the related party. One of the founders, a non-employee member of the Company's board of directors, entered into a consulting agreement with the Company in 2014 under which the founder would receive $50,000 per year for a fixed number of hours of consulting and advisory services and receive equity incentive shares, which converted into 43,290 restricted stock awards and 13,852 stock options upon the LLC Conversion, with the vesting contingent on time and performance milestones being achieved. The Company paid $25,000 and $13,000 during the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively and $25,000 and $25,000 during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, to the founder under the consulting agreement. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had no outstanding liability to the related party. The Company named a member of its board of directors as interim chief medical officer ("interim CMO") on April 21, 2017. Under the employment agreement, the interim CMO would receive a salary of $27,000 per month and an option to purchase 24,000 shares of common stock, subject to a service condition. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , the Company paid the interim CMO $62,000. On July 20, 2017, the Company appointed the interim CMO as interim chief executive officer ("interim CEO") upon the resignation of David G. Lowe. 11. Commitments and Contingencies The Company leases office space and laboratory facilities in Austin, Texas under operating leases that commenced in January 2015 and February 2017, respectively. The office space lease was amended in September 2016 and extended to December 31, 2020. The laboratory facility lease will expire on December 31, 2017. 14 Item2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the SEC on March 23, 2017. This discussion and other parts of this Quarterly Report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report entitled "Risk Factors." Overview We are a biotechnology company committed to developing enzyme-based therapeutics in the field of amino acid metabolism to treat rare genetic diseases and cancer. Our engineered human enzymes are designed to degrade specific amino acids in the blood to target these diseases. In inborn errors of metabolism, or IEM, a subset of rare genetic diseases, we are seeking to reduce the toxic levels of amino acids in patients to the normal range. In oncology, we are seeking to reduce amino acid blood levels below the normal range where we believe we will be able to exploit the dependence of certain cancers on specific amino acids. Our lead product candidate, AEB1102, is engineered to degrade the amino acid arginine and is being developed to treat two extremes of arginine metabolism, including arginine excess in patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency, an IEM, as well as some cancers which have been shown to have a metabolic dependence on arginine. AEB1102 has demonstrated clinical proof-of-mechanism in both scenarios. In a Phase 1 clinical trial for the treatment of patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency, a dose-proportional reduction in plasma arginine levels was observed in two patients. A reduction in blood arginine levels was also observed in Phase 1 clinical trials for the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors and the hematological malignancies relapsed refractory acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, and myelodysplastic syndrome, or MDS. These preliminary results support its potential use as a therapeutic of both Arginase 1 Deficiency and certain cancers associated with abnormal amino acid metabolism. We are conducting three clinical trials for AEB1102, consisting of one Phase 1/2 clinical trial for the treatment of Arginase 1 Deficiency and two Phase 1 clinical trials for the treatment of certain cancers. Arginase 1 Deficiency . In November 2016, we submitted a protocol amendment to broaden the scope of our Phase 1 trial to a Phase 1/2 trial. The amended protocol includes dosing of pediatric patients (two and older) and weekly repeat dosing, with the intent to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and clinical response of AEB1102 in patients with this IEM. In the first quarter of 2017, we received approval for the Phase 1/2 protocol for the treatment of patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency at multiple Institutional Review Boards. In March 2017, we received an information request from the FDA and began discussions with the agency to support the inclusion of pediatric patients in our Phase 1/2 trial. We are working to resolve a difference in opinion with the FDA on data required to support inclusion of pediatric patients, which has delayed our planned initiation of dosing in pediatric patients in the United States. We anticipate continuing our dialogue with the FDA on this topic and will also continue to focus efforts on enrolling our Phase 1/2 trial in the United States, and potentially in Canada and Europe. We anticipate further enrollment of adult patients in the United States during the middle of 2017 with topline data expected in the second half of 2018. Results from the first two adult patients in our Phase 1 clinical trial for the treatment of Arginase 1 Deficiency were announced at the 2017 American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics Annual Clinical Genetics Meeting in March 2017. 15 Advanced Solid Tumors . In October 2015, we initiated enrollment for a Phase 1 dose escalation trial for cancer patients with advanced solid tumors. In this ongoing trial, AEB1102 is well-tolerated and patients have demonstrated a reduction in blood arginine levels, provi ding proof-of-mechanism. We expect to announce results of this Phase 1 dose escalation trial in patients with advanced solid tumors and anticipate initiating three single agent expansion arms in cutaneous melanoma, uveal melanoma, and small cell lung cance r, potentially in combination with existing or emerging standards of care, in the fourth quarter of 2017 or the first quarter of 2018. Hematological Malignancies . In July 2016, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with the hematological malignancies AML and MDS in the United States and Canada. Consistent with the trial for patients with advanced solid tumors, this trial has demonstrated proof-of-mechanism. We expect to announce results of the Phase 1 dose escalation trial in patients with AML and MDS in the fourth quarter of 2017 or the first quarter of 2018. We are also building a pipeline of additional product candidates targeting key amino acids and other metabolites, including homocystine, a target for another IEM as well as cysteine, and its oxidized form cystine, and methionine, for cancer indications. Since inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts and resources to identifying and developing product candidates, conducting nonclinical studies, initiating and conducting clinical trials, recruiting personnel and raising capital. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our preferred stock, the initial public offering, or IPO, of our common stock, which closed on April 12, 2016, a follow-on public offering of our common stock in June 2017 and collection of a research grant. We have not recorded revenue from product sales and all of our revenue to date has been grant revenue. Since our inception, and through June 30, 2017, we have raised an aggregate of $122.0 million to fund our operations through the sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collected $12.0 million in grant proceeds. As of June 30, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $63.4 million. We have incurred net losses in each year since inception. Our net losses were $12.9 million and $10.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and from general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. As of June 30, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $58.2 million. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses over the next several years. Our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We anticipate that our expenses will increase significantly as we continue our clinical and diagnostic development activities for our lead product candidate, AEB1102; concurrently develop our pipeline product candidates; expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; and hire additional personnel. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. Recent Developments In May 2017, we selected three single agent solid tumor expansion arms for our Phase 1 clinical trial of AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors: cutaneous melanoma, uveal melanoma and small cell lung cancer, all of which have been shown in published literature and preclinical studies to demonstrate a dependence on arginine. The primary endpoint of each expansion arms is to assess the safety of AEB1102 in patients with each tumor type. Secondary endpoints include the assessment of pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and clinical response. Each expansion arm is expected to enroll up to 12 patients and are currently planned to initiate enrollment in the fourth quarter of 2017 or first quarter of 2018, following completion of the dose escalation phase. Components of Operating Results Revenue To date, we have recognized revenue solely from a research grant from the Cancer Prevention and Research Institute of Texas, or CPRIT, and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any of our product candidates. Our ability to generate product revenues, which we do not expect will occur for several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development, regulatory approval and eventual commercialization of our product candidates. In June 2015, we entered into a grant agreement with CPRIT, or the Grant Contract, for $19.8 million for use in developing cancer treatments by exploiting the metabolism of cancer cells. The Grant Contract covers a four year period 16 from June 1, 2014 through May 31, 2018. The grant allows us to receive funds in advance of costs and allowable expenses being incurred. We record the revenue as qualifying costs are incurred and there is reasonable assurance that the co nditions of the award have been met for collection. Proceeds received prior to the costs being incurred or the conditions of the award being met are recognized as deferred revenue until the services are performed and the conditions of the award are met. On a quarterly basis, we are required to submit a financial reporting package outlining the nature and extent of reimbursable costs paid and requesting reimbursement under the grant. At the end of each period, qualifying costs paid prior to reimbursement result in the recognition of a grant receivable. Research and development expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs incurred for the discovery and development of our product candidates, most notably, our lead product candidate AEB1102. Since we currently do not have manufacturing capabilities and did not have an internal research laboratory before February 2017, we contracted with external providers for nonclinical studies, clinical trials and manufacturing services. Our research and development expenses include: costs from acquiring clinical trial materials and services performed for contracted services with a contract manufacturing organization; fees paid to clinical trial sites, clinical research organizations, contract research organizations, contract manufacturing organizations, nonclinical research companies, and academic institutions; and employee and consultant-related expenses incurred, which include salaries, benefits, travel and stock-based compensation. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Advance payments for goods or services to be rendered in the future for use in research and development activities are deferred and capitalized. The capitalized amounts are expensed as the related goods are delivered or the services are performed. Research and development expenses have historically represented the largest component of our total operating expenses. We plan to increase our research and development expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue the development of our product candidates. Our expenditures on current and future nonclinical and clinical development programs are subject to numerous uncertainties in timing and cost to completion. The duration, costs, and timing of clinical trials and development of our product candidates will depend on a variety of factors, including: the scope, rate of progress, and expenses of our ongoing research activities as well as any additional clinical trials and other research and development activities; future clinical trial results; uncertainties in clinical trial enrollment rates or drop-out or discontinuation rates of patients; potential safety monitoring or other studies requested by regulatory agencies; significant and changing government regulation; and the timing and receipt of regulatory approvals, if any. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain FDA and other regulatory approval is costly and time consuming and the successful development of our product candidates is highly uncertain. The risks and uncertainties associated with our research and development projects are discussed more fully in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report titled "Risk Factors." As a result of these risks and uncertainties, we are unable to determine with any degree of certainty the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects, or if, when, or to what extent we will generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of any of our product candidates that obtain regulatory approval. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. 17 General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other related costs, including stock-based compensation, for personnel in executive, finance, accounting, operations, and human resources functions. Other significant costs include legal fees relating to corporate matters and fees for insurance, accounting, consulting, and recruiting services. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in the future to support our continued research and development activities, and the potential commercialization of our product candidates. These increases will likely include higher costs related to the hiring of additional personnel and fees to outside consultants, lawyers and accountants, among other expenses. Additionally, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased costs associated with being a public company, including expenses related to services associated with maintaining compliance with NASDAQ listing rules and SEC requirements, insurance and investor relations costs. Interest income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Income taxes We serve as a holding company for our seven wholly-owned subsidiary corporations and file consolidated corporate federal income tax returns. We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is established against the deferred tax assets to reduce their carrying value to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as noncurrent along with the related valuation allowance. Due to our lack of earnings history, the net deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. We recognize benefits of uncertain tax positions if it is more likely than not that such positions will be sustained upon examination based solely on the technical merits, as the largest amount of benefits that is more likely than not to be realized upon the ultimate settlement. Our policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to the unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. These estimates form the basis for judgments we make about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are those policies which require the most significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with our most critical accounting policies are those relating to accrued research and development costs and stock-based compensation. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. 18 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: Grant Revenues .Grant revenues increased by $0.1 million, or 8%, to $1.5 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 from $1.4 million for the three months ended June30, 2016. The increase was primarily due to additional research and development costs associated with the clinical trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors and the hematological malignancies AML and MDS, for which we recognized grant revenue pursuant to the Grant Contract. Research and Development Expenses .Research and development expenses increased by $1.4 million, or 32%, to $5.8 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 from $4.4 million for the three months ended June30, 2016. The change in research and development expenses was primarily due to: Higher personnel-related expenses, which increased by $1.0 million as a result of additional employee headcount to expand our internal regulatory, research laboratory, and clinical development capabilities; Higher manufacturing expenses, which increased by $0.8 million as a result of scaling-up the development and clinical manufacturing for AEB1102 and manufacturing activities for pipeline development; Higher clinical development expenses, which increased by $0.2 million as a result of initiating our Phase 1 dose escalation trial for AEB1102 in patients with hematological malignancies in July 2016, and our preparation for three solid tumor single agent expansion arms; and Lower nonclinical expenses, which decreased by $0.6 million as a result of completing toxicology studies in 2016 for the preparation of multi-dose clinical trials related to AEB1102 for patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses remained relatively consistent for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June30, 2016. Interest Income . The increase in interest income to $100,000 for the three months ended June30, 2017 from $74,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 was primarily due to the investment of additional funds received as a result of our IPO in April 2016. 19 Results of Operations Comparison of the Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 The following table summarizes our results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: Grant Revenues .Grant revenues increased by $0.2 million, or 10%, to $2.5 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 from $2.2 million for the six months ended June30, 2016. The increase was primarily due to additional research and development costs associated with the clinical trials for AEB1102 in patients with advanced solid tumors and the hematological malignancies AML and MDS, for which we recognized grant revenue pursuant to the Grant Contract. Research and Development Expenses .Research and development expenses increased by $2.8 million, or 35%, to $10.8 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 from $8.0 million for the six months ended June30, 2016. The change in research and development expenses was primarily due to: Higher personnel-related expenses, which increased by $1.8 million as a result of additional employee headcount to expand our internal regulatory, research laboratory, and clinical development capabilities; Higher manufacturing expenses, which increased by $1.4 million as a result of scaling-up the development and clinical manufacturing for AEB1102 and manufacturing activities for pipeline development; Higher clinical development expenses, which increased by $0.6 million as a result of initiating our Phase 1 dose escalation trial for AEB1102 in patients with hematological malignancies in July 2016, development of our natural history study for patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency, and our preparation for three solid tumor single agent expansion arms; Higher intellectual property-related expenses, which increased by $0.2 million as a result of amending and consolidating license agreements with the University of Texas at Austin for our product candidates AEB3103 and AEB2109; and Lower nonclinical expenses, which decreased by $1.2 million as a result of completing toxicology studies in 2016 for the preparation of multi-dose clinical trials related to AEB1102 for patients with Arginase 1 Deficiency. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $0.5 million, or 11%, to $4.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 from $4.3 million for the six months ended June30, 2016. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in employee compensation, recruiting, travel, and office rent. Interest Income .The increase in interest income to $195,000 for the six months ended June30, 2017 from $100,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 was primarily due to the investment of additional funds received as a result of our IPO in April 2016. 20 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of liquidity We are a clinical-stage biotechnology company with a limited operating history, and due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated operating losses since our inception and have not generated any revenue from the sale of any products. Since our inception and through June 30, 2017, we have funded our operations by raising an aggregate of $121.4 million of gross proceeds from the sale and issuance of convertible preferred and common equity securities and collecting $12.0 million in grant proceeds. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with a contract manufacturing organization, or CMO, in 2013 whereby we issued convertible preferred shares to the CMO in exchange for services performed, with the obligation fully satisfied in June 2015. In April 2016, we completed our IPO and sold 5,481,940 shares of common stock for aggregate proceeds of $47.3 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. In May 2017, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC for the offering, issuance and sale by us of up to $150.0 million of our common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants to purchase common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, subscription rights to purchase common stock and units consisting of all or some of these securities. In June 2017, we sold an aggregate of 3,000,000 shares of common stock in an underwritten public offering pursuant to the shelf registration statement for gross proceeds of $12.3 million, resulting in net proceeds of $11.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. As of June 30, 2017, we have offering costs of $186,000 recorded as an outstanding liability on the balance sheet. In addition, common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $20.0 million may be issued and sold pursuant to an at-the-market sales agreement with JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC. As of June 30, 2017, no sales had been made under this at-the-market sales agreement and $20.0 million of common stock remained available to be sold, subject to certain conditions as specified in the sales agreement. In June 2015, we entered into the Grant Contract with CPRIT, under which CPRIT agreed to provide up to $19.8 million in grant funding to fund our development of AEB1102. Through June 30, 2017, we have collected $12.0 million in grant proceeds with $7.8 million available for future collection under the grant contract. As of June 30, 2017, we have a grant receivable outstanding of $1.2 million. Our primary use of cash is to fund the development of our lead product candidate, AEB1102. This includes both the research and development costs and the general and administrative expenses required to support those operations. Since we are a clinical-stage biotechnology company, we have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and we anticipate such losses, in absolute dollar terms, to increase as we continue our clinical trials in AEB1102 and expand our development efforts in our pipeline of nonclinical candidates. As of June 30, 2017, we had available cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $63.4 million. Under our current operating plan, we believe that we have sufficient resources to fund our operations through September 30, 2019 with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Future funding requirements and operational plan Our operational plan for the near future is to continue clinical trials for our lead product candidate AEB1102 in three separate indications: Arginase 1 Deficiency, advanced solid tumors, and the hematological malignancies AML and MDS, and to expand development for at least one additional product candidate. As such, we plan to increase our research and development expenditures for the foreseeable future with nonclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing and an integrated biomarker strategy. We expect our principal expenditures during this time period to include expenses for the following: funding the continuing development of AEB1102; funding the advancement of additional product candidates; and funding working capital, including general operating expenses. 21 We anticipate that we will continue to generate losses into the foreseeable future as we develop our product candidates, seek regulatory approval of those candidates and begin to commercialize any approved products. Until such time as we can generate substantial product revenue, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity or debt financing s, research grants, collaborations, or other sources. We currently have no debt or debt facility or additional committed capital. To the extent that we raise additional equity, the ownership interest of our shareholders will be diluted. Due to our significant research and development expenditures, we have generated substantial losses in each period since inception. We have an accumulated deficit of $58.2 million as of June 30, 2017. We expect to incur substantial losses in the future as we expand our research and development capabilities. Based on those plans, we expect that our existing cash, cash equivalent, and marketable securities will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements at least through September 30, 2019. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, however, and we could deplete our capital resources sooner than we expect. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Cash used in operating activities Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $11.4 million and reflected a net loss of $12.9 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $1.1 million for stock-based compensation and by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.3 million resulting from an increase in research and development costs during the six months ended June 30, 2017. Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $8.6 million and reflected a net loss of $10.0 million. Our net loss was offset in part by non-cash expenses of $0.5 million for stock-based compensation. The change in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable of $0.2 million and accrued and other liabilities of $1.2 million driven by an increase in accrued research and development costs, offset by a $0.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets driven by an increase in prepaid insurance premiums and prepaid clinical development costs. Cash (used in) provided by investing activities Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $21.1 million and consisted of $37.8 million in purchases of marketable securities and $0.3 million in purchases of property and equipment to develop an internal research laboratory, offset by $17.0 million in maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $0.7 million and primarily consisted of $3.0 million in purchases of marketable securities and $0.1 million in purchases of property and equipment offset by $3.8 million in maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by financing activities Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $11.6 million, which primarily consisted of $12.3 million from the follow-on public offering of our common stock in June 2017, offset by $0.6 million in underwriting discounts and commissions and $0.1 million in paid offering costs. 22 Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June30, 2016 was $49.3 million, which consisted of $54.8 million from the IPO in April 2016, offset by $3.8 million in underwriting discounts and commissions and $1.7 million in offering costs. Contractual Obligations In September 2016, we amended our operating lease agreement for office space in Austin, Texas. The amended lease increased the office space and extended the lease term through December 31, 2020. The total estimated rent payments over the remaining term of the lease as of June 30, 2017 is approximately $1.0 million. In February 2017, we entered into a separate lease agreement for laboratory space in Austin, Texas, which will expire on December 31, 2017. The total estimated rent payments over the remaining term of the lease as of June 30, 2017 is approximately $34,000. In August 2016, we amended our research agreement with the University. The scope and term under the agreement were extended through August 31, 2017 with a $750,000 increase in the maximum expenditure limitation. As of June 30, 2017, the research agreement, as amended, expires on August 31, 2017 with no remaining payment obligations after such date. Contingent contractual obligations The terms of the Grant Contract require that we pay CPRIT tiered royalties in the low- to mid-single digit percentages on revenues from sales and license of products or services that are based upon, utilize, are developed from or materially incorporate the intellectual property resulting from the grant-funded activities for AEB1102. Such royalties reduce to less than one percent after a mid-single digit multiple of the grant funds have been repaid to CPRIT in royalties. Such royalties are payable for so long as we have marketing exclusivity or patents covering the applicable product or service (or twelve years from commercial sale of product or service in certain countries if there is no such exclusivity or patent protection). On December 24, 2013, two of our wholly owned subsidiaries, AECase, Inc., or AECase, and AEMase, Inc., or AEMase, entered into license agreements with the University under which the University granted to AECase and AEMase exclusive, worldwide, sublicenseable licenses. The University granted to AECase a license under a patent application relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB3103 product candidate. The University granted to AEMase a license under a patent relating to the right to use technology related to our AEB2109 product candidate. On January 31, 2017, we entered into an Amended and Restated Patent License Agreement, or the Restated License, with the University which consolidated the two license agreements dated December 24, 2013, revised certain obligations, and licensed additional patent applications and invention disclosures to Aeglea. With respect to each product candidate covered by the Restated License, we could be required to pay the University up to $6.4 million in milestone payments based on the achievement of certain development milestones, including clinical trials and regulatory approvals, the majority of which are due upon the achievement of later development milestones, including a $5.0 million payment due on regulatory approval of a product and a $500,000 payment payable on final regulatory approval of a product for a second indication. In addition, we are required to pay the University a low single digit royalty on worldwide-net sales of products covered under the Restated License, together with a revenue share on non-royalty consideration received from sublicensees. The rate of the revenue share ranges from 6.5% to 25% depending on the date the sublicense agreement is signed. The University may terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, including for a breach by us that is not cured within 30 or 60 days of notice (depending on the type of breach), or if we or any of our affiliates or sublicensees participate in any proceeding to challenge the licensed patent rights (unless, with respect to sublicensees, we terminate the applicable sublicense). Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Through June 30, 2017, we do not have any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined by applicable SEC regulations. 23 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements, but expect the impact to be limited to the operating lease agreement for office and laboratory space in Austin, Texas. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation (Topic 718) , which provides clarity and reduces both the diversity in practice and cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments in this update provide guidance on which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, and the amendment should be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. This amendment does not have any impact on the consolidated financial statements as no modifications were made to share-based payment awards during the six months ended June 30, 2017.