ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (Thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Thousands, except par value amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION Nature of Business Abercrombie& Fitch Co. ("A&F"), through its subsidiaries (collectively, A&F and its subsidiaries are referred to as "Abercrombie & Fitch" or the "Company"), is a specialty retailer of branded apparel and accessories. The Company operates stores in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East and direct-to-consumer operations in North America, Europe and Asia that serve its customers throughout the world. Principles of Consolidation The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include historical financial statements of, and transactions applicable to, the Company and reflect its assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has interests in a United Arab Emirates business venture and in a Kuwait business venture with Majid al Futtaim Fashion L.L.C. ("MAF"), each of which meets the definition of a variable interest entity ("VIE"). The Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of these VIEs; therefore, the Company has consolidated the operating results, assets and liabilities of these VIEs. Fiscal Year The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. All references herein to "Fiscal 2016 " and "Fiscal 2015 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal years ending on January 28, 2017 and January 30, 2016 , respectively. Interim Financial Statements The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of April 30, 2016 , and for the thirteen week periods ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 , are unaudited and are presented pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Accordingly, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto contained in A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015 filed with the SEC on March 28, 2016 . The January 30, 2016 consolidated balance sheet data were derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). In the opinion of management, the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments (which are of a normal recurring nature) necessary to state fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for Fiscal 2016 . 6 Recent Accounting Pronouncements The following table provides a brief description of recent accounting pronouncements that could affect the Company's financial statements: * Early adoption is permitted. 7 2. NET LOSS PER SHARE Net loss per basic and diluted share is computed based on the weighted-average number of outstanding shares of common stock. The following table presents weighted-average shares outstanding and anti-dilutive shares: (1) Reflects the total number of shares related to outstanding share-based compensation awards that have been excluded from the computation of net loss per diluted share because the impact would have been anti-dilutive. 3. FAIR VALUE Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The inputs used to measure fair value are prioritized based on a three-level hierarchy. The three levels of inputs to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1-inputs are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities that are available in active markets that the Company can access at the measurement date. Level 2-inputs are other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities, directly or indirectly. Level 3-inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable. The lowest level of significant input determines the placement of the entire fair value measurement in the hierarchy. The three levels of the hierarchy and the distribution within it of the Company's assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, were as follows: The level 2 assets and liabilities consist of derivative financial instruments, primarily forward foreign currency exchange contracts. The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is determined by using quoted market prices of the same or similar instruments, adjusted for counterparty risk. 8 Fair value of borrowings: The Company's borrowings under the Company's credit facilities are carried at historical cost in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. For disclosure purposes, the Company estimated the fair value of borrowings outstanding based on market rates for similar types of debt, which are considered to be Level 2 inputs. The carrying amount and fair value of the Company's term loan facility were as follows: No borrowings were outstanding under the Company's senior secured revolving credit facility as of April 30, 2016 or January 30, 2016 . 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET Property and equipment, net consisted of: Long-lived assets, primarily comprised of property and equipment, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Factors used in the evaluation include, but are not limited to, management's plans for future operations, recent operating results, and undiscounted projected cash flows. For any of the Company's store-related assets that fail the recoverability test, fair value is determined at the individual store level, primarily using a discounted cash flow model that utilizes Level 3 inputs. The estimation of future cash flows from operating activities requires significant estimates of factors that include future sales, gross margin performance and operating expenses. In instances where the discounted cash flow analysis indicates a negative value at the store level, the market exit price based on historical experience, and other comparable market data where applicable, is used to determine the fair value by asset type. The Company had $39.1 million and $37.3 million of construction project assets in property and equipment, net at April 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016 , respectively, related to the construction of buildings in certain lease arrangements where the Company is deemed to be the owner of the construction project. 5. INCOME TAXES The Company's quarterly tax provision and the estimate of the annual effective tax rate are subject to significant variation due to several factors. These include variability in the pre-tax jurisdictional mix of earnings, changes in how the Company does business including entering into new businesses or geographies, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative impact of non-deductible and discrete items. The impact of these items on the effective tax rate will be greater at lower levels of pre-tax income (loss). 9 6. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION The Company recognized share-based compensation expense of $6.6 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 , and $6.9 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 . The Company also recognized tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $2.5 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 , and $2.3 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 . Stock Options The following table summarizes stock option activity for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 : Stock Appreciation Rights The following table summarizes stock appreciation rights activity for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 : As of April 30, 2016 , there was $7.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to stock appreciation rights. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 15 months . The grant date fair value of stock appreciation rights that vested during the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 was $3.7 million and $3.9 million , respectively. 10 Restricted Stock Units The following table summarizes activity for restricted stock units for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 : Fair value of both service-based and performance-based restricted stock units is calculated using the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant reduced for anticipated dividend payments on unvested shares. In determining fair value, the Company does not take into account performance-based vesting requirements. Performance-based vesting requirements are taken into account in determining the number of awards expected to vest. For market-based restricted stock units, fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation with the number of shares that ultimately vest dependent on the Company's total stockholder return measured against the total stockholder return of a select group of peer companies over a three-year period. For an award with performance-based or market-based vesting requirements, the number of shares that ultimately vest can vary from 0% to 200% of target depending on the level of achievement of performance criteria. Unvested shares related to restricted stock units with performance vesting conditions are reflected at 100% of their target vesting amount in the table above. Service-based restricted stock units are expensed on a straight-line basis over the total requisite service period, net of forfeitures. Performance-based restricted stock units subject to graded vesting are expensed on an accelerated attribution basis, net of forfeitures. Market-based restricted stock units without graded vesting features are expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, net of forfeitures. As of April 30, 2016 , there was $46.3 million , $3.2 million and $5.2 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 18 months , 17 months and 16 months for service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. Additional information pertaining to restricted stock units for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 follows: 11 The weighted-average assumptions used for market-based restricted stock units in the Monte Carlo simulation during the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 were as follows: 7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Company is exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, to manage the financial impacts of these exposures. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation and does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge the foreign currency exposure associated with forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales to foreign subsidiaries and the related settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany receivables. Fluctuations in exchange rates will either increase or decrease the Company's intercompany equivalent cash flows and affect the Company's U.S. Dollar earnings. Gains or losses on the foreign currency exchange forward contracts that are used to hedge these exposures are expected to partially offset this variability. Foreign currency exchange forward contracts represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed upon settlement date. These forward contracts typically have a maximum term of twelve months . The sale of the inventory to the Company's customers will result in the reclassification of related derivative gains and losses that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("AOCL"). Substantially all of the unrealized gains or losses related to designated cash flow hedges as of April 30, 2016 will be recognized in cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, over the next twelve months . The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities at their gross fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, our master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of April 30, 2016 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge either a portion, or all, of forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales, the resulting settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany accounts receivable, or both: (1) Amounts are reported in U.S. Dollars equivalent as of April 30, 2016 . The Company also uses foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities. Examples of monetary assets/liabilities include cash balances, receivables and payables. Fluctuations in exchange rates result in transaction gains/(losses) being recorded in earnings as U.S. GAAP requires that monetary assets/liabilities be remeasured at the spot exchange rate at quarter-end or upon settlement. The Company has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments because there are no differences in the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument and the hedged item. 12 As of April 30, 2016 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency forward contracts that were entered into to hedge foreign currency denominated net monetary assets/liabilities: (1) Amounts are reported in U.S. Dollars equivalent as of April 30, 2016 . The location and amounts of derivative fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of April 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016 were as follows: Refer to Note 3, " FAIR VALUE, " for further discussion of the determination of the fair value of derivative instruments. The location and amounts of derivative gains and losses for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss were as follows: (1) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in spot rates. (2) The amount represents the reclassification from AOCL into earnings when the hedged item affects earnings, which is when merchandise is sold to the Company's customers. (3) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in the difference between the spot price and forward price that is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and, therefore, recognized in earnings. 13 8. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 was as follows: (1) For the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 , a loss was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization line item on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 was as follows: (2) For the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 , a loss was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 9. SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has two operating segments: Abercrombie, which includes the Company's Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands; and Hollister. These operating segments have similar economic characteristics, class of consumers, products, and production and distribution methods, and have been aggregated into one reportable segment. The following table provides the Company's net sales by operating segment for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 . 14 The following table provides the Company's net sales by geographic area for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 . 10. CONTINGENCIES The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. The Company's assessment of the current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries, administrative agencies or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with the Company's evaluation of claims. As of April 30, 2016 , the Company had accrued charges of approximately $20 million for certain legal contingencies. In addition, there are certain claims and legal proceedings pending against the Company for which accruals have not been established. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 15 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW BUSINESS SUMMARY The Company is a specialty retailer that operates stores in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East and direct-to-consumer operations in North America, Europe and Asia that serve its customers throughout the world. The Company sells casual sportswear apparel, including knit tops and woven shirts, graphic t-shirts, fleece, jeans and woven pants, shorts, sweaters, and outerwear; personal care products; and accessories for men, women and kids under the Abercrombie& Fitch, abercrombie kids and Hollister brands. The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. Fiscal years are designated in the consolidated financial statements and notes by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. All references herein to "Fiscal 2016 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal year that will end on January 28, 2017 , and to "Fiscal 2015 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal year that ended January 30, 2016 . For the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , net sales decreased 3% to $685.5 million from $709.4 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The gross profit rate for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 was 62.1% compared to 58.0% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Operating loss was $54.9 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to $90.2 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F was $39.6 million and $0.59 , respectively, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $63.2 million and $0.91 , respectively, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . There were no non-GAAP adjustments for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. Excluding certain items for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 , adjusted non-GAAP gross profit rate was 61.8% , operating loss was $52.3 million , and net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to Abercrombie & Fitch Co. was $37.2 million and $0.53 , respectively. As of April 30, 2016 , the Company had $491.0 million in cash and equivalents, and $293.3 million in gross borrowings outstanding under its term loan facility. Net cash used by operating activities was $76.3 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 . The Company also used cash of $26.0 million for capital expenditures and $13.5 million to pay dividends during the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 . The Company believes that the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this "ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" are useful to investors as they provide the ability to measure the Company's operating performance as compared to historical periods, excluding the effect of certain items which the Company believes do not reflect its future operating outlook. Management used these non-GAAP financial measures during the periods presented to assess the Company's performance and to develop expectations for future operating performance. In addition, the Company provides certain financial information on a constant currency basis to enhance investors' understanding of underlying business trends and operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures should be used in conjunction with, not as an alternative to, the Company's GAAP financial results. Such financial measures are presented on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis under "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS," with excluded items specifically identified. 16 The tables below reconcile GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures for the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 . (1) Refer to "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" for details on excluded items. Due to the seasonal nature of the retail apparel industry, the results of operations for any current period are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full fiscal year. The seasonality of the Company's operations may also lead to significant fluctuations in certain asset and liability accounts. 17 CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Our results for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 reflect significant traffic headwinds, particularly in international markets and in our U.S. flagship and tourist stores. We were, however, encouraged by our core U.S. business, where comparable sales improved, excluding our flagship and tourist stores, and gross margin rate increased meaningfully on a cross-branded basis. Overall, our business remained well controlled, with our assortment and customer-centricity efforts driving improved conversion across all segments, and expense and inventory well managed. Our ongoing efforts to improve our business are focused on: Putting the customer at the center of everything we do. Delivering compelling and differentiated assortments. Defining clear positionings for our brands. Optimizing our brand reach and channel performance. Continuing to improve efficiency and reduce expense. Ensuring we are organized to succeed. We believe we are taking the right steps to both manage our business at a challenging time and position it for profitable growth. For Fiscal 2016, we expect: Comparable sales to remain challenging in the second quarter, but to improve in the second half of the year . Adverse effects from foreign currency exchange rates on sales and operating income. A gross margin rate up slightly to last year's rate of 61.9%, but down modestly in the second quarter . Operating expense dollars to be approximately flat to last year, with investments in marketing, store management and omnichannel offset by savings from expense reduction efforts. Based on the timing of these investments, we expect operating expense dollars in the second quarter to be up 2% to 3% over last year. An effective tax rate in the mid-to-upper 30s . A weighted average diluted share count of approximately 68 million shares, excluding the effect of potential share buybacks . We expect capital expenditures in the range of $150 million to $175 million for the full year. We plan to open approximately 15 new stores in Fiscal 2016, including approximately 10 in international markets, primarily China, and approximately five in the U.S. We also plan to open six new outlet stores, primarily in the U.S. In addition, we anticipate closing up to 60 stores in the U.S. during the fiscal year through natural lease expirations. Excluded from our outlook are the effects of certain potential items, including, but not limited to, insurance recoveries, impairments and other items. 18 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS STORE ACTIVITY Store count and gross square footage by brand for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 , respectively, were as follows: (1) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. (2) Excludes one international franchise store as of April 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016. (3) Excludes two international franchise stores as of April 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016. 19 Net Sales (1) Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For the purpose of this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. (2) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. Net sales for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 decreased 3% compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The decrease in net sales was largely attributable a 4% decrease in comparable sales. Cost of Sales, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization (1) Includes a write-down of the value of inventory to reflect a reduced net realizable value, as the Company elected to accelerate the disposition of certain merchandise that no longer supported the Company's brand positioning strategy. Cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 410 basis points for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The decrease in rate was primarily due to a $26.9 million inventory write-down in the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding the $26.9 million charge in the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 , adjusted non-GAAP cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 30 basis points for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Stores and Distribution Expense Stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 140 basis points for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The decrease as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to expense 20 reduction efforts, partially offset by higher direct-to-consumer expense and the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, adjusted non-GAAP stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 70 basis points for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment and costs incurred to physically move the product to the customer, associated with direct-to-consumer operations were $22.8 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 compared to $22.0 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 . Handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare the products for shipment to stores, were $10.4 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 compared to $11.0 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 . Shipping and handling costs are included in stores and distribution expense on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense Marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 150 basis points for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The increase in rate was primarily due to higher legal, marketing and other expenses and the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, adjusted non-GAAP marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 180 basis points for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Restructuring Benefit Benefits associated with the restructuring of the Gilly Hicks brand were $1.6 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Asset Impairment The Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $6.1 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 related to a decision to remove certain store fixtures in connection with changes to the Abercrombie and Hollister store experiences. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income, net for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 was $2.9 million and included income of approximately $1.5 million related to foreign currency transactions. Other operating income, net for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 was $2.0 million and included income of approximately $1.1 million related to foreign currency transactions. 21 Operating Loss (1) Includes an inventory write-down charge related to a decision to accelerate the disposition of certain aged merchandise. Operating loss as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 470 basis points for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The decrease in rate was primarily driven by the net year-over-year impact of certain items presented in the above table, partially offset by the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, adjusted non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of sales increased by approximately 60 basis points for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Interest Expense, Net Income Tax Benefit (1) Refer to "Operating Loss" for details of excluded items. The Company computed the tax effect of excluded items based on non-GAAP pre-tax loss. The effective tax rate was 35.0% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to 33.3% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The effective tax rate for the thirteen weeks ended April30, 2016 increased relative to the prior year due to the recognition of deferred U.S. income taxes on net income generated after October 31, 2015. Excluding certain items, as presented above in the table under " Operating Loss ," the adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate was 34.8% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Net Loss and Net Loss per Share Attributable to A&F Net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $39.6 million and $0.59 , respectively, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $63.2 million and $0.91 , respectively, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding certain items, as presented above under " Operating Loss , " and " Income Tax Benefit , " adjusted non-GAAP net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $37.2 million and $0.53 , respectively, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2015 . 22 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES HISTORICAL SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Seasonality of Cash Flows The Company's business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters ("Spring") and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters ("Fall"). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back-to-School and Holiday sales periods. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operating expenses throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a revolving credit facility available as a source of additional funding. Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured revolving credit facility with availability of up to $400 million (the "ABL Facility"), subject to a borrowing base. The ABL Facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The ABL Facility will mature on August 7, 2019. No borrowings were outstanding under the ABL Facility as of April 30, 2016 . Amounts borrowed under the ABL Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at either an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 1.75% per annum, or an alternate base rate plus a margin of 0.25% to 0.75% per annum based on average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter. The Company is also required to pay a fee of 0.25% per annum on undrawn commitments under the ABL Facility. Customary agency fees and letter of credit fees are also payable in respect of the ABL Facility. As of April 30, 2016 , the borrowing base on the ABL Facility was $279.8 million . As of June 2, 2016, the Company had not drawn on the ABL Facility, but had approximately $2.0 million in outstanding stand-by letters of credit under the ABL Facility. Term Loan Facility The Company is also party to a term loan agreement, which provides for a term loan facility of $300 million (the "Term Loan Facility" and, together with the ABL Facility, the "2014 Credit Facilities"). The Term Loan Facility was issued at a $3 million or 1.0% discount. In addition, the Company recorded deferred financing fees associated with the issuance of the 2014 Credit Facilities of $5.8 million in aggregate, of which $3.2 million was paid to lenders. The Company is amortizing the debt discount and deferred financing fees over the respective contractual terms of the 2014 Credit Facilities. The Company's Term Loan debt is presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, net of the unamortized discount and fees paid to lenders. Net borrowings as of April 30, 2016 were as follows: The Term Loan Facility will mature on August 7, 2021 and amortizes at a rate equal to 0.25%of the original principal amount per quarter, beginning with the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2014. The Term Loan Facility is subject to (a) beginning in 2016, an annual mandatory prepayment in an amount equal to 0% to 50% of the Company's excess cash flows in the preceding fiscal year, depending on the Company's leverage ratio and (b) certain other mandatory prepayments upon receipt by the Company of proceeds of certain debt issuances, asset sales and casualty events, subject to certain exceptions specified therein, including reinvestment rights. The Company was not required to make any mandatory prepayments under the Term Loan Facility in Fiscal 2016. At the Company's option, borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will bear interest at either (a) an adjusted LIBOR rate no lower than 1.00% plus a margin of 3.75% per annum or (b) an alternate base rate plus a margin of 2.75% per annum. Customary agency fees are also payable in respect of the Term Loan Facility. The interest rate on borrowings under the Term Loan Facility was 4.75% as of April 30, 2016 . 23 Operating Activities Net cash used by operating activities was $76.3 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 compared to $93.8 million for the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 . The year-over-year change in cash flow associated with operating activities was primarily the result of the return of a $22.8 million long-term lease deposit and a $19.0 million decrease in cash paid for income taxes, partially offset by incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of 2016. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 and May 2, 2015 were used primarily for new construction, store updates, information technology, and direct-to-consumer and omnichannel capabilities. Financing Activities For the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 , cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the payment of dividends of $13.5 million . For the thirteen weeks ended May 2, 2015 , cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the payment of dividends of $13.9 million . As of April 30, 2016 , A&F had approximately 6.5 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the A&F Board of Directors' previously approved authorizations. FUTURE CASH REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF CASH Over the next twelve months, the Company's primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, leases, taxes and other operating activities, as well as to fund capital expenditures and quarterly dividends to stockholders subject to approval by A&F's Board of Directors. The Company has availability under the ABL Facility as a source of additional funding. The Company expects total capital expenditures for Fiscal 2016 to be in the range of $150 million to $175 million, primarily for new stores, store remodels and direct-to-consumer and IT investments to support growth initiatives. The Company may continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock and would anticipate funding these cash requirements utilizing free cash flow generated from operations or proceeds from its existing credit facilities. As of April 30, 2016 , $272.1 million of the Company's $491.0 million of cash and equivalents was held by foreign affiliates. The Company is not dependent on dividends from its foreign affiliates to fund its U.S. operations or make distributions to A&F's stockholders. Unremitted earnings from foreign affiliates generally would become subject to U.S. income tax if remitted as dividends or lent to A&F or a U.S. affiliate. As of April 30, 2016 , a provision for U.S. income tax has not been recorded on $186.1 million of the cash and equivalents held by foreign affiliates which is considered indefinitely invested in foreign operations. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company uses, in the ordinary course of business, stand-by letters of credit under the existing ABL Facility. The Company had $2.0 million in stand-by letters of credit outstanding as of April 30, 2016 . The Company has no other off-balance sheet arrangements. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The Company's contractual obligations consist primarily of operating leases, purchase orders for merchandise inventory, unrecognized tax benefits, certain retirement obligations, lease deposits and other agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding and that require minimum quantities to be purchased. These contractual obligations impact the Company's short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. During the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 , there were no material changes in the contractual obligations as of January 30, 2016 , with the exception of those obligations which occurred in the normal course of business (primarily changes in the Company's merchandise inventory-related purchases and lease obligations, which fluctuate throughout the year as a result of the seasonal nature of the Company's operations). 24 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1, " BASIS OF PRESENTATION--RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS " of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in "ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS," of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2, " SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in "ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015. We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS", in our Annual Report on Form10-K for Fiscal 2015. There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of Fiscal 2015. 25 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or made by the Company, its management or spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, including the disclosures under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015 , in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for Fiscal 2016 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or otherwise made by management: changes in global economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, as well as other changes in consumer discretionary spending habits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity; our inability to anticipate customer demand and changing fashion trends and to manage our inventory commensurately could adversely impact our sales levels and profitability; a significant component of our growth strategy is international expansion, which requires significant capital investment, the success of which is dependent on a number of factors that could affect the profitability of our international operations; direct-to-consumer sales channels are a significant component of our growth strategy, and the failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our results of operations; our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours; we have currently suspended our search for a new Chief Executive Officer and the continuance of our interim governance structure may create uncertainty; our inability to successfully implement our strategic plans could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability; our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber-attacks, credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and reputation loss; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs; we depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture and delivery of all our merchandise, and a disruption of the manufacture or delivery of our merchandise could result in lost sales and could increase our costs; our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls or area attractions that our stores are located in or around; we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business; our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and third-party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers; our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets; fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; extreme weather conditions and the seasonal nature of our business may cause net sales to fluctuate and negatively impact our results of operations; our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results; the impact of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; our Asset-Based Revolving Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement include restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business; and, compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. 26 Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (Thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Thousands, except par value amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION Nature of Business Abercrombie& Fitch Co. ("A&F"), through its subsidiaries (collectively, A&F and its subsidiaries are referred to as "Abercrombie & Fitch" or the "Company"), is a specialty retailer of branded apparel and accessories. The Company operates stores in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East and direct-to-consumer operations in North America, Europe and Asia that serve its customers throughout the world. Principles of Consolidation The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include historical financial statements of, and transactions applicable to, the Company and reflect its assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has interests in a United Arab Emirates business venture and in a Kuwait business venture with Majid al Futtaim Fashion L.L.C. ("MAF"), each of which meets the definition of a variable interest entity ("VIE"). The Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of these VIEs; therefore, the Company has consolidated the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of these VIEs. Fiscal Year The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. All references herein to "Fiscal 2016 " and "Fiscal 2015 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal years ending on January 28, 2017 and ended on January 30, 2016 , respectively. Interim Financial Statements The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of July 30, 2016 , and for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 , are unaudited and are presented pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Accordingly, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto contained in A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015 filed with the SEC on March 28, 2016. The January 30, 2016 consolidated balance sheet data, included herein, were derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). In the opinion of management, the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments (which are of a normal recurring nature) necessary to state fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for Fiscal 2016 . 6 Recent Accounting Pronouncements The following table provides a brief description of recent accounting pronouncements that could affect the Company's financial statements: * Early adoption is permitted. 7 2. NET LOSS PER SHARE Net loss per basic and diluted share is computed based on the weighted-average number of outstanding shares of common stock. The following table presents weighted-average shares outstanding and anti-dilutive shares: (1) Reflects the total number of shares related to outstanding share-based compensation awards that have been excluded from the computation of net loss per diluted share because the impact would have been anti-dilutive. 3. FAIR VALUE Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The inputs used to measure fair value are prioritized based on a three-level hierarchy. The three levels of inputs to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1-inputs are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities that are available in active markets that the Company can access at the measurement date. Level 2-inputs are other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities, directly or indirectly. Level 3-inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable. The lowest level of significant input determines the placement of the entire fair value measurement in the hierarchy. The three levels of the hierarchy and the distribution within it of the Company's assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, were as follows: The Level 2 assets and liabilities consist of derivative financial instruments, primarily forward foreign currency exchange contracts. The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is determined by using quoted market prices of the same or similar instruments, adjusted for counterparty risk. 8 Fair value of borrowings: The Company's borrowings under the Company's credit facilities are carried at historical cost in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. For disclosure purposes, the Company estimated the fair value of borrowings outstanding based on market rates for similar types of debt, which are considered to be Level 2 inputs. The carrying amount and fair value of the Company's term loan facility were as follows: No borrowings were outstanding under the Company's senior secured revolving credit facility as of July 30, 2016 or January 30, 2016 . 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET Property and equipment, net consisted of: Long-lived assets, primarily comprised of leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the long-lived assets might not be recoverable. These include, but are not limited to, material declines in operational performance, a history of losses, an expectation of future losses, other than temporary adverse market conditions and store closure or relocation decisions. On at least a quarterly basis, the Company reviews for indicators of impairment at the individual store level, the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Stores that display an indicator of impairment are subjected to an impairment assessment. The Company's impairment assessment requires management to make assumptions and judgments related, but not limited, to management's expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in the Company's undiscounted future cash flow models include sales, gross margin and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. An impairment loss would be recognized when these undiscounted future cash flows are less than carrying amount of the asset group. In the circumstance of impairment, the loss would be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value. The key assumptions used in estimating the fair value of impaired assets may include projected cash flows and discount rate. In the second quarter of Fiscal 2016, the Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $6.4 million as it was determined that the carrying value of certain store assets would not be recoverable and exceeded fair value. These asset impairment charges are related to the Company's abercrombie kids flagship store in London. In the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015, the Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $6.1 million related to a decision to remove certain store fixtures in connection with changes to the Abercrombie and Hollister store experiences, and a fair value adjustment related to the Company-owned aircraft which was sold in the second quarter of Fiscal 2015. The Company had $38.1 million and $37.3 million of construction project assets in property and equipment, net at July 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016 , respectively, related to the construction of buildings in certain lease arrangements where the Company is deemed to be the owner of the construction project. 9 5. INCOME TAXES The Company's quarterly tax provision and the estimate of the annual effective tax rate are subject to significant variation due to several factors. These include variability in the pre-tax jurisdictional mix of earnings, changes in how the Company does business including entering into new businesses or geographies, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized and the impact of discrete items. The impact of these items on the effective tax rate will be greater at lower levels of pre-tax income (loss) . 6. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION The Company recognized share-based compensation expense of $4.4 million and $11.0 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 , respectively, and $7.2 million and $14.1 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended August 1, 2015 , respectively. The Company also recognized tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $1.7 million and $4.1 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 , respectively, and $2.5 million and $4.8 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended August 1, 2015 , respectively. Stock Options The following table summarizes stock option activity for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 : Stock Appreciation Rights The following table summarizes stock appreciation rights activity for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 : As of July 30, 2016 , there was $6.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to stock appreciation rights. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 14 months . The grant date fair value of stock appreciation rights that vested during the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 was $4.0 million and $4.2 million , respectively. 10 Restricted Stock Units The following table summarizes activity for restricted stock units for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 : Fair value of both service-based and performance-based restricted stock units is calculated using the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant reduced for anticipated dividend payments on unvested shares. In determining fair value, the Company does not take into account performance-based vesting requirements. Performance-based vesting requirements are taken into account in determining the number of awards expected to vest. For market-based restricted stock units, fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation with the number of shares that ultimately vest dependent on the Company's total stockholder return measured against the total stockholder return of a select group of peer companies over a three-year period. For an award with performance-based or market-based vesting requirements, the number of shares that ultimately vest can vary from 0% to 200% of target depending on the level of achievement of performance criteria. Unvested shares related to restricted stock units with performance-based vesting conditions are reflected at 100% of their target vesting amount in the table above. Service-based restricted stock units are expensed on a straight-line basis over the total requisite service period, net of forfeitures. Performance-based restricted stock units subject to graded vesting are expensed on an accelerated attribution basis, net of forfeitures. Market-based restricted stock units without graded vesting features are expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, net of forfeitures. As of July 30, 2016 , there was $48.8 million , $2.4 million and $3.5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 17 months , 16 months and 15 months for service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. Additional information pertaining to restricted stock units for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 follows: 11 The weighted-average assumptions used for market-based restricted stock units in the Monte Carlo simulation during the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 were as follows: 7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Company is exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, to manage the financial impacts of these exposures. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation and does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge the foreign currency exposure associated with forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales to foreign subsidiaries and the related settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany receivables. Fluctuations in exchange rates will either increase or decrease the Company's intercompany equivalent cash flows and affect the Company's U.S. Dollar earnings. Gains or losses on the foreign currency exchange forward contracts that are used to hedge these exposures are expected to partially offset this variability. Foreign currency exchange forward contracts represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed upon settlement date. These forward contracts typically have a maximum term of twelve months . The sale of the inventory to the Company's customers will result in the reclassification of related derivative gains and losses that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("AOCL"). Substantially all of the unrealized gains or losses related to designated cash flow hedges as of July 30, 2016 will be recognized in cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, over the next twelve months . The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities at their gross fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, our master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of July 30, 2016 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge either a portion, or all, of forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales, the resulting settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany accounts receivable, or both: (1) Amounts are reported in U.S. Dollars equivalent as of July 30, 2016 . The Company also uses foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities. Examples of monetary assets/liabilities include cash balances, receivables and payables. Fluctuations in exchange rates result in transaction gains/(losses) being recorded in earnings as U.S. GAAP requires that monetary assets/liabilities be remeasured at the spot exchange rate at quarter-end or upon settlement. The Company has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments because there are no differences in the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instruments and the hedged items. 12 As of July 30, 2016 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities: (1) Amounts are reported in U.S. Dollars equivalent as of July 30, 2016 . The location and amounts of derivative fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of July 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016 were as follows: Refer to Note 3, " FAIR VALUE, " for further discussion of the determination of the fair value of derivative financial instruments. 13 The location and amounts of derivative gains and losses for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss were as follows: (1) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in spot rates. (2) The amount represents the reclassification from AOCL into earnings when the hedged item affects earnings, which is when merchandise is sold to the Company's customers. (3) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in the difference between the spot price and forward price that is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and, therefore, recognized in earnings. 14 8. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 was as follows: (1) For the thirteen weeks ended July 30, 2016 , a gain was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization line item on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. For the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 , a loss was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to the cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization line item on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended August 1, 2015 was as follows: (2) For the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended August 1, 2015 , a loss was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 15 9. SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has two operating segments: Abercrombie, which includes the Company's Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands; and Hollister. These operating segments have similar economic characteristics, classes of consumers, products, and production and distribution methods, and have been aggregated into one reportable segment. The following table provides the Company's net sales by operating segment for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 . The following table provides the Company's net sales by geographic area for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 . 10. CONTINGENCIES The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. The Company's assessment of the current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts with respect to legal matters pending against the Company or determinations by judges, juries, administrative agencies or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with the Company's evaluation of claims. As of July 30, 2016 , the Company had accrued charges of approximately $10 million for certain legal contingencies. In addition, there are certain claims and legal proceedings pending against the Company for which accruals have not been established. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, for the quarter ended July 30, 2016 , the Company recognized a $12.3 million gain in other operating income, net in connection with a settlement of certain economic loss claims associated with the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. 16 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW BUSINESS SUMMARY The Company is a specialty retailer that operates stores in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East and direct-to-consumer operations in North America, Europe and Asia that serve its customers throughout the world. The Company sells casual sportswear apparel, including knit tops and woven shirts, graphic t-shirts, fleece, jeans and woven pants, shorts, sweaters, and outerwear; personal care products; and accessories for men, women and kids under the Abercrombie& Fitch, abercrombie kids and Hollister brands. The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. Fiscal years are designated in the consolidated financial statements and notes by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. All references herein to "Fiscal 2016 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal year that will end on January 28, 2017 , and to "Fiscal 2015 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal year that ended January 30, 2016 . For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , net sales decreased 4% to $783.2 million from $817.8 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The gross profit rate for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 was 60.9% compared to 62.3% for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Operating loss was $10.8 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 compared to operating income of $2.0 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $13.1 million and $0.19 , respectively, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $0.8 million and $0.01 , respectively, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the Fiscal 2016 year-to-date period, net sales decreased 4% to $1.469 billion from $1.527 billion for the comparable period of Fiscal 2015 . The gross profit rate for the Fiscal 2016 year-to-date period was 61.5% compared to 60.3% for the comparable period of Fiscal 2015 . Operating loss was $65.7 million for the Fiscal 2016 year-to-date period compared to $88.2 million for the comparable period of Fiscal 2015 . Net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $52.7 million and $0.78 , respectively, for the Fiscal 2016 year-to-date period, compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $64.1 million and $0.92 , respectively, for the comparable period of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding certain items, the adjusted non-GAAP gross profit rate was 60.9% , operating loss was $16.7 million and net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $16.8 million and $0.25 , respectively, for the second quarter of 2016 , compared to adjusted non-GAAP gross profit rate of 62.0% , operating income of $16.5 million , and net income and net income per diluted share attributable to A&F of $8.6 million and $0.12 , respectively, for the second quarter of 2015 . Excluding certain items, adjusted non-GAAP gross profit rate was 61.5% , operating loss was $71.6 million and net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $56.4 million and $0.83 , respectively, for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , compared to adjusted non-GAAP gross profit rate of 61.9% , operating loss of $35.9 million , and net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $28.6 million and $0.41 , respectively, for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . As of July 30, 2016 , the Company had $455.6 million in cash and equivalents, and $293.3 million in gross borrowings outstanding under its term loan facility. Net cash used by operating activities was $57.9 million for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 . The Company also used cash of $58.0 million for capital expenditures and $27.0 million to pay dividends during the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 . 17 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes discussion of certain financial measures under "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. The Company believes that the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this "ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" are useful to investors as they provide a measure of the Company's operating performance as compared to historical periods, excluding the effect of certain items which the Company believes do not reflect its future operating outlook, and therefore supplements investors' understanding of comparability across periods. These non-GAAP financial measures should be used supplemental to, not as an alternative to, the Company's GAAP financial results, and may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For the purpose of this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. In addition, the following financial measures are disclosed on a GAAP basis and, as applicable, on a non-GAAP basis excluding items relating to asset impairment, claims settlement benefits, inventory write-down, net, legal settlement charges, store fixture disposal, profit improvement initiative, lease termination and store closure costs and restructuring benefit: cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization; gross profit; stores and distribution expense; marketing, general and administrative expense; other operating income, net; operating (loss) income; income tax (benefit) expense; effective tax rate; net loss attributable to A&F; and, net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F. Certain of these GAAP and non-GAAP measures are also expressed as a percentage of net sales. The income tax effect of non-GAAP items is calculated as the difference in income tax (benefit) expense with and without the non-GAAP adjustments to income before income taxes based upon the tax laws and statutory income tax rates of the affected tax jurisdictions. Management used these non-GAAP financial measures during the periods presented to assess the Company's performance and to develop expectations for future operating performance. 18 The tables below reconcile GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 . (1) Refer to "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" for details on excluded items. Due to the seasonal nature of the retail apparel industry, the results of operations for any current period are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full fiscal year. The seasonality of the Company's operations may also lead to significant fluctuations in certain asset and liability accounts. 19 CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Traffic remained a significant headwind for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 as flagship and tourist stores, which are concentrated in the Abercrombie brand, accounted for the vast majority of the comparable sales decline across brands and geographies. Comparable sales improvement from the first quarter in international markets, driven by a recovery in the Hollister European business, including in the U.K., was offset by a decline in the U.S. trend. In addition, we saw strong growth in our direct-to-consumer business, both domestically and internationally. During the quarter, we began to roll out programs that reflect our new brand positions for both the Abercrombie and Hollister brands. Our goal for Abercrombie is to be the iconic American casual luxury brand for today's twenty-something consumer, and our goal for Hollister is to be the iconic brand of the global teenage consumer. While still in the early stages, a clearly defined brand image and voice is beginning to be communicated across all customer touch points. As we look to the rest of the year, we expect the environment to remain challenging with flagship and tourist locations continuing to weigh on the business. We are confident, however, that we are focusing on the right priorities and we expect to see traction in our business over time as we introduce new product and invest in marketing to drive awareness and relevance for our brands. For Fiscal 2016, we now expect: Comparable sales to remain challenging through the second half of the year, with a disproportionate effect from flagship and tourist locations . Adverse effects from foreign currency exchange rates on sales and operating income. A gross margin rate flat to last year's adjusted non-GAAP rate of 61.9%, but down in the third quarter due to adverse effects from foreign currency . Operating expense dollars to be down slightly to last year's adjusted non-GAAP operating expense, with investments in marketing, skewed towards the third quarter, offset by savings from expense reduction efforts An effective tax rate in the mid-to-upper 30s . Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of approximately $5 million A weighted average diluted share count of approximately 68 million shares, excluding the effect of potential share buybacks . We expect capital expenditures to be at the low end of the range of $150 million to $175 million for the full year. We plan to open approximately 15 new stores in Fiscal 2016, including approximately 10 in international markets, primarily China, and approximately five in the U.S. We also plan to open six new outlet stores, primarily in the U.S. In addition, we anticipate closing up to 60 stores in the U.S. during the fiscal year through natural lease expirations. Excluded from our outlook are the effects of certain potential items, including, but not limited to, insurance recoveries and impairments. 20 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS STORE ACTIVITY Store count and gross square footage by brand for the thirteen weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 , respectively, were as follows: (1) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. (2) Excludes one international franchise store as of July 30, 2016 and April 30, 2016. (3) Excludes two international franchise stores as of July 30, 2016 and April 30, 2016. 21 Store count and gross square footage by brand for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 , respectively, were as follows: (1) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. (2) Excludes one international franchise store as of July 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016. (3) Excludes two international franchise stores as of July 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016. 22 Net Sales (1) Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For the purpose of this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. (2) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. For the second quarter and year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , net sales decreased 4% compared to the second quarter and year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily attributable to a 4% decrease in comparable sales in each period, mainly driven by flagship and tourist stores across both brands and geographies. 23 Cost of Sales, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization (1) Inventory write-down charges related to a first quarter of Fiscal 2015 decision to accelerate the disposition of certain aged merchandise, net of recoveries realized during the second quarter Fiscal 2015. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 140 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the adverse effects from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of approximately 90 basis points and the net impact of higher average unit costs partially offset by higher average unit retails. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, second quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 110 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 110 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , which included a $24.2 million , net inventory write-down. Excluding the $24.2 million , net inventory write-down, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 40 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the adverse effects from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of approximately 80 basis points and the net impact of higher average unit cost partially offset by higher average unit retails. 24 Stores and Distribution Expense For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 130 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the deleveraging effect of negative comparable sales and higher direct-to-consumer expense, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, second quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 150 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 10 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales and higher direct-to-consumer expense, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 50 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare product for shipment and costs incurred to physically move product to the customer, associated with direct-to-consumer operations were $27.4 million as compared to $25.7 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , shipping and handling costs were $50.2 million as compared to $47.8 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare product for shipment to stores, were $10.3 million as compared to $11.0 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , handling costs were $20.7 million as compared to $21.9 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . Shipping and handling costs are included in stores and distribution expense on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 25 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 40 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 , which included $15.8 million of legal settlement charges. Excluding the $15.8 million of legal settlement charges, second quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 150 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to higher marketing and other expenses and the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 50 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , which included $15.8 million of legal settlement charges. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 170 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to higher marketing and other expenses and the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales. Restructuring Benefit For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , benefits associated with the restructuring of the Gilly Hicks brand were $1.6 million . Asset Impairment For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , the Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $6.4 million related to the Company's abercrombie kids flagship store in London, compared to none for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , the Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $6.4 million compared to $6.1 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , the asset impairment charges primarily related to a decision to remove certain store fixtures in connection with changes to the Abercrombie and Hollister store experiences. 26 Other Operating Income, Net (1) Includes benefits related to related to a settlement of certain economic loss claims associated with the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , other operating income, net was $13.1 million and included $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits, as compared to $1.1 million for the second quarter Fiscal 2015 . Excluding the $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits, second quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP other operating income, net as a percentage of net sales was approximately flat as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , other operating income, net was $16.0 million and included $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits, as compared to $3.1 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding the $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP other operating income, net as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 10 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . 27 Operating (Loss) Income (1) Includes charges related to store asset impairment. (2) Includes benefits related to related to a settlement of certain economic loss claims associated with the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. (3) Accrued expense for certain proposed legal settlements. (4) Includes inventory write-down charge related to a decision to accelerate the disposition of certain aged merchandise, net of recoveries. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016, the Company incurred an operating loss as a percent of net sales of approximately 140 basis points as compared to operating income as a percent of net sales of approximately 20 basis points for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015. The year-over-year change in rate was primarily driven by the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales, a reduction in the gross profit rate and higher marketing and direct-to-consumer expenses, partially offset by the net year-over-year impact of certain items presented in the above table. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, second quarter of Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of net sales was approximately 210 basis points as compared to adjusted non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of net sales of approximately 200 basis points for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , operating loss as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 130 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily driven by the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales, a reduction in the gross profit rate and higher marketing and direct-to-consumer expenses, partially offset by the net year-over-year impact of certain items presented in the above table and expense reduction efforts. Excluding certain items, presented in the table above, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 250 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . 28 Interest Expense, Net Income Tax (Benefit) Expense (1) Refer to " Operating (Loss) Income " for details of excluded items. The Company computed the tax effect of excluded items based on non-GAAP pre-tax (loss) income. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , the effective tax rate was 22.6% as compared to 123.5% for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The change in tax rate was primarily driven by the change in the level and mix of consolidated pretax income between operating and valuation allowance jurisdictions. Excluding certain items, as presented above in the table under " Operating (Loss) Income ," the second quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate was 26.8% as compared to 16.0% for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , the effective tax rate was 32.4% as compared to 35.7% for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . The decrease in rate was primarily due to the change in mix of consolidated pretax income as well as the recognition of deferred U.S. income taxes on net income generated after October 31, 2015. Excluding certain items, as presented above in the table under " Operating (Loss) Income ," year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate was 32.8% as compared to 39.7% for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . 29 Net (Loss) Income and Net (Loss) Income per Share Attributable to A&F For the second quarter of Fiscal 2016, net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $13.1 million and $0.19 , respectively, as compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $0.8 million and $0.01 , respectively, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding certain items, as presented above under " Operating (Loss) Income , " and " Income Tax (Benefit) Expense , " second quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $16.8 million and $0.25 , respectively, as compared to adjusted non-GAAP net income and net income per diluted share attributable to A&F of $8.6 million and $0.12 , respectively, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016, net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $52.7 million and $0.78 , respectively, as compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $64.1 million and $0.92 , respectively, for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding certain items, as presented above under " Operating (Loss) Income , " and " Income Tax (Benefit) Expense , " year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $56.4 million and $0.83 , respectively, as compared to $28.6 million and $0.41 for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . 30 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES HISTORICAL SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Seasonality of Cash Flows The Company's business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters ("Spring") and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters ("Fall"). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back-to-School and Holiday sales periods. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operating expenses throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a revolving credit facility available as a source of additional funding. Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured revolving credit facility with availability of up to $400 million (the "ABL Facility"), subject to a borrowing base. The ABL Facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The ABL Facility will mature on August 7, 2019. No borrowings were outstanding under the ABL Facility as of July 30, 2016 . Amounts borrowed under the ABL Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at either an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 1.75% per annum, or an alternate base rate plus a margin of 0.25% to 0.75% per annum based on average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter. The Company is also required to pay a fee of 0.25% per annum on undrawn commitments under the ABL Facility. Customary agency fees and letter of credit fees are also payable in respect of the ABL Facility. As of July 30, 2016 , the borrowing base on the ABL Facility was $312.9 million . As of September 1, 2016, the Company had not drawn on the ABL Facility, but had approximately $1.8 million in outstanding stand-by letters of credit under the ABL Facility. Term Loan Facility The Company is also party to a term loan agreement, which provides for a term loan facility of $300 million (the "Term Loan Facility" and, together with the ABL Facility, the "2014 Credit Facilities"). The Term Loan Facility was issued at a $3 million or 1.0% discount. In addition, the Company recorded deferred financing fees associated with the issuance of the 2014 Credit Facilities of $5.8 million in aggregate, of which $3.2 million was paid to lenders. The Company is amortizing the debt discount and deferred financing fees over the respective contractual terms of the 2014 Credit Facilities. The Company's Term Loan debt is presented in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, net of the unamortized discount and fees paid to lenders. Net borrowings as of July 30, 2016 were as follows: The Term Loan Facility will mature on August 7, 2021 and amortizes at a rate equal to 0.25%of the original principal amount per quarter, beginning with the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2014. The Term Loan Facility is subject to (a) beginning in 2016, an annual mandatory prepayment in an amount equal to 0% to 50% of the Company's excess cash flows in the preceding fiscal year, depending on the Company's leverage ratio and (b) certain other mandatory prepayments upon receipt by the Company of proceeds of certain debt issuances, asset sales and casualty events, subject to certain exceptions specified therein, including reinvestment rights. The Company was not required to make any mandatory prepayments under the Term Loan Facility in Fiscal 2016. At the Company's option, borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will bear interest at either (a) an adjusted LIBOR rate no lower than 1.00% plus a margin of 3.75% per annum or (b) an alternate base rate plus a margin of 2.75% per annum. Customary agency fees are also payable in respect of the Term Loan Facility. The interest rate on borrowings under the Term Loan Facility was 4.75% as of July 30, 2016 . 31 Operating Activities Net cash used by operating activities was $57.9 million for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 compared to $20.8 million for the twenty-six weeks ended August 1, 2015 . The year-over-year change in cash flow associated with operating activities was primarily the result of the extension of vendor payment terms in the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 and incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016, partially offset by the return of a $22.8 million long-term lease deposit and a $22.4 million decrease in cash paid for income taxes in Fiscal 2016. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 were used primarily for new construction, store updates, information technology, and direct-to-consumer and omnichannel capabilities. Financing Activities Cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the payment of dividends of $27.0 million and $27.8 million for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 and August 1, 2015 , respectively. As of July 30, 2016 , A&F had approximately 6.5 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the A&F Board of Directors' previously approved authorization. FUTURE CASH REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF CASH Over the next twelve months, the Company's primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, leases, taxes and other operating activities, as well as to fund capital expenditures, marketing initiatives, quarterly dividends to stockholders subject to approval by A&F's Board of Directors and debt service requirements, including required repayments, if any, based on annual excess cash flows, as defined in the term loan agreement. The Company has availability under the ABL Facility as a source of additional funding. The Company expects total capital expenditures for Fiscal 2016 to be at the low end of the range of $150 million to $175 million, primarily for store remodels, new stores, direct-to-consumer and IT investments to support growth initiatives. The Company may continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock and would anticipate funding these cash requirements utilizing free cash flow generated from operations or proceeds from its existing credit facilities. As of July 30, 2016 , $275.1 million of the Company's $455.6 million of cash and equivalents was held by foreign affiliates. The Company is not dependent on dividends from its foreign affiliates to fund its U.S. operations or pay dividends to A&F's stockholders. Unremitted earnings from foreign affiliates generally would become subject to U.S. income tax if remitted as dividends or lent to A&F or a U.S. affiliate. As of July 30, 2016 , a provision for U.S. income tax has not been recorded on approximately $214 million of the cash and equivalents held by foreign affiliates which is considered indefinitely invested in foreign operations. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company uses, in the ordinary course of business, stand-by letters of credit under the existing ABL Facility. The Company had $1.8 million in stand-by letters of credit outstanding as of July 30, 2016 . The Company has no other off-balance sheet arrangements. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The Company's contractual obligations consist primarily of operating leases, purchase orders for merchandise inventory, unrecognized tax benefits, certain retirement obligations, lease deposits and other agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding and that require minimum quantities to be purchased. These contractual obligations impact the Company's short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. During the thirteen weeks ended July 30, 2016 , there were no material changes in the contractual obligations as of January 30, 2016 , with the exception of those obligations which occurred in the normal course of business (primarily changes in the Company's merchandise inventory-related purchases and lease obligations, which fluctuate throughout the year as a result of the seasonal nature of the Company's operations). 32 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1, " BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Recent Accounting Pronouncements " of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in "ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS," of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2, " SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in "ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015. We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS", in our Annual Report on Form10-K for Fiscal 2015. There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of Fiscal 2015. 33 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or made by the Company, its management or spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, including the disclosures under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015 , in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for Fiscal 2016 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or otherwise made by management: changes in global economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, as well as other changes in consumer discretionary spending habits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity; our inability to anticipate customer demand and changing fashion trends and to manage our inventory commensurately could adversely impact our sales levels and profitability; a significant component of our growth strategy is international expansion, which requires significant capital investment, the success of which is dependent on a number of factors that could affect the profitability of our international operations; direct-to-consumer sales channels are a significant component of our growth strategy, and the failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our results of operations; our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours; we have currently suspended our search for a new Chief Executive Officer and the continuance of our interim governance structure may create uncertainty; our inability to successfully implement our strategic plans could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability; our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber-attacks, credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and reputation loss; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs; we depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture and delivery of all our merchandise, and a disruption of the manufacture or delivery of our merchandise could result in lost sales and could increase our costs; our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls or area attractions that our stores are located in or around; we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business; our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and third-party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers; our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets; fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; extreme weather conditions and the seasonal nature of our business may cause net sales to fluctuate and negatively impact our results of operations; our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results; the impact of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; our Asset-Based Revolving Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement include restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business; and, compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. 34 Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) (Thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Thousands, except par value amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION Nature of Business Abercrombie& Fitch Co. ("A&F"), through its subsidiaries (collectively, A&F and its subsidiaries are referred to as "Abercrombie & Fitch" or the "Company"), is a specialty retailer of branded apparel and accessories. The Company operates stores in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East and direct-to-consumer operations in North America, Europe and Asia that serve its customers throughout the world. Principles of Consolidation The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include historical financial statements of, and transactions applicable to, the Company and reflect its assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has interests in a United Arab Emirates business venture and in a Kuwait business venture with Majid al Futtaim Fashion L.L.C. ("MAF"), each of which meets the definition of a variable interest entity ("VIE"). The Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of these VIEs; therefore, the Company has consolidated the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of these VIEs. Fiscal Year The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. All references herein to "Fiscal 2016 " and "Fiscal 2015 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal years ending on January 28, 2017 and ended on January 30, 2016 , respectively. Interim Financial Statements The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of October 29, 2016 , and for the thirteen and thirty-nine week periods ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015 , are unaudited and are presented pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Accordingly, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto contained in A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015 filed with the SEC on March 28, 2016. The January 30, 2016 consolidated balance sheet data, included herein, were derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). In the opinion of management, the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments (which are of a normal recurring nature) necessary to state fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for Fiscal 2016 . 6 Recent Accounting Pronouncements The following table provides a brief description of recent accounting pronouncements that could affect the Company's financial statements: * Early adoption is permitted. 7 2. NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE Net income (loss) per basic and diluted share is computed based on the weighted-average number of outstanding shares of common stock. The following table presents weighted-average shares outstanding and anti-dilutive shares: (1) Reflects the total number of shares related to outstanding share-based compensation awards that have been excluded from the computation of net income (loss) per diluted share because the impact would have been anti-dilutive. 3. FAIR VALUE Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The inputs used to measure fair value are prioritized based on a three-level hierarchy. The three levels of inputs to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1-inputs are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities that are available in active markets that the Company can access at the measurement date. Level 2-inputs are other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities, directly or indirectly. Level 3-inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable. The lowest level of significant input determines the placement of the entire fair value measurement in the hierarchy. The three levels of the hierarchy and the distribution within it of the Company's assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, were as follows: The Level 2 assets and liabilities consist of trust-owned life insurance policies and derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency exchange forward contracts. The fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts is determined by using quoted market prices of the same or similar instruments, adjusted for counterparty risk. 8 Fair value of borrowings: The Company's borrowings under the Company's credit facilities are carried at historical cost in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. For disclosure purposes, the Company estimated the fair value of borrowings outstanding based on market rates for similar types of debt, which are considered to be Level 2 inputs. The carrying amount and fair value of the Company's term loan facility were as follows: No borrowings were outstanding under the Company's senior secured revolving credit facility as of October 29, 2016 or January 30, 2016 . 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET Property and equipment, net consisted of: Long-lived assets, primarily comprised of leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the long-lived assets might not be recoverable. These include, but are not limited to, material declines in operational performance, a history of losses, an expectation of future losses, other than temporary adverse market conditions and store closure or relocation decisions. On at least a quarterly basis, the Company reviews for indicators of impairment at the individual store level, the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Stores that display an indicator of impairment are subjected to an impairment assessment. The Company's impairment assessment requires management to make assumptions and judgments related, but not limited, to management's expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in the Company's undiscounted future cash flow models include sales, gross margin and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. An impairment loss would be recognized when these undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset group. In the circumstance of impairment, the loss would be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value. The key assumptions used in estimating the fair value of impaired assets may include projected cash flows and discount rate. There were no non-cash asset impairment charges for the thirteen weeks ended October 29, 2016 . The Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $6.4 million for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 . The Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $12.1 million for the thirteen weeks ended October 31, 2015 and $18.2 million for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 31, 2015. The Company had $37.0 million and $37.3 million of construction project assets in property and equipment, net at October 29, 2016 and January 30, 2016 , respectively, related to the construction of buildings in certain lease arrangements where the Company is deemed to be the owner of the construction project. 9 5. INCOME TAXES The Company's quarterly tax provision and the estimate of the annual effective tax rate are subject to significant variation due to several factors. These include variability in the pre-tax jurisdictional mix of earnings, changes in how the Company does business including entering into new businesses or geographies, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized and the impact of discrete items. The impact of these items on the effective tax rate will be greater at lower levels of pre-tax income (loss) . 6. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION The Company recognized share-based compensation expense of $5.7 million and $16.7 million for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 , respectively, and $7.6 million and $21.7 million for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October 31, 2015 , respectively. The Company also recognized tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $2.2 million and $6.3 million for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 , respectively, and $2.6 million and $7.4 million for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October 31, 2015 , respectively. Stock Options The following table summarizes stock option activity for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 : Stock Appreciation Rights The following table summarizes stock appreciation rights activity for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 : As of October 29, 2016 , there was $3.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to stock appreciation rights. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 13 months . The grant date fair value of stock appreciation rights that vested during the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015 was $4.1 million and $4.5 million , respectively. 10 Restricted Stock Units The following table summarizes activity for restricted stock units for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 : Fair value of both service-based and performance-based restricted stock units is calculated using the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant reduced for anticipated dividend payments on unvested shares. In determining fair value, the Company does not take into account performance-based vesting requirements. Performance-based vesting requirements are taken into account in determining the number of awards expected to vest. For market-based restricted stock units, fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation with the number of shares that ultimately vest dependent on the Company's total stockholder return measured against the total stockholder return of a select group of peer companies over a three-year period. For an award with performance-based or market-based vesting requirements, the number of shares that ultimately vest can vary from 0% to 200% of target depending on the level of achievement of performance criteria. Unvested shares related to restricted stock units with performance-based vesting conditions are reflected at 100% of their target vesting amount in the table above. Service-based restricted stock units are expensed on a straight-line basis over the total requisite service period, net of forfeitures. Performance-based restricted stock units subject to graded vesting are expensed on an accelerated attribution basis, net of forfeitures. Market-based restricted stock units without graded vesting features are expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, net of forfeitures. As of October 29, 2016 , there was $30.7 million , $1.3 million and $3.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 16 months , 15 months and 14 months for service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. Additional information pertaining to restricted stock units for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015 follows: 11 The weighted-average assumptions used for market-based restricted stock units in the Monte Carlo simulation during the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015 were as follows: 7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Company is exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, to manage the financial impacts of these exposures. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation and does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge the foreign currency exposure associated with forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales to foreign subsidiaries and the related settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany receivables. Fluctuations in exchange rates will either increase or decrease the Company's intercompany equivalent cash flows and affect the Company's U.S. Dollar earnings. Gains or losses on the foreign currency exchange forward contracts that are used to hedge these exposures are expected to partially offset this variability. Foreign currency exchange forward contracts represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed upon settlement date. These forward contracts typically have a maximum term of twelve months . The sale of the inventory to the Company's customers will result in the reclassification of related derivative gains and losses that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("AOCL"). Substantially all of the unrealized gains or losses related to designated cash flow hedges as of October29, 2016 will be recognized in cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, over the next twelve months . The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities at their gross fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, the Company's master netting and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of October 29, 2016 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge either a portion, or all, of forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales, the resulting settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany accounts receivable, or both: (1) Amounts reported are the U.S. Dollar notional amounts outstanding as of October29, 2016 . The Company also uses foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities. Examples of monetary assets/liabilities include cash balances, receivables and payables. Fluctuations in exchange rates result in transaction gains/(losses) being recorded in earnings as U.S. GAAP requires that monetary assets/liabilities be remeasured at the spot exchange rate at quarter-end or upon settlement. The Company has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments because there are no differences in the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instruments and the hedged items. 12 As of October29, 2016 , the Company had no outstanding foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities. The location and amounts of derivative fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October29, 2016 and January30, 2016 were as follows: Refer to Note 3, " FAIR VALUE, " for further discussion of the determination of the fair value of derivative instruments. The location and amounts of derivative gains and losses for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October29, 2016 and October31, 2015 on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) were as follows: (1) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in spot rates. (2) The amount represents the reclassification from AOCL into earnings when the hedged item affects earnings, which is when merchandise is sold to the Company's customers. (3) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in the difference between the spot price and forward price that is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and, therefore, recognized in earnings. 13 8. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October29, 2016 was as follows: (1) For the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October29, 2016 , a loss was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October 31, 2015 was as follows: (2) For the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October31, 2015 , a loss was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). 14 9. SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has two operating segments: Abercrombie, which includes the Company's Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands; and Hollister. These operating segments have similar economic characteristics, classes of consumers, products, and production and distribution methods, and have been aggregated into one reportable segment. The following table provides the Company's net sales by operating segment for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October29, 2016 and October31, 2015 . The following table provides the Company's net sales by geographic area for the thirteen and thirty-nine weeks ended October29, 2016 and October31, 2015 . 10. CONTINGENCIES The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. The Company's assessment of the current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts. As of October29, 2016, the Company had accrued charges of approximately $4 million for certain legal contingencies. In addition, there are certain claims and legal proceedings pending against the Company for which accruals have not been established. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On November 11, 2016, the Company exercised a lease kick-out option for its A&F flagship store in Hong Kong. The Company expects the closure of this store to be substantially complete by the end of the second quarter of Fiscal 2017. As a result of this decision, the Company expects to incur a lease termination charge of approximately $16 million during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2016. In addition, the Company estimates the net cash outflow associated with this lease termination to be approximately $16 million , consisting of two payments of approximately $8 million each, with the first payment expected to be paid in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2016 and the second payment expected to be paid in the second quarter of Fiscal 2017. 15 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW BUSINESS SUMMARY The Company is a specialty retailer that operates stores in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East and direct-to-consumer operations in North America, Europe and Asia that serve its customers throughout the world. The Company sells casual sportswear apparel, including knit tops and woven shirts, graphic t-shirts, fleece, jeans and woven pants, shorts, sweaters, and outerwear; personal care products; and accessories for men, women and kids under the Abercrombie& Fitch, abercrombie kids and Hollister brands. The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. Fiscal years are designated in the consolidated financial statements and notes by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. All references herein to "Fiscal 2016 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal year that will end on January 28, 2017 , and to "Fiscal 2015 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal year that ended January 30, 2016 . Due to the seasonal nature of the retail apparel industry, the results of operations for any current period are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full fiscal year. The seasonality of the Company's operations may also lead to significant fluctuations in certain asset and liability accounts. SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The table below summarizes the Company's results of operations and reconciles GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures for the thirteen and thirty-nine week periods ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015 . Additional discussion about why the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors is provided below under "NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES." (1) Refer to "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" for details on excluded items. (2) Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For inclusion in this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. As of October29, 2016 , the Company had $469.7 million in cash and equivalents, and $293.3 million in gross borrowings outstanding under its term loan facility. Net cash provided by operating activities was $21.4 million for the thirty-nine weeks ended October29, 2016 . The Company also used cash of $96.8 million for capital expenditures and $40.5 million to pay dividends during the thirty-nine weeks ended October29, 2016 . 16 CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK The Company's results for the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 reflect improvement in Hollister from last quarter that was more than offset by a decline in A&F performance, as flagship and tourist locations continued to be a major headwind, particularly in international markets. In addition, gross margin was pressured, as an A&F assortment weighted toward seasonal categories underperformed, resulting in greater than expected promotional activity. In Hollister, comparable sales improved throughout the quarter and we expect the comparable sales trend to further improve in the fourth quarter. For the A&F brand, we began to articulate a redefined identity during the quarter. While we anticipate the A&F business will remain challenging through the balance of the fiscal year, we continue to evolve the brand through significant changes in product, customer experience and marketing. For the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2016, we expect: Comparable sales to be challenging, but modestly improved from the third quarter . Continued adverse impact from foreign currency on sales and operating income . A gross margin rate down slightly to last year's adjusted non-GAAP rate of 60.7%, driven by lower average unit retail, partially offset by lower average unit cost . Operating expense, including a lease termination charge of approximately $16 million, to be up about 1% from last year's adjusted non-GAAP operating expense of $554 million, with the lease termination charge partially offset by savings from lower sales and expense reduction efforts . A weighted average diluted share count of approximately 68 million shares, excluding the effect of potential share buybacks . For the full year, the Company expects the effective tax rate to remain sensitive at lower levels of pre-tax earnings. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $140 million for the full year. In addition to the 13 stores opened year-to-date, including five outlet stores, we plan to open seven new stores in the fourth quarter, including five in China and two in the U.S. We also anticipate closing approximately 35 stores in the U.S. in the fourth quarter through natural lease expirations, in addition to the 15 stores closed year-to-date. Excluded from the Company's outlook are the effects of certain potential items, such as asset impairment charges, litigation charges and insurance recoveries. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes discussion of certain financial measures under "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. The Company believes that each of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this "ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" are useful to investors as they provide a measure of the Company's operating performance excluding the effect of certain items which the Company believes do not reflect its future operating outlook, and therefore supplements investors' understanding of comparability across periods. Management used these non-GAAP financial measures during the periods presented to assess the Company's performance and to develop expectations for future operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures should be used supplemental to, not as an alternative to, the Company's GAAP financial results, and may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For the purpose of this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. In addition, the following financial measures are disclosed on a GAAP basis and, as applicable, on a non-GAAP basis excluding items relating to asset impairment, indemnification recovery, claims settlement benefits, inventory write-down, net, legal settlement charges, store fixture disposal, profit improvement initiative, lease termination and store closure costs and restructuring benefit: cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization; gross profit; stores and distribution expense; marketing, general and administrative expense; other operating income, net; operating income (loss); income tax expense (benefit); effective tax rate; net income (loss) attributable to A&F; and net income (loss) per diluted share attributable to A&F. Certain of these GAAP and non-GAAP measures are also expressed as a percentage of net sales. The income tax effect of non-GAAP items is calculated as the difference in income tax expense (benefit) with and without the non-GAAP adjustments to income before income taxes based upon the tax laws and statutory income tax rates of the affected tax jurisdictions. 17 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS STORE ACTIVITY Store count and gross square footage by brand for the thirteen weeks ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015 , respectively, were as follows: (1) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. (2) Excludes one international franchise store as of October 29, 2016 and July 30, 2016 . (3) Excludes three international franchise stores as of October 29, 2016 , two international franchise stores as of July 30, 2016 and October 31, 2015 and one international franchise store as of August 1, 2015. 18 Store count and gross square footage by brand for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015 , respectively, were as follows: (1) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. (2) Excludes one international franchise store as of October 29, 2016 and January 30, 2016. (3) Excludes three international franchise stores as of October 29, 2016 and two international franchise stores as of January 30, 2016 and October 31, 2015. 19 Net Sales (1) Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For inclusion in this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. (2) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , net sales decreased 6% compared to the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 , primarily attributable to a 6% decrease in comparable sales, driven by the Abercrombie brand. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , net sales decreased 5% compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily attributable to a 5% decrease in comparable sales, mainly driven by the Abercrombie brand. 20 Cost of Sales, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization (1) Inventory write-down charges related to a first quarter of Fiscal 2015 decision to accelerate the disposition of certain aged merchandise, net of recoveries. For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 160 basis points compared to the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the adverse effects from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of approximately 60 basis points and the net impact of lower average unit retail partially offset by lower average unit cost. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 10 basis points compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , which included a $21.7 million net inventory write-down. Excluding the $21.7 million net inventory write-down, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 80 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the adverse effects from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of approximately 80 basis points and the net impact of higher average unit cost substantially offset by higher average unit retail. 21 Stores and Distribution Expense For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 230 basis points compared to the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales and higher direct-to-consumer expense, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 90 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales and higher direct-to-consumer expense, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. Excluding certain items presented in the table above, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 120 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare product for shipment and costs incurred to physically move product to the customer, associated with direct-to-consumer operations were $27.1 million as compared to $24.9 million for the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , shipping and handling costs were $77.3 million as compared to $72.6 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare product for shipment to stores, were $10.6 million as compared to $11.1 million for the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , handling costs were $31.3 million as compared to $33.0 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . Shipping and handling costs are included in stores and distribution expense on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). 22 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense (1) Includes benefits related to an indemnification recovery of certain legal settlements which were recognized in the second quarter of Fiscal 2015. For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 60 basis points as compared to the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to expense reduction efforts and the $6.0 million indemnification recovery in the third quarter of Fiscal 2016, partially offset by the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales and higher marketing expenses. Excluding certain items presented in the table above, third quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 10 basis points as compared to the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 10 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily due to the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales and higher marketing expenses, partially offset by the net year-over-year impact of certain items presented in the above table and expense reduction efforts. Excluding certain items presented in the table above, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 110 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . Restructuring Benefit For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , benefits associated with the restructuring of the Gilly Hicks brand were $1.6 million . Asset Impairment For the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 , the Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $12.1 million , primarily related to the Company's Abercrombie & Fitch flagship store in Hong Kong. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , the Company incurred non-cash asset impairment charges of $6.4 million related to the Company's abercrombie kids flagship store in London, compared to $18.2 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , primarily related to the Company's Abercrombie & Fitch flagship store in Hong Kong and a decision to remove certain store fixtures in connection with changes to the Abercrombie and Hollister store experiences. 23 Other Operating Income, Net (1) Includes benefits related to a settlement of certain economic loss claims associated with the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , other operating income, net was $0.8 million as compared to $3.9 million for the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , other operating income, net was $16.8 million and included $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits, as compared to $7.0 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding the $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP other operating income, net as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 10 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . 24 Operating Income (Loss) (1) Includes benefits related to an indemnification recovery of certain legal settlements which were recognized in the second quarter of Fiscal 2015. (2) Includes benefits related to a settlement of certain economic loss claims associated with the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. (3) Includes inventory write-down charges related to a first quarter of Fiscal 2015 decision to accelerate the disposition of certain aged merchandise, net of recoveries. (4) Accrued expense for certain proposed legal settlements. For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , operating income as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 230 basis points as compared to the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 , primarily driven by the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales, a reduction in the gross profit rate, higher marketing and direct-to-consumer expenses, partially offset by the net year-over-year impact of certain items presented in the above table. Excluding certain items presented in the table above, third quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of sales decreased approximately 420 basis points as compared to the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , operating loss as a percent of net sales was approximately flat as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 , as the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales, a reduction in the gross profit rate and higher marketing and direct-to-consumer expenses was offset by the net year-over-year impact of certain items presented in the above table and expense reduction efforts. Excluding certain items presented in the table above, year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of net sales was approximately 250 basis points as compared to adjusted non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of net sales of approximately 60 basis points for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . 25 Interest Expense, Net Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (1) Refer to " Operating Income (Loss) " for details of excluded items. The Company computed the tax effect of excluded items as the difference between the effective tax rate calculated with and without the non-GAAP adjustments on income (loss) before taxes and provision for income taxes. For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , the Company's income tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes, which is sensitive at lower levels of pre-tax earnings, was 45.0% as compared to the Company's income tax benefit as a percentage of loss before taxes of 16.2% for the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . The change in tax rate was primarily driven by changes in level and mix of consolidated pre-tax income amongst operating jurisdictions as well as a release of a valuation allowance in the prior year. Excluding certain items presented above in the table under " Operating Income (Loss) ," the third quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate was 80.1% as compared to 28.3% for the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , the effective tax rate was 29.3% as compared to 66.7% for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . The change in tax rate was primarily due to changes in mix of consolidated pre-tax income amongst operating jurisdictions as well as the recognition of deferred U.S. income taxes on net income generated after October 31, 2015, as well as a release of a valuation allowance in the prior year. Excluding certain items presented above in the table under " Operating Income (Loss) ," year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP income tax expense as a percentage of loss before taxes was 26.9% as compared to adjusted non-GAAP income tax benefit as a percentage of loss before taxes of 330.8% for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . Net Income (Loss) and Net Income (Loss) per Share Attributable to A&F For the third quarter of Fiscal 2016 , net income and net income per diluted share attributable to A&F were $7.9 million and $0.12 , respectively, as compared to net income and net income per diluted share attributable to A&F of $41.9 million and $0.60 , respectively, for the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding certain items presented above under " Operating Income (Loss) , " and " Income Tax Expense (Benefit) , " third quarter Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP net income and net income per diluted share attributable to A&F 26 were $1.4 million and $0.02 , respectively, as compared to adjusted non-GAAP net income and net income per diluted share attributable to A&F of $32.9 million and $0.48 , respectively, for the third quarter of Fiscal 2015 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $44.8 million and $0.66 , respectively, as compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $22.2 million and $0.32 , respectively, for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . Excluding certain items presented above under " Operating Income (Loss) , " and " Income Tax Expense (Benefit) , " year-to-date Fiscal 2016 adjusted non-GAAP net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $55.0 million and $0.81 , respectively, as compared to adjusted non-GAAP net income and net income per diluted share attributable to A&F $4.3 million and $0.06 for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2015 . LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES HISTORICAL SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Seasonality of Cash Flows The Company's business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters ("Spring") and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters ("Fall"). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back-to-School and Holiday sales periods. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operations throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a revolving credit facility available as a source of additional funding. Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured revolving credit facility with availability of up to $400 million (the "ABL Facility"), subject to a borrowing base. The ABL Facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The ABL Facility will mature on August 7, 2019. No borrowings were outstanding under the ABL Facility as of October 29, 2016 . Amounts borrowed under the ABL Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at either an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 1.75% per annum, or an alternate base rate plus a margin of 0.25% to 0.75% per annum based on average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter. The Company is also required to pay a fee of 0.25% per annum on undrawn commitments under the ABL Facility. Customary agency fees and letter of credit fees are also payable in respect of the ABL Facility. As of October 29, 2016 , the borrowing base on the ABL Facility was $360.3 million . As of December 1, 2016, the Company had not drawn on the ABL Facility, but had approximately $1.7 million in outstanding stand-by letters of credit under the ABL Facility. Term Loan Facility The Company is also party to a term loan agreement, which provides for a term loan facility of $300 million (the "Term Loan Facility" and, together with the ABL Facility, the "2014 Credit Facilities"). The Term Loan Facility was issued at a $3 million or 1.0% discount. In addition, the Company recorded deferred financing fees associated with the issuance of the 2014 Credit Facilities of $5.8 million in aggregate, of which $3.2 million was paid to lenders. The Company is amortizing the debt discount and deferred financing fees over the respective contractual terms of the 2014 Credit Facilities. The Company's Term Loan debt is presented in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, net of the unamortized discount and fees paid to lenders. Net borrowings as of October 29, 2016 were as follows: 27 The Term Loan Facility will mature on August 7, 2021 and amortizes at a rate equal to 0.25%of the original principal amount per quarter, beginning with the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2014. The Term Loan Facility is subject to (a) beginning in 2016, an annual mandatory prepayment in an amount equal to 0% to 50% of the Company's excess cash flows in the preceding fiscal year, depending on the Company's leverage ratio and (b) certain other mandatory prepayments upon receipt by the Company of proceeds of certain debt issuances, asset sales and casualty events, subject to certain exceptions specified therein, including reinvestment rights. The Company was not required to make any mandatory prepayments under the Term Loan Facility in Fiscal 2016. At the Company's option, borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will bear interest at either (a) an adjusted LIBOR rate no lower than 1.00% plus a margin of 3.75% per annum or (b) an alternate base rate plus a margin of 2.75% per annum. Customary agency fees are also payable pursuant to the Term Loan Facility. The interest rate on borrowings under the Term Loan Facility was 4.75% as of October 29, 2016 . Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $21.4 million for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 compared to $66.5 million for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 31, 2015 . The year-over-year change in cash flow associated with operating activities was primarily driven by greater net loss, adjusted for non-cash items, the extension of vendor payment terms in the second quarter of Fiscal 2015 and incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016, partially offset by a $24.6 million decrease in cash paid for income taxes and the return of a $22.8 million long-term lease deposit. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 and October 31, 2015 were used primarily for new construction, store updates, information technology, and direct-to-consumer and omnichannel capabilities. Financing Activities For the thirty-nine weeks ended October 29, 2016 , cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of dividend payments of $40.5 million . For the thirty-nine weeks ended October 31, 2015 , cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of the repurchase of approximately 2.5 million shares of A&F's Common Stock in the open market at a market value of approximately $50.0 million and dividend payments of $41.7 million . As of October 29, 2016 , A&F had approximately 6.5 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the A&F Board of Directors' previously approved authorizations. FUTURE CASH REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF CASH Over the next twelve months, the Company's primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, leases, taxes and other operating activities, as well as to fund capital expenditures, marketing initiatives, quarterly dividends to stockholders subject to approval by A&F's Board of Directors and debt service requirements, including required repayments, if any, based on annual excess cash flows, as defined in the term loan agreement. The Company has availability under the ABL Facility as a source of additional funding. The Company expects total capital expenditures for Fiscal 2016 to be approximately $140 million , primarily for store remodels, new stores, direct-to-consumer and IT investments to support growth initiatives. The Company may continue to repurchase shares of its Common Stock and would anticipate funding these cash requirements utilizing free cash flow generated from operations or proceeds from its existing credit facilities. As of October 29, 2016 , $270.6 million of the Company's $469.7 million of cash and equivalents was held by foreign affiliates. The Company is not dependent on dividends from its foreign affiliates to fund its U.S. operations or pay dividends to A&F's stockholders. Unremitted earnings from foreign affiliates generally would become subject to U.S. income tax if remitted as dividends or lent to A&F or a U.S. affiliate. As of October 29, 2016 , a provision for U.S. income tax has not been recorded on $90.0 million of the cash and equivalents held by foreign affiliates which is considered indefinitely invested in foreign operations. 28 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company uses, in the ordinary course of business, stand-by letters of credit under the existing ABL Facility. The Company had $1.8 million in stand-by letters of credit outstanding as of October 29, 2016 . The Company has no other off-balance sheet arrangements. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The Company's contractual obligations consist primarily of operating leases, purchase orders for merchandise inventory, unrecognized tax benefits, certain retirement obligations, lease deposits and other agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding and that require minimum quantities to be purchased. These contractual obligations impact the Company's short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. During the thirteen weeks ended October 29, 2016 , there were no material changes in the contractual obligations as of January 30, 2016 , with the exception of those obligations which occurred in the normal course of business (primarily changes in the Company's merchandise inventory-related purchases and lease obligations, which fluctuate throughout the year as a result of the seasonal nature of the Company's operations). RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1, " BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Recent Accounting Pronouncements " of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in "ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS," of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2, " SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in "ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015. We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS", in our Annual Report on Form10-K for Fiscal 2015. There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of Fiscal 2015. 29 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or made by the Company, its management or spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, including the disclosures under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2015 , in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for Fiscal 2016 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or otherwise made by management: changes in global economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, as well as other changes in consumer discretionary spending habits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity; our inability to anticipate customer demand and changing fashion trends and to manage our inventory commensurately could adversely impact our sales levels and profitability; a significant component of our growth strategy is international expansion, which requires significant capital investment, the success of which is dependent on a number of factors that could affect the profitability of our international operations; direct-to-consumer sales channels are a significant component of our growth strategy, and the failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our results of operations; our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours; we have currently suspended our search for a new Chief Executive Officer and the continuance of our interim governance structure may create uncertainty; our inability to successfully implement our strategic plans could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability; our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber-attacks, credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and reputation loss; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor and transportation, could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs; we depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture and delivery of all our merchandise, and a disruption of the manufacture or delivery of our merchandise could result in lost sales and could increase our costs; our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls or area attractions that our stores are located in or around; we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business; our reliance on two distribution centers domestically and third-party distribution centers internationally makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our distribution centers; our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets; fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; extreme weather conditions and the seasonal nature of our business may cause net sales to fluctuate and negatively impact our results of operations; our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results; the impact of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; our Asset-Based Revolving Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement include restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business; and, compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. 30 Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (Thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Thousands, except par value amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION Nature of Business Abercrombie& Fitch Co. ("A&F"), through its subsidiaries (collectively, A&F and its subsidiaries are referred to as "Abercrombie & Fitch" or the "Company"), is a specialty retailer of branded apparel and accessories. The Company operates through store and direct-to-consumer operations, as well as through various wholesale, franchise and licensing arrangements. The Company has operations in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Principles of Consolidation The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include historical financial statements of, and transactions applicable to, the Company and reflect its assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has interests in a United Arab Emirates business venture and in a Kuwait business venture with Majid al Futtaim Fashion L.L.C. ("MAF"), each of which meets the definition of a variable interest entity ("VIE"). The Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of these VIEs; therefore, the Company has consolidated the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of these VIEs. Fiscal Year The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. All references herein to "Fiscal 2017 " and "Fiscal 2016 " represent the fifty-three week fiscal year ending on February 3, 2018 and the fifty-two week fiscal year ended on January 28, 2017 , respectively. Interim Financial Statements The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of April 29, 2017 , and for the thirteen week periods ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 , are unaudited and are presented pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Accordingly, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto contained in A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2016 filed with the SEC on March27, 2017 . The January 28, 2017 consolidated balance sheet data, included herein, were derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). In the opinion of management, the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments (which are of a normal recurring nature) necessary to state fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for Fiscal 2017 . 6 Recent Accounting Pronouncements The following table provides a brief description of recent accounting pronouncements that could affect the Company's financial statements: * Early adoption is permitted. 7 2. NET LOSS PER SHARE Net loss per basic and diluted share is computed based on the weighted-average number of outstanding shares of common stock. The following table presents weighted-average shares outstanding and anti-dilutive shares: (1) Reflects the total number of shares related to outstanding share-based compensation awards that have been excluded from the computation of net loss per diluted share because the impact would have been anti-dilutive. 3. FAIR VALUE Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The inputs used to measure fair value are prioritized based on a three-level hierarchy. The three levels of inputs to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1-inputs are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities that are available in active markets that the Company can access at the measurement date. Level 2-inputs are other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities, directly or indirectly. Level 3-inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable. The lowest level of significant input determines the placement of the entire fair value measurement in the hierarchy. The three levels of the hierarchy and the distribution within it of the Company's assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, were as follows: 8 The Level 2 assets and liabilities consist of trust-owned life insurance policies and derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency exchange forward contracts. The fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts is determined by using quoted market prices of the same or similar instruments, adjusted for counterparty risk. Fair value of borrowings: The Company's borrowings under the Company's credit facilities are carried at historical cost in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. For disclosure purposes, the Company estimated the fair value of borrowings outstanding based on market rates for similar types of debt, which are considered to be Level 2 inputs. The carrying amount and fair value of the Company's term loan facility were as follows: No borrowings were outstanding under the Company's senior secured revolving credit facility as of April 29, 2017 or January 28, 2017 . 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET Property and equipment, net consisted of: Long-lived assets, primarily comprised of leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the long-lived assets might not be recoverable. These include, but are not limited to, material declines in operational performance, a history of losses, an expectation of future losses, adverse market conditions and store closure or relocation decisions. On at least a quarterly basis, the Company reviews for indicators of impairment at the individual store level, the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Stores that display an indicator of impairment are subjected to an impairment assessment. The Company's impairment assessment requires management to make assumptions and judgments related, but not limited, to management's expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in the Company's undiscounted future cash flow models include sales, gross profit and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. An impairment loss would be recognized when these undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset group. In the circumstance of impairment, the loss would be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value. The key assumptions used in estimating the fair value of impaired assets include projected cash flows and discount rate. The Company incurred asset impairment charges of $0.7 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 . There were no asset impairment charges for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 . The Company had $35.9 million and $35.6 million of construction project assets in property and equipment, net at April 29, 2017 and January 28, 2017 , respectively, related to the construction of buildings in certain lease arrangements where the Company is deemed to be the owner of the construction project. 9 5. INCOME TAXES The Company's quarterly tax provision and the estimate of the annual effective tax rate are subject to significant variation due to several factors. These include variability in the pre-tax jurisdictional mix of earnings, changes in how the Company does business including entering into new businesses or geographies, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized and the impact of discrete items. The impact of these items on the effective tax rate will be greater at lower levels of pre-tax income (loss). In the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, the provision for income taxes also differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate due to the tax effects of stock-based compensation. In the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, the Company adopted ASU 2016-09, "Compensation-Stock Compensation," which resulted in a discrete non-cash income tax charge of $9.3 million recognized in income tax benefit on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Refer to Note 1, " BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Recent Accounting Pronouncements " for further discussion regarding the adoption of this standard. 6. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION The Company recognized share-based compensation expense of $4.9 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and $6.6 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 . The tax benefit associated with share-based compensation expense was $1.9 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and $2.5 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 . Stock Options The following table summarizes stock option activity for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 : Stock Appreciation Rights The following table summarizes stock appreciation rights activity for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 : As of April 29, 2017 , there was $2.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to stock appreciation rights. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 11 months . The grant date fair value of stock appreciation rights that vested during the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 was $1.9 million and $3.7 million , respectively. 10 Restricted Stock Units The following table summarizes activity for restricted stock units for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 : (1) This includes 786,449 unvested restricted stock units as of April 29, 2017 that are subject to the requirement that the Company must achieve at least $1.00 of GAAP net income attributable to A&F for the fiscal year in order to vest. Fair value of both service-based and performance-based restricted stock units is calculated using the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant reduced for anticipated dividend payments on unvested shares. In determining fair value, the Company does not take into account performance-based vesting requirements. Performance-based vesting requirements are taken into account in determining the number of awards expected to vest. For market-based restricted stock units, fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation with the number of shares that ultimately vest dependent on the Company's total stockholder return measured against the total stockholder return of a select group of peer companies over a three-year period. For an award with performance-based or market-based vesting requirements, the number of shares that ultimately vest can vary from 0% to 200% of target depending on the level of achievement of performance criteria. Unvested shares related to restricted stock units with performance-based vesting conditions are reflected at 100% of their target vesting amount in the table above. Service-based restricted stock units are expensed on a straight-line basis over the total requisite service period, net of forfeitures. Performance-based restricted stock units subject to graded vesting are expensed on an accelerated attribution basis, net of forfeitures. Market-based restricted stock units without graded vesting features are expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, net of forfeitures. As of April 29, 2017 , there was $30.1 million , $4.9 million and $4.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 17 months , 18 months and 16 months for service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. The tax benefit associated with restricted stock vesting during the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 was $2.1 million and $4.9 million , respectively. Additional information pertaining to restricted stock units for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 follows: 11 The weighted-average assumptions used for market-based restricted stock units in the Monte Carlo simulation during the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 were as follows: 7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Company is exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, to manage the financial impacts of these exposures. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation and does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge the foreign currency exposure associated with forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales to foreign subsidiaries and the related settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany receivables. Fluctuations in exchange rates will either increase or decrease the Company's intercompany equivalent cash flows and affect the Company's U.S. Dollar earnings. Gains or losses on the foreign currency exchange forward contracts that are used to hedge these exposures are expected to partially offset this variability. Foreign currency exchange forward contracts represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed upon settlement date. These forward contracts typically have a maximum term of twelve months . The sale of the inventory to the Company's customers will result in the reclassification of related derivative gains and losses that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("AOCL"). Substantially all of the unrealized gains or losses related to designated cash flow hedges as of April29, 2017 will be recognized in cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, over the next twelve months . The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities at their gross fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, the Company's Master International Swap Dealers Association, Inc., Agreement and other similar arrangements allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of April 29, 2017 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge either a portion, or all, of forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales, the resulting settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany accounts receivable, or both: (1) Amounts reported are the U.S. Dollar notional amounts outstanding as of April29, 2017 . The Company also uses foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities. Examples of monetary assets/liabilities include cash balances, receivables and payables. Fluctuations in exchange rates result in transaction gains/(losses) being recorded in earnings as U.S. GAAP requires that monetary assets/liabilities be remeasured at the spot exchange rate at quarter-end or upon settlement. The Company has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments because there are no differences in the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instruments and the hedged items. 12 As of April 29, 2017 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities: (1) Amounts reported are the U.S. Dollar notional amounts outstanding as of April 29, 2017 . The location and amounts of derivative fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of April29, 2017 and January28, 2017 were as follows: Refer to Note 3, " FAIR VALUE, " for further discussion of the determination of the fair value of derivative instruments. The location and amounts of derivative gains and losses for the thirteen weeks ended April29, 2017 and April30, 2016 on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss were as follows: (1) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in spot rates. (2) The amount represents the reclassification from AOCL into earnings when the hedged item affects earnings, which is when merchandise is sold to the Company's customers. (3) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in the difference between the spot price and forward price that is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and, therefore, recognized in earnings. 13 8. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen weeks ended April29, 2017 was as follows: (1) For the thirteen weeks ended April29, 2017 , a gain was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 was as follows: (2) For the thirteen weeks ended April30, 2016 , a gain was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 9. SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has two operating segments: Hollister; and Abercrombie, which includes the Company's Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. These operating segments have similar economic characteristics, classes of consumers, products, and production and distribution methods, and have been aggregated into one reportable segment. The following table provides the Company's net sales by operating segment for the thirteen weeks ended April29, 2017 and April30, 2016 . 14 The following table provides the Company's net sales by geographic area for the thirteen weeks ended April29, 2017 and April30, 2016 . 10. CONTINGENCIES The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. The Company's assessment of the current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There are certain claims and legal proceedings pending against the Company for which accruals have not been established. 15 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW BUSINESS SUMMARY The Company is a specialty retailer who primarily sells its products through store and direct-to-consumer operations, as well as through various wholesale, franchise and licensing arrangements. The Company offers a broad array of apparel products, including knit tops, woven shirts, graphic t-shirts, fleece, sweaters, jeans, woven pants, shorts, outerwear, dresses, intimates and swimwear; and personal care products and accessories for men, women and kids under the Hollister, Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. The Company has operations in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. Fiscal years are designated in the consolidated financial statements and notes by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. All references herein to "Fiscal 2017 " represent the fifty-three week fiscal year that will end on February 3, 2018 , and to "Fiscal 2016 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal year that ended January 28, 2017 . Due to the seasonal nature of the retail apparel industry, the results of operations for any current period are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full fiscal year. The seasonality of the Company's operations may also lead to significant fluctuations in certain asset and liability accounts. SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The table below summarizes the Company's results of operations for the thirteen week periods ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 . (1) Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For inclusion in this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. As of April29, 2017 , the Company had $421.4 million in cash and equivalents and $268.3 million in gross borrowings outstanding under its term loan facility. Net cash used by operating activities was $84.3 million for the thirteen weeks ended April29, 2017 . The Company also used cash of $32.1 million for capital expenditures and $13.6 million to pay dividends during the thirteen weeks ended April29, 2017 . 16 CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Our results for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 reflect comparable sales improvement over the prior quarter in a continued challenging, promotional environment. Hollister, our largest brand, delivered an increase in comparable sales. At Abercrombie, sales results were in line with our expectations as we continue to lay the foundation for its revitalization. While we anticipate the second quarter retail environment to remain promotional and generally challenging, we expect comparable sales trend improvement in the second half of the year, as we gain traction from our strategic investments in marketing, loyalty programs and omnichannel capabilities. We continue to maintain a disciplined approach to our cost structure, with a balanced focus between dealing with short-term realities and driving towards our long-term ambition, and remain confident in our strategic direction and our ability to execute on our plans. For Fiscal 2017, we expect: Comparable sales to remain challenging in the second quarter, with trend improvement in the second half of the year . Continued adverse impact from foreign currency on sales and operating income . A gross profit rate down slightly to last year's adjusted non-GAAP rate of 61.0%, with continued pressure in the second quarter. Operating expense to be down at least 3% from last year's adjusted non-GAAP operating expense of $2.025 billion, with approximately 65% of the full year reduction to occur in the second half of the year . Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of approximately $4 million . A weighted average diluted share count of approximately 68 million shares, excluding the effect of potential share buybacks . For the full year, we expect the effective tax rate to reflect a core tax rate in the low 30s, which remains highly sensitive at lower levels of pre-tax earnings. Additionally, we expect discrete non-cash income tax charges for the full year of approximately $11 million primarily related to a change in share-based compensation accounting standards. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $100 million for the full year. We plan to open approximately seven full-price stores in Fiscal 2017, including six in the U.S. and one in international markets. We also plan to open two new outlet stores. In addition, we anticipate closing approximately 60 stores in the U.S. during the fiscal year through natural lease expirations. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes discussion of certain financial measures under "RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. The Company believes that each of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this "ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" are useful to investors as they provide a measure of the Company's operating performance excluding the effect of certain items which the Company believes do not reflect its future operating outlook, and therefore supplements investors' understanding of comparability across periods. Management used these non-GAAP financial measures during the periods presented to assess the Company's performance and to develop expectations for future operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures should be used supplemental to, not as an alternative to, the Company's GAAP financial results, and may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For the purpose of this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. 17 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS STORE ACTIVITY Store count and gross square footage by brand for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 , respectively, were as follows: (1) Excludes five international franchise stores as of April 29, 2017 , three international franchise stores as of January 28, 2017 and two international franchise stores as of April 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016. (2) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. Excludes three international franchise stores as of April 29, 2017 and one international franchise store as of January 28, 2017 , April 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016. THIRTEEN WEEKS ENDED APRIL 29, 2017 VERSUS THIRTEEN WEEKS ENDED APRIL 30, 2016 Net Sales (1) Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For inclusion in this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. (2) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , net sales decreased 4% as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily attributable to a 3% decrease in comparable sales, driven by the Abercrombie brand. 18 Cost of Sales, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 180 basis points as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to lower average unit retail, which includes the adverse effects from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of approximately 50 basis points, partially offset by lower average unit cost. Stores and Distribution Expense For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 60 basis points as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales and higher direct-to-consumer expense, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , shipping and handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare product for shipment and costs incurred to physically move product to the customer, associated with direct-to-consumer operations were $29.7 million as compared to $22.8 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , handling costs, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare product for shipment to stores, were $8.1 million as compared to $10.4 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . Shipping and handling costs are included in stores and distribution expense on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. Marketing, General and Administrative Expense For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 10 basis points as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to expense reduction efforts, partially offset by higher marketing expenses and the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales. Asset Impairment For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , the Company incurred asset impairment charges of $0.7 million . There were no asset impairment charges for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . 19 Other Operating Income, Net For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , other operating income, net as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 20 basis points as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to lower foreign currency related gains. Operating Loss For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , operating loss as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 260 basis points as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily driven by a reduction in the gross profit rate, the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales, and higher direct-to-consumer and marketing expenses, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. Interest Expense, Net Income Tax Benefit For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , the Company's income tax benefit as a percentage of loss before taxes was 17.6% as compared to 35.0% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . The change in tax rate was primarily driven by a discrete non-cash income tax charge of $9.3 million related to the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, as well as changes in the level and mix of consolidated pre-tax earnings between operating and valuation allowance jurisdictions. The Company's effective income tax rate remains sensitive at lower levels of full year pre-tax earnings. Net Loss and Net Loss per Share Attributable to A&F For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $61.7 million and $0.91 , respectively, as compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $39.6 million and $0.59 , respectively, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . 20 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES HISTORICAL SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Seasonality of Cash Flows The Company's business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season, which includes the first and second fiscal quarters ("Spring"), and the Fall season, which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters ("Fall"). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back-to-School and Holiday sales periods. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operations throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a revolving credit facility available as a source of additional funding. Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured revolving credit facility with availability of up to $400 million (the "ABL Facility"), subject to a borrowing base. The ABL Facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The ABL Facility will mature on August 7, 2019. No borrowings were outstanding under the ABL Facility as of April 29, 2017 . Amounts borrowed under the ABL Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at either an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 1.75% per annum, or an alternate base rate plus a margin of 0.25% to 0.75% per annum based on average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter. The Company is also required to pay a fee of 0.25% per annum on undrawn commitments under the ABL Facility. Customary agency fees and letter of credit fees are also payable in respect of the ABL Facility. As of April 29, 2017 , the borrowing base on the ABL Facility was $253.7 million . As of June1, 2017 , the Company had not drawn on the ABL Facility, but had approximately $1.8 million in outstanding stand-by letters of credit under the ABL Facility. Term Loan Facility The Company has a term loan agreement, which provides for a term loan facility of $300 million (the "Term Loan Facility" and, together with the ABL Facility, the "2014 Credit Facilities"). The Term Loan Facility was issued at a $3 million or 1.0% discount. In addition, the Company recorded deferred financing fees associated with the issuance of the 2014 Credit Facilities of $5.8 million in aggregate, of which $3.2 million was paid to lenders. The Company is amortizing the debt discount and deferred financing fees over the respective contractual terms of the 2014 Credit Facilities. The Company's Term Loan debt is presented in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, net of the unamortized discount and deferred financing fees. Net borrowings as of April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 were as follows: The Term Loan Facility will mature on August7, 2021 and amortizes at a rate equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount per quarter, beginning with the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2014. The Term Loan Facility is subject to (a) beginning in 2016, an annual mandatory prepayment in an amount equal to 0% to 50% of the Company's excess cash flows in the preceding fiscal year, depending on the Company's leverage ratio and (b) certain other mandatory prepayments upon receipt by the Company of proceeds of certain debt issuances, asset sales and casualty events, subject to certain exceptions specified therein, including reinvestment rights, less any voluntary payments made. The Company made a repayment of $25 million in January 2017, in prepayment of its scheduled Fiscal 2017 through Fiscal 2021 amortization and a portion of the amount of principal due at maturity. 21 At the Company's option, borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will bear interest at either (a) an adjusted LIBOR rate no lower than 1.00% plus a margin of 3.75% per annum or (b) an alternate base rate plus a margin of 2.75% per annum. Customary agency fees are also payable pursuant to the Term Loan Facility. The interest rate on borrowings under the Term Loan Facility was 4.75% as of April 29, 2017 . Operating Activities Net cash used by operating activities was $84.3 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 compared to $75.7 million for the thirteen weeks ended April 30, 2016 . The year-over-year change in cash flow associated with operating activities was primarily driven by greater net loss net of non-cash adjustments and lease deposits that were returned in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016, partially offset by year-over-year decreases in income tax and incentive compensation payments. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 included capital expenditures of $32.1 million and $26.0 million , respectively, primarily for store updates and new stores, as well as direct-to-consumer and omnichannel and information technology investments. Financing Activities For the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 and April 30, 2016 , cash outflows for financing activities consisted primarily of dividend payments of $13.6 million and $13.5 million , respectively. As of April 29, 2017 , A&F had approximately 6.5 million remaining shares available for repurchase as part of the A&F Board of Directors' previously approved authorization. FUTURE CASH REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF CASH Over the next twelve months, the Company's primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, leases, taxes and other operating activities, as well as to fund capital expenditures, marketing initiatives, quarterly dividends to stockholders subject to approval by A&F's Board of Directors and debt service requirements, including required repayments, if any, based on annual excess cash flows, as defined in the term loan agreement. The Company has availability under the ABL Facility as a source of additional funding. The Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $100 million for Fiscal 2017 , primarily for store updates and new stores, as well as direct-to-consumer and omnichannel and information technology investments to support growth initiatives. The Company may repurchase shares of its Common Stock and, if it were to do so, would anticipate funding such repurchases by utilizing free cash flow generated from operations or proceeds from the ABL Facility. As of April 29, 2017 , $289.0 million of the Company's $421.4 million of cash and equivalents was held by foreign affiliates. The Company is not dependent on dividends from its foreign affiliates to fund its U.S. operations or pay dividends to A&F's stockholders. Unremitted earnings from foreign affiliates generally would become subject to U.S. income tax if remitted as dividends or lent to A&F or a U.S. affiliate. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company uses, in the ordinary course of business, stand-by letters of credit under the existing ABL Facility. The Company had $1.8 million in stand-by letters of credit outstanding as of April 29, 2017 . The Company has no other off-balance sheet arrangements. 22 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The Company's contractual obligations consist primarily of operating leases, purchase orders for merchandise inventory, unrecognized tax benefits, certain retirement obligations, lease deposits and other agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding and that require minimum quantities to be purchased. These contractual obligations impact the Company's short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. During the thirteen weeks ended April 29, 2017 , there were no material changes in the contractual obligations as of January 28, 2017 , with the exception of those obligations which occurred in the normal course of business (primarily changes in the Company's merchandise inventory-related purchases and lease obligations, which fluctuate throughout the year as a result of the seasonal nature of the Company's operations). RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1, " BASIS OF PRESENTATION--Recent Accounting Pronouncements " of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in "ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS," of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2, " SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in "ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2016 . We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS", of our Annual Report on Form10-K for Fiscal 2016 . There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of Fiscal 2016 . 23 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or made by the Company, its management or spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, including the disclosures under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2016 , and the disclosures under the heading "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" in Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for Fiscal 2017 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or otherwise made by management: changes in global economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, as well as other changes in consumer discretionary spending habits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity; our inability to anticipate customer demand and changing fashion trends and to manage our inventory commensurately could adversely impact our sales levels and profitability; our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours; direct-to-consumer sales channels are a significant component of our growth strategy, and the failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our results of operations; our ability to conduct business in international markets may be adversely affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks; our inability to successfully implement our strategic plans could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability; our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber-attacks, credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and reputation loss; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; changes in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor, transportation and trade relations could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs; we depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture and delivery of all our merchandise, and a disruption of the manufacture or delivery of our merchandise could result in lost sales and could increase our costs; our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls or area attractions that our stores are located in or around; we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business; our reliance on DCs makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our supply chain; our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets; fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; extreme weather conditions and the seasonal nature of our business may cause net sales to fluctuate and negatively impact our results of operations; our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results; the impact of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; our Asset-Based Revolving Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement include restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business; and, compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. This list of important factors is not exclusive. 24 Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS (Thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Thousands, except par value amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 ABERCROMBIE& FITCH CO. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION Nature of Business Abercrombie& Fitch Co. ("A&F"), through its subsidiaries (collectively, A&F and its subsidiaries are referred to as "Abercrombie & Fitch" or the "Company"), is a specialty retailer of branded apparel and accessories. The Company operates through store and direct-to-consumer operations, as well as through various wholesale, franchise and licensing arrangements. The Company has operations in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Principles of Consolidation The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include historical financial statements of, and transactions applicable to, the Company and reflect its assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows. The Company has interests in a United Arab Emirates business venture and in a Kuwait business venture with Majid al Futtaim Fashion L.L.C. ("MAF"), each of which meets the definition of a variable interest entity ("VIE"). The Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of these VIEs; therefore, the Company has consolidated the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of these VIEs. Fiscal Year The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. All references herein to "Fiscal 2017 " and "Fiscal 2016 " represent the fifty-three week fiscal year ending on February 3, 2018 and the fifty-two week fiscal year ended on January 28, 2017 , respectively. Interim Financial Statements The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of July 29, 2017 , and for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended July 29, 2017 and July 30, 2016 , are unaudited and are presented pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Accordingly, these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto contained in A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2016 filed with the SEC on March27, 2017 . The January 28, 2017 consolidated balance sheet data, included herein, were derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). In the opinion of management, the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments (which are of a normal recurring nature) necessary to state fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for Fiscal 2017 . 6 Recent Accounting Pronouncements The following table provides a brief description of recent accounting pronouncements that could affect the Company's financial statements: * Early adoption is permitted. 7 2. NET LOSS PER SHARE Net loss per basic and diluted share is computed based on the weighted-average number of outstanding shares of common stock. The following table presents weighted-average shares outstanding and anti-dilutive shares: (1) Reflects the total number of shares related to outstanding share-based compensation awards that have been excluded from the computation of net loss per diluted share because the impact would have been anti-dilutive. 3. FAIR VALUE Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The inputs used to measure fair value are prioritized based on a three-level hierarchy. The three levels of inputs to measure fair value are as follows: Level 1-inputs are unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities that are available in active markets that the Company can access at the measurement date. Level 2-inputs are other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are observable for assets or liabilities, directly or indirectly. Level 3-inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable. The lowest level of significant input determines the placement of the entire fair value measurement in the hierarchy. The three levels of the hierarchy and the distribution within these levels of the Company's assets and liabilities, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, were as follows: 8 The Level 2 assets and liabilities consist of trust-owned life insurance policies and derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency exchange forward contracts. The fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts is determined by using quoted market prices of the same or similar instruments, adjusted for counterparty risk. Fair value of borrowings: The Company's borrowings under the Company's credit facilities are carried at historical cost in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. For disclosure purposes, the Company estimated the fair value of borrowings outstanding based on market rates for similar types of debt, which are considered to be Level 2 inputs. The carrying amount and fair value of the Company's borrowings under the term loan facility were as follows: No borrowings were outstanding under the Company's senior secured revolving credit facility as of July 29, 2017 or January 28, 2017 . 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET Property and equipment, net consisted of: Long-lived assets, primarily comprised of leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the long-lived assets might not be recoverable. These include, but are not limited to, material declines in operational performance, a history of losses, an expectation of future losses, adverse market conditions and store closure or relocation decisions. On at least a quarterly basis, the Company reviews for indicators of impairment at the individual store level, the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Stores that display an indicator of impairment are subjected to an impairment assessment. The Company's impairment assessment requires management to make assumptions and judgments related, but not limited, to management's expectations for future operations and projected cash flows. The key assumptions used in the Company's undiscounted future cash flow models include sales, gross profit and, to a lesser extent, operating expenses. An impairment loss would be recognized when these undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset group. In the circumstance of impairment, the loss would be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset group over its fair value. The key assumptions used in estimating the fair value of impaired assets may include projected cash flows and discount rate. The Company incurred store asset impairment charges of $6.1 million and $6.9 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 , respectively, and $6.4 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 , as it was determined that the carrying value of certain assets was not expected to be recovered and exceeded fair value. The Company had $37.8 million and $35.6 million of construction project assets in property and equipment, net at July 29, 2017 and January 28, 2017 , respectively, related to the construction of buildings in certain lease arrangements where the Company is deemed to be the owner of the construction project. 9 5. INCOME TAXES The Company's quarterly tax provision and the estimate of the annual effective tax rate are subject to significant variation due to several factors. These include variability in the pre-tax jurisdictional mix of earnings, changes in how the Company does business including entering into new businesses or geographies, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized and the impact of discrete items. The impact of these items on the effective tax rate will be greater at lower levels of pre-tax income (loss). In Fiscal 2017, the Company adopted ASU 2016-09, "Compensation-Stock Compensation," which resulted in discrete non-cash income tax charges recognized in income tax benefit on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss of $0.7 million and $9.9 million for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended July 29, 2017 , respectively. Refer to Note 1, " " for further discussion regarding the adoption of this standard. 6. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION The Company recognized share-based compensation expense of $5.5 million and $10.4 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 , respectively, and $4.4 million and $11.0 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 , respectively. The tax benefit associated with share-based compensation expense was $2.1 million and $4.0 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 , respectively, and $1.7 million and $4.1 million for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 , respectively. Stock Options The following table summarizes stock option activity for the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 : Stock Appreciation Rights The following table summarizes stock appreciation rights activity for the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 : As of July 29, 2017 , there was $1.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to stock appreciation rights. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 9 months . The grant date fair value of stock appreciation rights that vested during the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 and July 30, 2016 was $2.2 million and $4.0 million , respectively. 10 Restricted Stock Units The following table summarizes activity for restricted stock units for the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 : (1) This includes 724,440 unvested restricted stock units as of July 29, 2017 that are subject to the requirement that the Company must achieve at least $1.00 of GAAP net income attributable to A&F for the fiscal year in order to vest. Fair value of both service-based and performance-based restricted stock units is calculated using the market price of the underlying common stock on the date of grant reduced for anticipated dividend payments on unvested shares. In determining fair value, the Company does not take into account performance-based vesting requirements. Performance-based vesting requirements are taken into account in determining the number of awards expected to vest. For market-based restricted stock units, fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation with the number of shares that ultimately vest dependent on the Company's total stockholder return measured against the total stockholder return of a select group of peer companies over a three-year period. For an award with performance-based or market-based vesting requirements, the number of shares that ultimately vest can vary from 0% to 200% of target depending on the level of achievement of performance criteria. Unvested shares related to restricted stock units with performance-based vesting conditions are reflected at 100% of their target vesting amount in the table above. Service-based restricted stock units are expensed on a straight-line basis over the total requisite service period, net of forfeitures. Performance-based restricted stock units subject to graded vesting are expensed on an accelerated attribution basis, net of forfeitures. Market-based restricted stock units without graded vesting features are expensed on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, net of forfeitures. As of July 29, 2017 , there was $29.6 million , $4.2 million and $4.5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 16 months , 17 months and 14 months for service-based, performance-based and market-based restricted stock units, respectively. The tax benefit associated with restricted stock vesting during thethirteenand twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 was $0.5 million and $2.5 million , respectively. The tax benefit associated with restricted stock vesting during thethirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 was $1.5 million and $6.4 million , respectively. Additional information pertaining to restricted stock units for the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 and July 30, 2016 follows: 11 The weighted-average assumptions used for market-based restricted stock units in the Monte Carlo simulation during the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 and July 30, 2016 were as follows: 7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The Company is exposed to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates and uses derivative instruments, primarily forward contracts, to manage the financial impacts of these exposures. The Company does not use forward contracts to engage in currency speculation and does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company uses derivative instruments, primarily foreign currency exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge the foreign currency exposure associated with forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales to foreign subsidiaries and the related settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany receivables. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will either increase or decrease the Company's intercompany equivalent cash flows and affect the Company's U.S. Dollar earnings. Gains or losses on the foreign currency exchange forward contracts that are used to hedge these exposures are expected to partially offset this variability. Foreign currency exchange forward contracts represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed upon settlement date. These foreign currency exchange forward contracts typically have a maximum term of twelve months . The sale of the inventory to the Company's customers will result in the reclassification of related derivative gains and losses that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("AOCL"). Substantially all of the unrealized gains or losses related to designated cash flow hedges as of July29, 2017 will be recognized in cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, over the next twelve months . The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities at their gross fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. However, the Company's derivative contracts allow net settlements under certain conditions. As of July 29, 2017 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge either a portion, or all, of forecasted foreign-currency-denominated intercompany inventory sales, the resulting settlement of the foreign-currency-denominated intercompany accounts receivable, or both: (1) Amounts reported are the U.S. Dollar notional amounts outstanding as of July29, 2017 . The Company also uses foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities. Examples of monetary assets/liabilities include cash balances, receivables and payables. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates result in transaction gains/(losses) being recorded in earnings, as U.S. GAAP requires that monetary assets/liabilities be remeasured at the spot exchange rate at quarter-end or upon settlement. The Company has chosen not to apply hedge accounting to these instruments because there are no differences in the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instruments and the hedged items. 12 As of July29, 2017 , the Company had outstanding the following foreign currency exchange forward contracts that were entered into to hedge foreign-currency-denominated net monetary assets/liabilities: (1) Amounts reported are the U.S. Dollar notional amounts outstanding as of July29, 2017 . The location and amounts of derivative fair values on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of July29, 2017 and January28, 2017 were as follows: Refer to Note 3, " , " for further discussion of the determination of the fair value of derivative instruments. 13 The location and amounts of derivative gains and losses for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July29, 2017 and July30, 2016 on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss were as follows: (1) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in spot rates. (2) The amount represents the reclassification from AOCL into earnings when the hedged item affects earnings, which is when merchandise is sold to the Company's customers. (3) The amount represents the change in fair value of derivative contracts due to changes in the difference between the spot price and forward price that is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and, therefore, recognized in earnings. 14 8. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July29, 2017 was as follows: (1) Amount represents losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. The activity in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 was as follows: (2) Amount represents gains (losses) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 15 9. SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has two operating segments: Hollister; and Abercrombie, which includes the Company's Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. These operating segments have similar economic characteristics, classes of consumers, products, and production and distribution methods, and have been aggregated into one reportable segment. The following table provides the Company's net sales by operating segment for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July29, 2017 and July30, 2016 . The following table provides the Company's net sales by geographic area for the thirteen and twenty-six weeks ended July29, 2017 and July30, 2016 . 10. CONTINGENCIES The Company is a defendant in lawsuits and other adversary proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Legal costs incurred in connection with the resolution of claims and lawsuits are generally expensed as incurred, and the Company establishes reserves for the outcome of litigation where losses are deemed probable and reasonably estimable. The Company's assessment of the current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of additional facts. Actual liabilities may exceed the amounts reserved, and there can be no assurance that final resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There are certain claims and legal proceedings pending against the Company for which accruals have not been established. Additionally, for the quarter endedJuly 30, 2016, the Company recognized a $12.3 million gain in other operating income, net in connection with a settlement of certain economic loss claims associated with the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. 16 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW BUSINESS SUMMARY The Company is a specialty retailer who primarily sells its products through store and direct-to-consumer operations, as well as through various wholesale, franchise and licensing arrangements. The Company offers a broad array of apparel products, including knit tops, woven shirts, graphic t-shirts, fleece, sweaters, jeans, woven pants, shorts, outerwear, dresses, intimates and swimwear; and personal care products and accessories for men, women and kids under the Hollister, Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. The Company has operations in North America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January31. Fiscal years are designated in the consolidated financial statements and notes by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. All references herein to "Fiscal 2017 " represent the fifty-three week fiscal year that will end on February 3, 2018 , and to "Fiscal 2016 " represent the fifty-two week fiscal year that ended January 28, 2017 . Due to the seasonal nature of the retail apparel industry, the results of operations for any current period are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full fiscal year. The seasonality of the Company's operations may also lead to significant fluctuations in certain asset and liability accounts. SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The table below summarizes the Company's results of operations and reconciles GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP financial measures for the thirteen and twenty-six week periods ended July 29, 2017 and July 30, 2016 . Additional discussion about why the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors is provided below under "NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES." (2) Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For inclusion in this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Excludes revenue other than store and online sales. As of July29, 2017 , the Company had $421.9 million in cash and equivalents, and $268.3 million in gross borrowings outstanding under its term loan facility. Net cash used for operating activities was $48.9 million for the twenty-six weeks ended July29, 2017 . The Company also used cash of $61.8 million for capital expenditures and $27.2 million to pay dividends during the twenty-six weeks ended July29, 2017 . 17 CURRENT TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Our results for the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 reflect clear progress across all brands, with the continued execution of our strategic plan. We delivered our third consecutive quarter of sequential comparable sales improvement, resulting in overall net sales down less than 1% compared to last year. Capitalizing on the momentum it has been building, Hollister delivered a 5% increase in comparable sales. Hollister continues to leverage high levels of customer engagement to drive growth across all touchpoints and demonstrates how the customer responds when product, voice and experience are aligned. Abercrombie showed continued improvement and is on track as we continue to apply learnings from Hollister. Our focus remains on staying close to our customers and investing in our ability to meet their needs whenever, wherever and however they choose to engage with our brands. While we anticipate the environment to remain challenging and promotional through the balance of the fiscal year, we expect to see benefits from the continued improvement in product assortment, our strategic investments in marketing and omnichannel, and our ongoing efforts to optimize productivity across all channels. We are confident we are on the right path to deliver enhanced performance and long-term shareholder value. For Fiscal 2017, we expect: Comparable sales to be approximately flat, and flat to up slightly in the second half of the year. Foreign currency to be a slight benefit to sales and operating income. A gross profit rate down compared to last year's rate of 61.0%, and approximately flat in the second half of the year. Operating expense to be down at least 3% compared to last year's adjusted non-GAAP operating expense of $2.025 billion. A weighted-average diluted share count of approximately 69 million shares, excluding the effect of potential share buybacks. For the second half of the year, we expect the effective tax rate to be in the mid 30s. On a full year basis, we now expect the effective tax rate to reflect a core tax rate in the mid 30s, which remains highly sensitive at lower levels of pre-tax earnings. Additionally, we expect discrete non-cash income tax charges for the full year of approximately $11 million primarily related to a change in share-based compensation accounting standards, of which approximately $10 million has been recognized to date. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $100 million for the full year. We plan to open seven full-price stores in Fiscal 2017, including six in the U.S. and one in international markets. We also plan to open two new outlet stores. In addition, we anticipate closing approximately 60 stores in the U.S. during the fiscal year through natural lease expirations. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes discussion of certain financial measures under " " on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. The Company believes that each of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this "ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" are useful to investors as they provide a measure of the Company's operating performance excluding the effect of certain items which the Company believes do not reflect its future operating outlook, and therefore supplements investors' understanding of comparability across periods. Management used these non-GAAP financial measures during the periods presented to assess the Company's performance and to develop expectations for future operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures should be used supplemental to, not as an alternative to, the Company's GAAP financial results, and may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For the purpose of this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Excludes revenue other than store and online sales. In addition, the following financial measures are disclosed on a GAAP basis and, as applicable, on a non-GAAP basis excluding items relating to asset impairment and claims settlement benefits: other operating income, net; operating loss; income tax benefit; effective tax rate; net loss attributable to A&F; and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F. Certain of these GAAP and non-GAAP measures are also expressed as a percentage of net sales. The income tax effect of non-GAAP items is calculated as the 18 difference in income tax benefit with and without the non-GAAP adjustments to income before income taxes based upon the tax laws and statutory income tax rates of the applicable tax jurisdictions. STORE ACTIVITY Store count and gross square footage by brand for the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 and July 30, 2016 , respectively, were as follows: (1) Excludes five international franchise stores as of July 29, 2017 , three international franchise stores as of January 28, 2017 and two international franchise stores as of July 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016. (2) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. Excludes three international franchise stores as of July 29, 2017 and one international franchise store as of January 28, 2017 , July 30, 2016 and January 30, 2016. 19 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS THIRTEEN AND TWENTY-SIX WEEKS ENDED JULY 29, 2017 VERSUS JULY 30, 2016 Net Sales (1) Changes in comparable sales are calculated on a constant currency basis by converting prior year store and online sales at current year exchange rates. For inclusion in this calculation, a store must have been open as the same brand at least one year and its square footage must not have been expanded or reduced by more than 20% within the past year. Excludes revenue other than store and online sales. (2) Includes Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie kids brands. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , net sales decreased slightly compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily attributable to a 1% decrease in comparable sales, with a 5% increase in comparable sales in Hollister offset by a 7% decrease in comparable sales in Abercrombie. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , net sales decreased 2% compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , primarily attributable to a 2% decrease in comparable sales, with a 4% increase in comparable sales in Hollister offset by a 8% decrease in comparable sales in Abercrombie. 20 Cost of Sales, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 180 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to lower average unit retail, in an environment that remained highly promotional, which includes the adverse effects from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of approximately 20 basis points. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 180 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to lower average unit retail, in an environment that remained highly promotional, which includes the adverse effects from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of approximately 30 basis points, partially offset by lower average unit cost. Stores and Distribution Expense For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 150 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to expense reduction efforts, partially offset by higher direct-to-consumer expense. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , stores and distribution expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 60 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to expense reduction efforts, partially offset by higher direct-to-consumer expense and the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , shipping and handling costs incurred to physically move product to the customer, associated with direct-to-consumer operations, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare product for shipment, were $31.5 million as compared to $27.4 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , shipping and handling costs were $61.2 million as compared to $50.2 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , handling costs incurred to physically move product to stores, including costs incurred to store, move and prepare product for shipment, were $9.0 million as compared to $10.3 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , handling costs were $17.1 million as compared to $20.7 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . Shipping and handling costs are included in stores and distribution expense on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss. 21 Marketing, General and Administrative Expense For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 30 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to expense reduction efforts, partially offset by higher marketing expenses. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , marketing, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 20 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to expense reduction efforts, partially offset by higher marketing expenses and the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales. Asset Impairment For the second quarter and the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017, the Company incurred store asset impairment charges of $6.1 million and $6.9 million , respectively, as compared to $6.4 million for the second quarter and the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016, as it was determined that the carrying value of certain assets was not expected to be recovered and exceeded fair value. Other Operating Income, Net (1) Includes benefits related to a settlement of certain economic loss claims associated with the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , other operating income, net was $2.8 million as compared to $13.1 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 . Excluding $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits last year, second quarter of Fiscal 2017 adjusted non-GAAP other operating income, net as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 30 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily due to foreign currency related gains. For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , other operating income, net was $4.5 million as compared to $16.0 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . Excluding $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits last year, year-to-date Fiscal 2017 adjusted non-GAAP other operating income, net as a percentage of net sales was approximately flat as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . 22 Operating Loss (1) Includes benefits related to a settlement of certain economic loss claims associated with the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , operating loss as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 130 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , primarily driven by a reduction in the gross profit rate, the net year-over-year impact of certain items presented above and higher marketing and direct-to-consumer expenses, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. Excluding certain items presented above, second quarter Fiscal 2017 adjusted non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of net sales decreased by approximately 20 basis points as compared to the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , operating loss as a percent of net sales increased by approximately 180 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , primarily driven by a reduction in the gross profit rate, the net year-over-year impact of certain items presented above, higher marketing and direct-to-consumer expenses and the deleveraging effect from negative comparable sales, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. Excluding certain items presented above, year-to-date Fiscal 2017 adjusted non-GAAP operating loss as a percentage of net sales increased by approximately 100 basis points as compared to the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . Interest Expense, Net For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , interest expense, net was $4.1 million as compared to $4.7 million for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 , which primarily consists of interest expense on borrowings outstanding under the Company's term loan facility, partially offset by realized gains from the trust-owned life insurance policies held in the irrevocable rabbi trust (the "Rabbi Trust"). For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , interest expense, net was $8.2 million as compared to $9.2 million for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 , which primarily consists of interest expense on borrowings outstanding under the Company's term loan facility, partially offset by realized gains from the trust-owned life insurance policies held in the Rabbi Trust. 23 Income Tax Benefit (1) Refer to " Operating Loss " for details of excluded items. The Company computed the tax effect of excluded items as the difference between the effective tax rate calculated with and without the non-GAAP adjustments on loss before taxes and provision for income taxes. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , the effective tax rate, which is sensitive at lower levels of pre-tax earnings, was 42.0% as compared to 22.6% for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 . The change in the effective tax rate included the impact from updates during the second quarter to the estimated annual effective tax rate, primarily driven by changes in level and mix of consolidated pre-tax income amongst operating jurisdictions, as well as a release of a valuation allowance in the prior year. Excluding certain items presented above in the table under " Operating Loss ," the second quarter Fiscal 2017 adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate was 47.0% as compared to 26.8% for the second quarter Fiscal 2016 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , the effective tax rate was 23.8% as compared to 32.4% for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . The change in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by discrete non-cash income tax charges of $9.9 million related to the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, as well as changes in the level and mix of consolidated pre-tax earnings between operating and valuation allowance jurisdictions. Excluding certain items presented above in the table under " Operating Loss ," the year-to-date Fiscal 2017 adjusted non-GAAP effective tax rate was 23.6% as compared to 32.8% for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . Net Loss and Net Loss per Share Attributable to A&F For the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 , net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $15.5 million and $0.23 , respectively, as compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $13.1 million and $0.19 , respectively, for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 . Excluding certain items presented above under " Operating Loss " and " Income Tax Benefit , " second quarter Fiscal 2017 adjusted non-GAAP net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $11.0 million and $0.16 , respectively, as compared to $16.8 million and $0.25 for the second quarter of Fiscal 2016 . For the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2017 , net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $77.2 million and $1.13 , respectively, as compared to net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F of $52.7 million and $0.78 , respectively, for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . Excluding certain items presented above under " Operating Loss " and " Income Tax Benefit , " year-to-date Fiscal 2017 adjusted non-GAAP net loss and net loss per diluted share attributable to A&F were $72.7 million and $1.06 , respectively, as compared to $56.4 million and $0.83 for the year-to-date period of Fiscal 2016 . 24 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES HISTORICAL SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Seasonality of Cash Flows The Company's business has two principal selling seasons: the Spring season which includes the first and second fiscal quarters ("Spring") and the Fall season which includes the third and fourth fiscal quarters ("Fall"). As is typical in the apparel industry, the Company experiences its greatest sales activity during the Fall season due to Back-to-School and Holiday sales periods. The Company relies on excess operating cash flows, which are largely generated in the Fall season, to fund operations throughout the year and to reinvest in the business to support future growth. The Company also has a revolving credit facility available as a source of additional funding. Asset-Based Revolving Credit Facility The Company has a senior secured revolving credit facility with availability of up to $400 million (the "ABL Facility"), subject to a borrowing base. The ABL Facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The ABL Facility will mature on August 7, 2019. No borrowings were outstanding under the ABL Facility as of July 29, 2017 . At the Company's option, borrowings under the ABL Facility will bear interest, at either (a) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a margin of 1.25% to 1.75% per annum, or (b) an alternate base rate plus a margin of 0.25% to 0.75% per annum based on average historical excess availability during the preceding quarter. The Company is also required to pay a fee of 0.25% per annum on undrawn commitments under the ABL Facility. Customary agency fees and letter of credit fees are also payable pursuant to the ABL Facility. As of July 29, 2017 , the borrowing base on the ABL Facility was $327.9 million . As of August31, 2017 , the Company had not drawn on the ABL Facility, but had approximately $1.9 million in outstanding stand-by letters of credit under the ABL Facility. Term Loan Facility The Company is also party to a term loan agreement, which provides for a term loan facility of $300 million (the "Term Loan Facility" and, together with the ABL Facility, the "2014 Credit Facilities"). The Term Loan Facility was issued at a $3 million or 1.0% discount. In addition, the Company recorded deferred financing fees associated with the issuance of the 2014 Credit Facilities of $5.8 million in aggregate, of which $3.2 million was paid to lenders. The Company is amortizing the debt discount and deferred financing fees over the respective contractual terms of the 2014 Credit Facilities. The Company's Term Loan debt is presented in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, net of the unamortized discount and fees. Net borrowings as of July 29, 2017 were as follows: The Term Loan Facility will mature on August 7, 2021 and amortizes at a rate equal to 0.25%of the original principal amount per quarter, beginning with the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2014. The Term Loan Facility is subject to (a) an annual mandatory prepayment in an amount equal to 0% to 50% of the Company's excess cash flows in the preceding fiscal year, depending on the Company's leverage ratio and (b) certain other mandatory prepayments upon receipt by the Company of proceeds of certain debt issuances, asset sales and casualty events, subject to certain exceptions specified therein, including reinvestment rights, less any voluntary payments made. The Company made a repayment of $25 million in January 2017, in prepayment of its scheduled Fiscal 2017 through Fiscal 2021 amortization and a portion of the amount of principal due at maturity. 25 At the Company's option, borrowings under the Term Loan Facility will bear interest at either (a) an adjusted LIBOR rate no lower than 1.00% plus a margin of 3.75% per annum or (b) an alternate base rate plus a margin of 2.75% per annum. Customary agency fees are also payable pursuant to the Term Loan Facility. The interest rate on borrowings under the Term Loan Facility was 4.98% as of July 29, 2017 . Operating Activities Net cash used for operating activities was $48.9 million for the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 compared to $57.2 million for the twenty-six weeks ended July 30, 2016 . The year-over-year change in cash flow associated with operating activities was primarily due to timing of rent payments and a decrease in income tax and incentive compensation payments. These year-over-year changes were partially offset by lower cash receipts on lower net sales, $12.3 million of claims settlement benefits in Fiscal 2016, greater inventory purchases in the second quarter of Fiscal 2017 and lease deposits returned in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. Investing Activities Cash outflows for investing activities for the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 and July 30, 2016 included capital expenditures of $61.8 million and $58.0 million , respectively, primarily for store updates and new stores, as well as direct-to-consumer and omnichannel and information technology investments. Financing Activities Cash outflows for the twenty-six weeks ended July 29, 2017 and July 30, 2016 consisted primarily of dividend payments of $27.2 million and $27.0 million , respectively. As of July 29, 2017 , A&F had the ability to repurchase up to 6.5 million shares as part of the A&F Board of Directors' previously approved authorization. FUTURE CASH REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF CASH Over the next twelve months, the Company's primary cash requirements will be to fund operating activities, including the acquisition of inventory, and obligations related to compensation, leases, taxes and other operating activities, as well as to fund capital expenditures, marketing initiatives, quarterly dividends to stockholders subject to approval by A&F's Board of Directors and debt service requirements, including required repayments, if any, based on annual excess cash flows, as defined in the term loan agreement. The Company has availability under the ABL Facility as a source of additional funding. The Company expects total capital expenditures to be approximately $100 million for Fiscal 2017 , primarily for store updates, new stores, as well as direct-to-consumer and omnichannel and information technology investments. The Company may repurchase shares of its Common Stock and, if it were to do so, would anticipate funding such repurchases by utilizing free cash flow generated from operations or proceeds from the ABL Facility. As of July 29, 2017 , $289.3 million of the Company's $421.9 million of cash and equivalents was held by foreign affiliates. The Company is not dependent on dividends from its foreign affiliates to fund its U.S. operations or pay dividends to A&F's stockholders. Unremitted earnings from foreign affiliates generally would become subject to U.S. income tax if remitted as dividends or lent to A&F or a U.S. affiliate. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company uses, in the ordinary course of business, stand-by letters of credit under the existing ABL Facility. The Company had $1.8 million in stand-by letters of credit outstanding as of July 29, 2017 . The Company has no other off-balance sheet arrangements. 26 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The Company's contractual obligations consist primarily of operating leases, purchase orders for merchandise inventory, unrecognized tax benefits, certain retirement obligations, lease deposits and other agreements to purchase goods and services that are legally binding and that require minimum quantities to be purchased. These contractual obligations impact the Company's short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. During the thirteen weeks ended July 29, 2017 , there were no material changes in the contractual obligations as of January 28, 2017 , with the exception of those obligations which occurred in the normal course of business (primarily changes in the Company's merchandise inventory-related purchases and lease obligations, which fluctuate throughout the year as a result of the seasonal nature of the Company's operations). RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1, " " of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in "ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS," of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recent accounting pronouncements, including the dates of adoption or expected dates of adoption, as applicable, and estimated effects on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2, " SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, " of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in "ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2016 . We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS", of our Annual Report on Form10-K for Fiscal 2016 . There have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of Fiscal 2016 . 27 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Company cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or made by the Company, its management or spokespeople involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, including the disclosures under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2016 , in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for Fiscal 2017 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or otherwise made by management: changes in global economic and financial conditions, and the resulting impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, as well as other changes in consumer discretionary spending habits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity; our inability to anticipate customer demand and changing fashion trends and to manage our inventory commensurately could adversely impact our sales levels and profitability; our market share may be negatively impacted by increasing competition and pricing pressures from companies with brands or merchandise competitive with ours; direct-to-consumer sales channels are a significant component of our growth strategy, and the failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our results of operations; our ability to conduct business in international markets may be adversely affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks; our inability to successfully implement our strategic plans could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability; our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brands; our business could suffer if our information technology systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber-attacks, credit card fraud and identity theft that would cause us to incur unexpected expenses and reputation loss; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations; changes in the cost, availability and quality of raw materials, labor, transportation and trade relations could cause manufacturing delays and increase our costs; we depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture and delivery of all our merchandise, and a disruption of the manufacture or delivery of our merchandise could result in lost sales and could increase our costs; our ability to attract customers to our stores depends, in part, on the success of the shopping malls or area attractions that our stores are located in or around; we rely on the experience and skills of our senior executive officers, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business; our reliance on DCs makes us susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting our supply chain; our litigation exposure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations; our inability or failure to adequately protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets; fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results; extreme weather conditions and the seasonal nature of our business may cause net sales to fluctuate and negatively impact our results of operations; our facilities, systems and stores, as well as the facilities and systems of our vendors and manufacturers, are vulnerable to natural disasters, pandemic disease and other unexpected events, any of which could result in an interruption to our business and adversely affect our operating results; the impact of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition; changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect our business and results of operations; our Asset-Based Revolving Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement include restrictive covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business; and, compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reported financial results. This list of important factors is not inclusive. 28 Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.