Item 1. Financial Statements AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 3 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (in thousands) __________________________ (1) Amounts presented net of tax of $(30) and $5 for the quarters ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. (2) Amounts presented net of tax of $(2,392) and $271 for the quarters ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 4 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 5 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (Unaudited) (in thousands, except number of shares) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 6 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 7 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1.GENERAL The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Aegion Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Aegion" or the "Company") reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the dates and periods presented. Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected during the remainder of the current year or for any future period. All significant intercompany related accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015, which is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, and the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the requirements of Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X and, consequently, do not include all information or footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements or all the disclosures normally made in an Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, the unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes included in the Company's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29, 2016. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce the Company's exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated costs. As part of management's ongoing assessment of its energy-related businesses, the Company determined that the persistent low price of oil is expected to create market challenges for the foreseeable future, including reduced customer spending in 2016. The Company made significant progress in executing its 2016 Restructuring objectives in the first quarter of 2016, and the Company expects to substantially complete by the end of the second quarter of 2016 all of the objectives set forth in the 2016 Restructuring, including repositioning Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reducing Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sizing Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reducing corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual costs between $15.0 million to $16.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. See Note 3. Infrastructure Solutions Segment ("Infrastructure Solutions") On February 18, 2016, the Company acquired Underground Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiary, Underground Solutions Technologies Group, Inc. (collectively, "Underground Solutions"), for a purchase price of $85.0 million plus an additional $5.3 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards. The purchase price is subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and post-closing adjustments to the value of the net operating loss tax asset. The purchase price included $6.3 million held in escrow as security for the post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of Underground Solutions' previous owners. The transaction was funded partially from the Company's cash balances and partially from borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility. To supplement the domestic cash balances, the Company repatriated approximately $30.4 million from foreign subsidiaries to assist in funding the transaction, incurring approximately $3.5 million in additional taxes, a reserve for which was included in the Company's tax provision amounts for 2015. Underground Solutions provides infrastructure technologies for water, sewer and conduit applications. In February 2015, the Company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary, Video Injection - Insituform SAS ("VII"), the Company's French cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP") contracting operation, to certain employees of VII. In connection with the sale, the Company entered into a five -year exclusive tube supply agreement whereby VII will purchase liners from Insituform Linings Limited. VII will also be entitled to continue to use its trade name based on a trade mark license granted for the same five-year time period. The sale resulted in a loss of approximately $2.9 million that was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations during the first quarter of 2015. On October 6, 2014, the Company's board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2014 Restructuring") which included the decision to exit Insituform's contracting markets in France, Switzerland, Hong Kong, 8 Malaysia and Singapore. The Company has substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. See Note 3. Corrosion Protection Segment ("Corrosion Protection") On February 1, 2016, the Company sold its fifty-one percent ( 51% ) interest in its Canadian coating joint venture, Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), to its joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The sale price was US $9.6 million , which consisted of a US $7.6 million payment at closing and a US $2.0 million promissory note payable to Company on or before August 1, 2016. BPPC served as the Company's pipe coating and insulation operation in Canada. The sale of its interest in BPPC was part of a broader effort by the Company to reduce exposure in the North American upstream market in light of expectations for a prolonged low oil price environment. As a result of the sale, the Company recognized a pre-tax, non-cash charge of approximately $0.6 million at December 31, 2015 to reflect the expected loss on the sale of the business. This loss was derived primarily from the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments and was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Energy Services Segment ("Energy Services") On March 1, 2015, the Company acquired Schultz Mechanical Contractors, Inc. ("Schultz"), a California corporation, for a total purchase price of $7.7 million . Schultz primarily services customers in California and Arizona and is a provider of piping installations, concrete construction and excavation and trenching services to the downstream and upstream oil and gas markets. Schultz is part of the Company's Energy Services reportable segment. Purchase Price Accounting During the first quarter of 2016, the Company determined its preliminary accounting for Underground Solutions and finalized its accounting for Schultz. As the Company completes its final accounting for the Underground Solutions acquisition, future adjustments related to working capital, deferred income taxes and goodwill could occur. The goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Schultz acquisition are deductible for tax purposes; whereas, the goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Underground Solutions acquisition are not deductible for tax purposes. Underground Solutions and Schultz made the following contribution to the Company's revenues and profits (in thousands): _____________________ (1) The reported net loss for the period includes inventory step up expense of $1.2 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. The following unaudited pro forma summary presents combined information of the Company as if the Underground Solutions and Schultz acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year preceding their acquisition (in thousands): _____________________ (1) Includes pro-forma adjustments for depreciation and amortization associated with acquired tangible and intangible assets, as if those assets were recorded at the beginning of the year preceding the acquisition date. The transaction purchase price to acquire Underground Solutions was $88.8 million , which included: (i) a payment at closing of $85.0 million ; (ii) a payment of $5.3 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards; and (iii) a preliminary working capital adjustment of $1.5 million (payable to the Company). Total cash consideration recorded to acquire Schultz was $6.7 million , which was funded by the Company's cash reserves. The cash consideration included the purchase price paid at closing of $7.1 million less working capital adjustments of $0.4 million . The total purchase price was $7.7 million , which represented the cash consideration of $6.7 million plus $1.0 million 9 of deferred contingent consideration. During the first quarter of 2016, $0.5 million of the contingent consideration was paid to the previous owners. The following table summarizes the fair value of identified assets and liabilities of the Underground Solutions and Schultz acquisitions at their respective acquisition dates (in thousands): 2.ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenues Revenues include construction, engineering and installation revenues that are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting in the ratio of costs incurred to estimated final costs. Revenues from change orders, extra work and variations in the scope of work are recognized when it is probable that they will result in additional contract revenue and when the amount can be reliably estimated. Contract costs include all direct material and labor costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools and equipment costs. The Company expenses all pre-contract costs in the period these costs are incurred. Since the financial reporting of these contracts depends on estimates, which are assessed continually during the term of these contracts, recognized revenues and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. If material, the effects of any changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. When estimates indicate that a loss will be incurred on a contract, a provision for the expected loss is recorded in the period in which the loss becomes evident. Any revenue recognized is only to the extent costs have been recognized in the period. Additionally, the Company expenses all costs for unpriced change orders in the period in which they are incurred. Revenues from the Company's Energy Services segment are derived mainly from multiple engineering and construction type contracts, as well as maintenance contracts, under multi-year long-term master service agreements and alliance contracts. Businesses within the Company's Energy Services segment enter into customer contracts that contain three principal types of pricing provisions: time and materials, cost plus fixed fee and fixed price. Although the terms of these contracts vary, most are made pursuant to cost reimbursable contracts on a time and materials basis under which revenues are recorded based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. These businesses also perform services on a cost plus fixed fee basis under which revenues are recorded based upon costs incurred at agreed upon rates and a proportionate amount of the fixed fee or percentage stipulated in the contract. 10 Foreign Currency Translation Net foreign exchange transaction losses of $1.1 million and $0.2 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, are included in other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the Company's international subsidiaries, the local currency is generally the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using rates in effect at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The cumulative translation adjustment resulting from changes in exchange rates are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in total stockholders' equity. The Company's accumulated other comprehensive income is comprised of three main components: (i) currency translation; (ii) derivatives; and (iii) gains and losses associated with the Company's defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom. As of March 31, 2016 and 2015 , the Company had accumulated comprehensive income (loss) of $(58.1) million and $(38.8) million , respectively, related to currency translation adjustments, $(6.2) million and $0.0 million , respectively, related to derivative transactions and $0.5 million and $(0.5) million , respectively, related to pension activity in accumulated other comprehensive income. Taxation The Company provides for estimated income taxes payable or refundable on current year income tax returns as well as the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards, based upon enacted tax laws and tax rates, and in accordance with FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes ("FASB ASC 740"). FASB ASC 740 also requires that a valuation allowance be recorded against any deferred tax assets that are not likely to be realized in the future. Refer to Note 9 for additional information regarding taxes on income. Purchase Price Accounting The Company accounts for its acquisitions in accordance with FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations . The base cash purchase price plus the estimated fair value of any non-cash or contingent consideration given for an acquired business is allocated to the assets acquired (including identified intangible assets) and liabilities assumed based on the estimated fair values of such assets and liabilities. The excess of the total consideration over the aggregate net fair values assigned is recorded as goodwill. Contingent consideration, if any, is recognized as a liability as of the acquisition date with subsequent adjustments recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Indirect and general expenses related to business combinations are expensed as incurred. The Company typically determines the fair value of tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination using independent valuations that rely on management's estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. Key assumptions include cash flow projections, growth rates, asset lives, and discount rates based on an analysis of weighted average cost of capital. Long-Lived Assets Property, plant and equipment and other identified intangibles (primarily customer relationships, patents and acquired technologies, trademarks, licenses and non-compete agreements) are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment, and, except for goodwill and certain trademarks, are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, changes to the Company's business model or changes in the Company's capital strategy can result in the actual useful lives differing from the Company's estimates. If the Company determines that the useful life of its property, plant and equipment or its identified intangible assets should be changed, the Company would depreciate or amortize the net book value in excess of the salvage value over its revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing or decreasing depreciation or amortization expense. Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment tests are based on a comparison of undiscounted cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. The estimate of cash flow is based upon, among other things, assumptions about expected future operating performance. The Company's estimates of undiscounted cash flow may differ from actual cash flow due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to its business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value, the Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. 11 Goodwill Under FASB ASC 350, the Company assesses recoverability of goodwill on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. An impairment charge will be recognized to the extent that the implied fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Factors that could potentially trigger an impairment review include (but are not limited to): significant underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected, historical or forecasted operating results; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant changes in the strategy for a segment including extended slowdowns in the reporting unit's market; a decrease in market capitalization below the Company's book value; and a significant change in regulations. Whether during the annual impairment assessment or during a trigger-based impairment review, the Company determines the fair value of its reporting units and compares such fair value to the carrying value of those reporting units to determine if there are any indications of goodwill impairment. Fair value of reporting units is determined using a combination of two valuation methods: a market approach and an income approach with each method given equal weight in determining the fair value assigned to each reporting unit. Absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transaction, the Company believes the use of these two methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit's fair value. Assumptions common to both methods are operating plans and economic outlooks, which are used to forecast future revenues, earnings and after-tax cash flows for each reporting unit. These assumptions are applied consistently for both methods. The market approach estimates fair value by first determining earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") multiples for comparable publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics of the reporting unit. The EBITDA multiples for comparable companies are based upon current enterprise value. The enterprise value is based upon current market capitalization and includes a control premium. The Company believes this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using multiples from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to its reporting units. The income approach is based on forecasted future (debt-free) cash flows that are discounted to present value using factors that consider timing and risk of future cash flows. The Company believes this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting unit's expected long-term operating cash flow performance. Discounted cash flow projections are based on financial forecasts developed from operating plans and economic outlooks, growth rates, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins, terminal value growth rates, future capital expenditures and changes in working capital requirements. Estimates of discounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes to business models, changes in the Company's weighted average cost of capital, or changes in operating performance. The discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows is one of the most significant assumptions utilized under the income approach. The Company determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital ("WACC") for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the pre-tax cost of debt and cost of equity (a major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on twenty year U.S. Treasury bonds). As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including market-based factors, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs are adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company-specific risks associated with each reporting unit. Investments in Affiliated Companies Investments in entities in which the Company does not have control or is not the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, and for which the Company has 20% to 50% ownership or has the ability to exert significant influence, have historically been accounted for by the equity method. At March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , the Company did not own any investments in affiliated companies. Investments in Variable Interest Entities The Company evaluates all transactions and relationships with variable interest entities ("VIE") to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entities in accordance with FASB ASC 810, Consolidation. 12 The Company's overall methodology for evaluating transactions and relationships under the VIE requirements includes the following two steps: determine whether the entity meets the criteria to qualify as a VIE; and determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. In performing the first step, the significant factors and judgments that the Company considers in making the determination as to whether an entity is a VIE include: the design of the entity, including the nature of its risks and the purpose for which the entity was created, to determine the variability that the entity was designed to create and distribute to its interest holders; the nature of the Company's involvement with the entity; whether control of the entity may be achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting equity; whether there is sufficient equity investment at risk to finance the activities of the entity; and whether parties other than the equity holders have the obligation to absorb expected losses or the right to receive residual returns. If the Company identifies a VIE based on the above considerations, it then performs the second step and evaluates whether it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE by considering the following significant factors and judgments: whether the entity has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance; and whether the entity has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. Based on its evaluation of the above factors and judgments, as of March 31, 2016 , the Company consolidated any VIEs in which it was the primary beneficiary. Financial data for consolidated variable interest entities are summarized in the following table (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Amounts exclude the assets and liabilities of BPPC, which was sold in February 2016. (2) Amounts include $21.1 million of current assets and $7.0 million of current liabilities classified as held for sale. See Note 5. __________________________ (1) Includes the results of BPPC through the date of its sale in February 2016. Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment awards to employees, including the accounting for income taxes, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations. In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires lessees to present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including 13 interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations. In November 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, to be presented as non-current within the Consolidated Balance Sheet. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, but early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its presentation of financial condition. In September 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires acquirers in a business combination to recognize measurement period adjustments in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This is a change from the previous requirement that the adjustments be recorded retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations. In August 2014, the FASB issued guidance that requires management to assess the Company's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related disclosures in certain circumstances. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's presentation of its consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance that supersedes revenue recognition requirements regarding contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or for the transfer of non-financial assets. Under the new guidance, entities are required to recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis to be performed on transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. This new guidance is effective retroactively in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations. 3.RESTRUCTURING 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Restructuring to reduce its exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated costs. The Company made significant progress in executing its 2016 Restructuring objectives in the first quarter of 2016, and the Company expects to substantially complete by the end of the second quarter of 2016 all of the objectives set forth in the 2016 Restructuring, including repositioning Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reducing Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sizing Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reducing corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual costs between $15.0 million to $16.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. The Company's initial savings estimate was approximately $15.0 million . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, the Company expects to reduce headcount by approximately 900 employees, or 14.5% of the Company's total workforce. Headcount reductions associated with the 2016 Restructuring totaled 705 as of March 31, 2016. In connection with the 2016 Restructuring, the Company expects to record estimated pre-tax charges, most of which are cash charges, between $11.0 million to $13.0 million , which is an increase from the original estimate of between $7.0 million to $9.0 million . The increased cost estimate is the result of longer wind-down efforts associated with downsizing our upstream operations in Energy Services and Corrosion Protection. These charges are expected to consist primarily of employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs, early lease termination and other restructuring costs. Total pre-tax restructuring charges during the first quarter of 2016 were $9.7 million ( $6.6 million after tax), all of which were cash charges. These charges included employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs associated with the restructuring efforts described above. 14 During the quarter ended March 31, 2016, the Company recorded pre-tax expense related to the 2016 Restructuring as follows (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Primarily includes charges related to the downsizing of the Company's upstream operations in California. (2) Includes $1.0 million of corporate-related restructuring charges that have been allocated to the reportable segments. 2016 Restructuring costs related to severance, other termination benefit costs and early lease termination costs for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 were $6.7 million and are reported, along with similar charges for the 2014 Restructuring, on a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . The following tables summarize all charges related to the 2016 Restructuring recognized in the quarter ended March 31, 2016 as presented in their affected line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): __________________________ (1) All charges incurred during the period will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. The following tables summarize the 2016 Restructuring activity during the first quarter of 2016 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges during the first quarter of 2016. 2014 Restructuring On October 6, 2014, the Company's board of directors approved the 2014 Restructuring to improve gross margins and profitability over the long term by exiting low-return businesses and reducing the size and cost of the Company's overhead structure. The 2014 Restructuring generated annual operating cost savings of approximately $10.8 million , which was in-line with the Company's initial estimate, and consisted of approximately $8.4 million and $2.4 million of recognized savings within Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection, respectively. The Company achieved these cost savings by (i) exiting certain unprofitable international locations for the Company's Insituform business and consolidating the Company's worldwide Fyfe 15 business with the Company's global Insituform business, all of which is in Infrastructure Solutions; and (ii) eliminating certain idle facilities in the Company's Bayou pipe coating operation in Louisiana, which is in Corrosion Protection. The Company has substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. Headcount reductions associated with the 2014 Restructuring totaled 86 as of March 31, 2016. Remaining headcount reductions and cash costs related to the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material. Total pre-tax 2014 Restructuring charges since inception were $60.3 million ( $44.8 million after tax) and consisted of non-cash charges totaling $48.3 million and cash charges totaling $12.0 million . The non-cash charges of $48.3 million included (i) $22.2 million related to the impairment of certain long-lived assets and definite-lived intangible assets for Bayou's pipe coating operation in Louisiana, which is reported in Corrosion Protection, and (ii) $26.1 million related to impairment of definite-lived intangible assets, allowances for accounts receivable, write-off of certain other current assets and long-lived assets, inventory obsolescence, as well as losses related to the sales of the Company's CIPP contracting operations in France and Switzerland, which are reported in Infrastructure Solutions. Cash charges totaling $12.0 million included employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other costs associated with the restructuring of Insituform's European and Asia-Pacific operations and Fyfe's worldwide business. While estimated remaining cash costs to be incurred in 2016 for the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material, the Company expects to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the disposal of certain entities as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. During the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company recorded pre-tax (income) expense related to the 2014 Restructuring as follows (in thousands): __________________________ (1) For the quarter ended March 31, 2015, includes charges related to the write-off of certain other assets, including the loss on the sale of the CIPP contracting operation in France in February 2015, including the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments, professional fees and certain other restructuring charges. (2) All charges for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 relate to Infrastructure Solutions. 2014 Restructuring costs related to severance, other termination benefit costs and early lease termination costs for the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were $0.1 million and $0.7 million , respectively, and are reported, along with similar charges for the 2016 Restructuring, on a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . 16 The following tables summarize all charges related to the 2014 Restructuring recognized in the quarters ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 as presented in their affected line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Cash charges consist of charges incurred during the period that will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. (2) Charges in the quarter ended March 31, 2015 primarily include the loss on sale of the CIPP contracting operation in France in February 2015, including the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments. (3) All charges relate to Infrastructure Solutions. The following tables summarize the 2014 Restructuring activity during the first quarters of 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges, either those reserved at December 31, 2015 or charged to income during the first quarter of 2016. __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges, either those reserved at December 31, 2014 or charged to income during the first quarter of 2015. 17 4.SHARE INFORMATION Earnings per share have been calculated using the following share information: The Company excluded 391,885 stock options and restricted and deferred stock units in the first quarter of 2016 from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the Company's common stock because of the reported net loss for the period. The Company excluded 164,014 and 270,061 stock options for the quarters ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, from the diluted earnings per share calculations for the Company's common stock because they were anti-dilutive as their exercise prices were greater than the average market price of common shares for each period. 5.ASSETS HELD FOR SALE On December 31, 2015, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its 51% interest in BPPC, a pipe coatings company in Western Canada, to its joint venture partner, MFRI, Inc. The transaction closed effective February 1, 2016. BPPC was classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2015. See Note 1 for further discussion of this sale. The following table provides the components of assets and liabilities held for sale (in thousands): 18 6.GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's goodwill at January 1, 2016 and March31, 2016 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first quarter of 2016, the Company recorded goodwill of $43.6 million related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions (see Note 1). Identified Intangible Assets Identified intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first quarter of 2016, the Company recorded trademarks, customer relationships and acquired technology of $20.2 million , $1.5 million and $12.8 million , respectively, related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions (see Note 1). Amortization expense was $3.7 million and $3.1 million for the quarters ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Estimated amortization expense by year is as follows (in thousands): 19 7.LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITY Financing Arrangements Long-term debt, term note and notes payable consisted of the following (in thousands): In October 2015, the Company entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of banks. Bank of America, N.A. served as the sole administrative agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association acted as co-syndication agents. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Securities LLC and U.S. Bank National Association acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers in the syndication of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility consists of a $300.0 million five -year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five -year term loan facility. The Company drew the entire term loan from the Credit Facility to (i) retire $344.7 million in indebtedness outstanding under the Company's prior credit facility; (ii) fund expenses associated with the Credit Facility; and (iii) for general corporate purposes. Generally, interest is charged on the principal amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus an applicable rate ranging from 1.25% to 2.25% depending on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The Company can also opt for an interest rate equal to a base rate (as defined in the credit documents) plus an applicable rate, which also is based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable LIBOR borrowing rate (LIBOR plus Company's applicable rate) as of March31, 2016 was approximately 2.48% . The Company's indebtedness at March31, 2016 consisted of $341.3 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the Credit Facility and $34.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. In February 2016, the Company borrowed $30.0 million on the line of credit to help fund the acquisition of Underground Solutions and in March 2016 borrowed $4.0 million for international working capital needs. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.2 million of third-party notes and bank debt at March31, 2016 . Beginning in the first quarter of 2016, FASB ASC 835-30, Interest Imputation of Interest ("FASB ASC 835-30") requires a change in the balance sheet presentation of debt issuance costs to be a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability instead of a deferred charge as previously reported. As such, the Company has presented unamortized loan costs of $4.1 million and $4.3 million at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, as a reduction to long-term debt on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. Comparable periods have been retrospectively adjusted in accordance with FASB ASC 835-30. As of March31, 2016 , the Company had $31.8 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the Credit Facility. Of such amount, $16.6 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $15.2 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. The Company's indebtedness at December31, 2015 consisted of $345.6 million outstanding from the term loan under the Credit Facility and zero on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint ventures (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.1 million of third-party notes and bank debt at December31, 2015 . Further, the Company had $1.9 million in debt listed as held for sale at December31, 2015 relating to the sale of BPPC (see Note 5). At March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt was approximately $388.7 million and $349.1 million , respectively. Fair value was estimated using market rates for debt of similar risk and maturity and a discounted cash flow model, which are based on Level 3 inputs as defined in Note 11. 20 In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrors the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount. The annualized borrowing rate of the swap at March31, 2016 was 3.46% . The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement, and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The Credit Facility is subject to certain financial covenants, including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. Subject to the specifically defined terms and methods of calculation as set forth in the Credit Facility's credit agreement, the financial covenant requirements, as of each quarterly reporting period end, are defined as follows: Consolidated financial leverage ratio compares consolidated funded indebtedness to Credit Facility defined income. The initial maximum amount was not to initially exceed 3.75 to 1.00. In connection with the acquisition of Underground Solutions, the Company executed a one-time election, in accordance with the Credit Agreement, to increase the consolidated financial leverage ratio to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of one year. After which, the ratio will decrease periodically at scheduled reporting periods to not more that 3.75 to 1.00 beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2017. At March31, 2016 , the Company's consolidated financial leverage ratio was 3.42 to 1.00 and, using the Credit Facility defined income, the Company had the capacity to borrow up to $65.9 million of additional debt. Consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio compares Credit Facility defined income to Credit Facility defined fixed charges with a minimum permitted ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00. At March31, 2016 , the Company's fixed charge ratio was 1.57 to 1.00. At March31, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt and financial covenants as required under the Credit Facility. 8.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND EQUITY COMPENSATION Share Repurchase Plan In November 2015, and in connection with the terms of the amended Credit Facility, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $20.0 million of the Company's common stock to be made during 2015 and 2016. In March 2016, the Company's board of directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to an additional $20.0 million of the Company's common stock during 2016 following expiration of the November 2015 program. The Company began repurchasing shares under this new program in April 2016 immediately following completion of the November 2015 program. In addition to the above, the Company has authorization under the Credit Facility to repurchase up to an additional $20.0 million of the Company's common stock during 2016. Once a repurchase is complete, the Company promptly retires the shares. The Company is also authorized to utilize up to $10.0 million in cash to purchase shares of the Company's common stock in each calendar year in connection with the Company's equity compensation programs for employees. The participants in the Company's equity plans may surrender shares of common stock in satisfaction of tax obligations arising from the vesting of restricted stock awards under such plans and in connection with the exercise of stock option awards. The deemed price paid is the closing price of the Company's common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date that the restricted stock vests or the shares of the Company's common stock are surrendered in exchange for stock option exercises. The option holder may elect a "net, net" exercise in connection with the exercise of employee stock options such that the option holder receives a number of shares equal to (i) the built-in gain in the option shares divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise, less (ii) a number of shares equal to the taxes due upon the exercise of the option divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise. The shares of Company common stock surrendered to the Company for taxes due on the exercise of the option are deemed repurchased by the Company. During the quarter ended March31, 2016 , the Company acquired 858,582 shares of the Company's common stock for $15.3 million ( $17.83 average price per share) through the open market repurchase program discussed above and 52,074 shares of the Company's common stock for $1.0 million ( $19.61 average price per share) in connection with the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and the exercise of stock options. Once repurchased, the Company immediately retired all such shares. 21 Equity-Based Compensation Plans At March31, 2016 , the Company had two active equity-based compensation plans under which awards may be made, including stock appreciation rights, restricted shares of common stock, performance awards, stock options and stock units. The Company's 2013 Employee Equity Incentive Plan (the "2013 Employee Plan") has 2,895,000 shares of the Company's common stock reserved for issuance and, at March31, 2016 , 350,022 shares of common stock were available for issuance. The Company's 2011 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan ("2011 Director Plan") has 250,000 shares of the Company's common stock registered for issuance and, at March31, 2016 , 69,264 shares of common stock were available for issuance. Stock Awards Stock awards, which include shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted performance units, are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock award compensation is recorded based on the award date fair value and charged to expense ratably through the requisite service period. The forfeiture of unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted performance units causes the reversal of all previous expense recorded as a reduction of current period expense. A summary of the stock award activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock awards was $2.3 million and $1.5 million for the quarters ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Unrecognized pre-tax expense of $18.8 million related to stock awards is expected to be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of 2.26 years for awards outstanding at March31, 2016 . Deferred Stock Unit Awards Deferred stock units are generally awarded to directors of the Company and represent the Company's obligation to transfer one share of the Company's common stock to the grantee at a future date and are generally fully vested on the date of grant. The expense related to the issuance of deferred stock units is recorded as of the date of the award. A summary of deferred stock unit activity is as follows: Expense associated with awards of deferred stock units was immaterial for the quarters ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. 22 Stock Options Stock options on the Company's common stock are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock options granted generally have a term of seven to ten years and an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. A summary of stock option activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock option grants was $0.0 million and $0.1 million in the quarters ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. There was no unrecognized pre-tax expense related to stock option grants at March31, 2016 . Financial data for stock option exercises are summarized as follows (in thousands): The intrinsic value calculations are based on the Company's closing stock price of $21.09 and $18.05 on March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The Company uses a binomial option-pricing model for valuation purposes to reflect the features of stock options granted. Volatility, expected term and dividend yield assumptions are based on the Company's historical experience. The risk-free rate is based on a U.S. treasury note with a maturity similar to the option grant's expected term. There were no stock options awarded during 2016 or 2015 . 9.TAXES ON INCOME The Company's effective tax rate in the quarter ended March31, 2016 was a benefit of 54.6% on a pre-tax loss and was favorably impacted by a $1.9 million benefit related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. For the quarter ended March31, 2015 , the Company's effective tax rate was 57.6% . The high effective tax rate on pre-tax income was unfavorably impacted by a relatively small income tax benefit recorded on pre-tax charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and the impact of discrete tax items that were related to non-deductible restructuring charges. In addition, the rate was negatively influenced by recording no tax benefit on losses in jurisdictions where valuation allowances were recorded against deferred tax assets. 23 10.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Litigation The Company is involved in certain litigation incidental to the conduct of its business and affairs. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not believe that the outcome of any such litigation, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Contingencies In February 2016, the Company entered into a conditional agreement to settle an outstanding dispute with a project client in the Infrastructure Solutions platform. As a result of the conditional settlement, the Company recorded a $2.7 million accrual as of December 31, 2015 in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic No. 450-20, Contingencies - Loss Contingencies ("FASB ASC 450-20"). In March 2016, the Company entered into the final agreement and paid the settlement amount in April 2016. In connection with the Brinderson acquisition, certain pre-acquisition matters were identified in 2014 whereby a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. The Company identified the range of possible loss from zero to $24 million . The Company establishes liabilities in accordance with FASB ASC 450-20, and accordingly, recorded an accrual related to various legal, tax, employee benefit and employment matters. As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , the remaining accrual relating to the matter was $10.5 million and represented the Company's reasonable estimate of probable loss related to the Brinderson pre-acquisition matters. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses against certain of these remaining matters. Purchase Commitments The Company had no material purchase commitments at March31, 2016 . Guarantees The Company has many contracts that require the Company to indemnify the other party against loss from claims, including claims of patent or trademark infringement or other third party claims for injuries, damages or losses. The Company has agreed to indemnify its surety against losses from third-party claims of subcontractors. The Company has not previously experienced material losses under these provisions and, while there can be no assurances, currently does not anticipate any future material adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company regularly reviews its exposure under all its engagements, including performance guarantees by contractual joint ventures and indemnification of its surety. As a result of the most recent review, the Company has determined that the risk of material loss is remote under these arrangements and has not recorded a liability for these risks at March31, 2016 on its consolidated balance sheet. 11.SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has three operating segments, which are also its reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions; Corrosion Protection; and Energy Services. The Company's operating segments correspond to its management organizational structure. Each operating segment has a president who reports to the Company's chief executive officer, who is also the chief operating decision manager ("CODM"). The operating results and financial information reported by each of the segments are evaluated separately, regularly reviewed and used by the CODM to evaluate segment performance, allocate resources and determine management incentive compensation. The following disaggregated financial results have been prepared using a management approach that is consistent with the basis and manner with which management internally disaggregates financial information for the purpose of making internal operating decisions. Financial results for discontinued operations have been removed for all periods presented, and prior year periods have been recast to conform to the current year presentation. The Company evaluates performance based on stand-alone operating income (loss). 24 Financial information by segment was as follows (in thousands): _______________________ (1) Results include: (i) $9.7 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3), (ii) $0.2 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals (see Note 3); (iii) $1.0 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $1.2 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations (see Note 1). (2) Results include: (i) $0.8 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); and (ii) $0.3 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Schultz and other acquisition targets. (3) Operating income for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 includes: (i) $2.2 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3), (ii) $0.2 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals (see Note 3); (iii) $1.0 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $1.2 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations (see Note 1). Operating income for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 includes $0.8 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). (4) Operating loss for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 includes: (i) $2.7 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). (5) Operating loss for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 includes: (i) $4.9 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating income for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 includes $0.3 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Schultz and other acquisition targets. 25 The following table summarizes revenues, gross profit and operating income by geographic region (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Revenues are attributed to the country of origin for the Company's legal entities. For a significant majority of its legal entities, the country of origin relates to the country or geographic area that it services. 12.DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As a matter of policy, the Company uses derivatives for risk management purposes, and does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. From time to time, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency cash flow transactions. For cash flow hedges, a gain or loss is recorded in the consolidated statements of operations upon settlement of the hedge. All of the Company's hedges that are designated as hedges for accounting purposes were highly effective; therefore, no notable amounts of hedge ineffectiveness were recorded in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the outstanding hedged balance. During each of the quarters ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , the Company recorded less than $0.1 million as a gain on the consolidated statements of operations in the other income (expense) line item upon settlement of the cash flow hedges. At March31, 2016 , the Company recorded a net deferred loss of $6.2 million related to the cash flow hedges in accrued expenses and other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheets and on the foreign currency translation adjustment and derivative transactions line of the consolidated statements of equity. The Company presents derivative instruments in the consolidated financial statements on a gross basis. The gross and net difference of derivative instruments are considered to be immaterial to the financial position presented in the financial statements. The Company engages in regular inter-company trade activities and receives royalty payments from its wholly-owned Canadian entities, paid in Canadian dollars, rather than the Company's functional currency, U.S. dollars. The Company utilizes foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the currency risk associated with the anticipated future payments from its Canadian entities. In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrored the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated by amortizing the $262.5 million same notional amount. The annualized borrowing rate of the swap at March31, 2016 was 3.46% . The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offset a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's 26 term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement, and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The following table provides a summary of the fair value amounts of our derivative instruments, all of which are Level 2 inputs as defined below (in thousands): FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements ("FASB ASC 820"), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements for interim and annual reporting periods. The guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1 defined as quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments; Level 2 defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3 defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. In accordance with FASB ASC 820, the Company determined that the instruments summarized below are derived from significant observable inputs, referred to as Level 2 inputs. The following table represents assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and the basis for that measurement at March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (in thousands): 27 The following table summarizes the Company's derivative positions at March31, 2016 : The Company had no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 inputs during the quarter ended March31, 2016 . Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods could affect the fair value estimates; however, the Company does not believe any such changes would have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value, which are based on Level 2 inputs as previously defined. 28 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is management's discussion and analysis of certain significant factors that have affected our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods included in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . We believe that certain accounting policies could potentially have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements, either because of the significance of the consolidated financial statements to which they relate or because they involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. A summary of such critical accounting policies can be found in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . Forward-Looking Information The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. We make forward-looking statements in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and on management's beliefs, assumptions, estimates and projections and are not guarantees of future events or results. When used in this report, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "plan," "intend," "may," "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred to in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29, 2016, and in our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, including this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed may not occur. In addition, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, suggested or projected. Except as required by law, we do not assume a duty to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, review additional disclosures made by us from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please use caution and do not place reliance on forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements. Executive Summary We are a global leader in infrastructure protection and maintenance, providing proprietary technologies and services: (i) to protect against the corrosion of industrial pipelines; (ii) to rehabilitate and strengthen water, wastewater, energy and mining piping systems as well as buildings, bridges, tunnels and other commercial and industrial structures; and (iii) to utilize integrated professional services in engineering, procurement, construction, maintenance and turnaround services for a broad range of energy related industries. Our business activities include manufacturing, distribution, maintenance, construction, installation, coating and insulation, cathodic protection, research and development and licensing. Our products and services are currently utilized and performed in approximately 80 countries across six continents. We believe the depth and breadth of our products and services platform make us a leading provider for the world's infrastructure rehabilitation and protection needs. Strategy Initiatives Aegion is committed to being a valued partner to our customers. We are focused on expanding those relationships by improving execution in all that we do while also developing or acquiring innovative technologies and comprehensive services to enhance our capabilities to help our customers solve complex infrastructure problems. We are pursuing a number of strategic initiatives, including the following: We seek to create a diverse portfolio of near trenchless installed technologies to rehabilitate pipelines under pressure, primarily potable water, through both internal development and acquisitions to address our customers' needs to maintain and improve their aging and damaged water and wastewater pipeline infrastructure. On February 18, 2016, we acquired Underground Solutions, Inc., adding their patented Fusible PVC pipe technology to expand our presence in the pressure pipe market. We are also pursuing two internal R&D efforts to improve existing cured-in-place pipe rehabilitation products and develop a new technology specifically for the small diameter pipeline rehabilitation portion of the market. With our Fyfe /Fibrwrap technology for large diameter pipelines, we plan to offer our customers a broader set of trenchless rehabilitation solutions in the years to come. Our enhanced portfolio of technologies gives us a sizeable presence in a highly fragmented market in North America, with approximately $100 million in estimated 2016 revenues. 29 Our customers have a growing need to more accurately assess and manage their infrastructure assets. This is particularly the case in the midstream pipeline market given the need for safety, regulatory compliance and protecting the environment. We are investing to create an asset integrity program designed to increase the accuracy of the important pipeline corrosion assessment data we collect today and upgrade how we share this valuable information with customers. We plan to use geospatial mapping software and data management systems to interface with the database systems most commonly used by our large customers. We are also creating a robust database repository to help other customers with their integrity management systems. Our ability to automate data gathering, storage and visualization of the content we provide can improve our efficiency in operations and standardize our proposals, processes and reporting format. We seek to add over time new services in the areas of data validation, advanced analytics, predictive maintenance and improve customer regulatory compliance. We strive to be a strong partner with our customers across the markets we serve. Our experience and expertise give us the ability to efficiently adopt new technologies and services to expand our abilities to solve the problems our customers face. Our strategy is to find value added and higher margin technologies and services, which complement our existing portfolio, expand our service offerings and give us the opportunity to strengthen our relationships with customers. To that end, we recently hired a chief sales officer to bring greater focus on our sales efforts across the Company. Aegion is committed to improving as a company and charting the right course for future growth. In 2015, we formalized a set of core values across the company to guide us toward our mission to keep infrastructure working better, safer and longer for our customers throughout the world. Our five core values are: Zero safety incidents are possible: Every Aegion employee is expected to deliver best-in-class safety performance at all times. Do what's right: Honesty, integrity and respect guide our decision-making, our actions and our relationships with customers, stockholders, colleagues and the communities where we live and work. We Solve Problems: We support our customers' success by understanding better than anyone how to identify and solve problems. Results Matter: We own the consequences of our actions and realize we are ultimately accountable to our customers and stockholders. Be Better: We never settle for the status quo and strive each day to do better and be better. In 2016, we introduced The Aegion Way, an initiative founded on the proven Lean principles of continuous improvement, which utilizes the scientific method and individual accountability to continuously eliminate waste, errors, redundancies and inefficiencies. The Aegion Way informs Aegion employees on how to live the values, especially our efforts to be better and solve problems. Our Segments We have three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions, Corrosion Protection and Energy Services. Our operating segments correspond to our management organizational structure. Each operating segment has leadership that reports to our chief executive officer, who is also the chief operating decision manager ("CODM"). The operating results and financial information reported by each of the segments are evaluated separately, reviewed regularly and used by the CODM to evaluate segment performance, allocate resources and determine management incentive compensation. Infrastructure Solutions Aging urban infrastructure will require increasing rehabilitation and maintenance over the long term. While the pace of growth is primarily driven by government funding, the overall market needs result in a long-term stable growth opportunity for Aegion and its market leading brands, Insituform , Fyfe , Tyfo , Fibrwrap Underground Solutions and Fusible PVC . We optimize our municipal rehabilitation and commercial infrastructure operations by: (i) focusing on sales and operational excellence; (ii) adding new, innovative technologies and services through licensing or selective acquisitions; (iii) enhancing returns through product manufacturing and increased third-party product sales; and (iv) addressing the need in international markets with alternative business models, including licensing and product sales. Corrosion Protection Investment in North America's pipeline infrastructure is required to transport product from non-conventional oil and gas fields, the Gulf of Mexico deep-water reserves and the oil and gas shale reserves, to end markets. Corrosion Protection has a broad portfolio of technologies and services to protect pipelines, including cathodic protection, interior pipe linings, interior and exterior pipe corrosion prevention coatings and insulation coatings as well as an increasing offering of inspection and repair capabilities. We provide solutions to customers to enhance the safety, environmental integrity, reliability and compliance of their pipelines in the oil and gas market. We 30 will seek to license or acquire new technologies based on the needs of our customers, those of which would benefit from our market-leading presence and sizeable distribution channel. We are investing in systems and processes designed to offer better solutions and strengthen the relationships with our customers. Energy Services With the continued development of conventional oil and gas reserves, North America will have competitive prices for refinery and petrochemical feedstocks. Energy Services offers a unique value proposition based on its world class safety and labor productivity programs, which allow us to provide cost effective maintenance, turnaround and construction services at our customers' refineries and petrochemical facilities. Business Outlook For 2016, we anticipate favorable and stable end markets within the municipal water and wastewater and commercial infrastructure markets, served by the Infrastructure Solutions segment, and United States West Coast downstream refining, served by the Energy Services segment, which comprise a majority of our business. Infrastructure Solutions remains focused on maintaining its leadership position by improving execution with our crew-based installation methods and improving upon our low cost position in manufacturing the products used to rehabilitate aging and damaged water and wastewater pipelines globally, but in particular in the North American market. The acquisition of Underground Solutions on February 18, 2016 represents an important step to advance our strategic objective to expand our presence in the growing near trenchless pressure pipe rehabilitation market in North America. Underground Solutions' contributions in 2016 are expected to be accretive to earnings per share. We anticipate a second full year of challenging upstream energy market conditions as a result of the persistent low oil price environment. In January 2016, we took actions to reduce our exposure in high-cost oil extraction regions in Canada and Central California. As a result of customer actions and our own decisions, we expect an approximate $100 million reduction in annual revenues in those two regions. During the fourth quarter of 2015, two large upstream customers in Central California significantly reduced our time and material maintenance contracts going forward, which represented approximately $70 million in annual revenues. Additionally, we sold our 51% ownership in a Western Canada pipe coating joint venture on February 1, 2016, which represented approximately $30 million in annual revenues. These actions reduced the Company's upstream exposure to between 5 to 10 percent of expected total 2016 revenues from 15 to 20 percent in 2014. We also announced a restructuring plan to reduce annual costs across the entire organization in 2016 by approximately $15 million, primarily to preserve margins in the Energy Services segment and right-size the Corrosion Protection segment to better compete in the energy markets. The Corrosion Protection platform is likely to experience a more severe impact from these market conditions than in 2015 because of reduced market activity, especially for the pipe coating facility in Louisiana prior to the expected start up of the large pipe coating and insulation project later in the year. While we expect the midstream market to maintain investment, the risk is greater for project delays and even some cancellations. A large off-shore, deep-water, pipe coating and insulation project contract, with a multi-year value of more than $130 million, has the potential to nearly offset the expected negative impact if we are able to begin pipe coating production at our Louisiana coating facility in the fourth quarter of 2016. The Energy Services platform will rely more on the downstream business as a result of the actions to reduce Aegion Energy Services' upstream exposure. Market conditions indicate another expected solid year for refinery maintenance and other facility services on the West Coast. While we benefited in 2015 from some one-time events that increased billable hours, we anticipate fewer turnaround projects from our customers in 2016. The favorable market conditions for a majority of Aegion's business and the proactive strategic actions we have taken give us the opportunity for stability in a challenging energy market environment expected in 2016. Longer-term, we believe our diversified portfolio of technologies and services can deliver sustainable growth as we have repositioned our upstream oil exposure to reflect current market realities. The strategic initiatives we previously outlined are expected to: (i) enhance our long-term growth opportunities by accessing new customers and new markets to rehabilitate water pressure pipelines, (ii) enable more effective pipeline asset integrity management in the growing midstream market and (iii) establish a continuous improvement culture with core values aimed at driving margin expansion and lowering costs over time in an effort to drive organic growth. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures Acquisition of Underground Solutions On February 18, 2016, we acquired Underground Solutions for a purchase price of $85 million plus an additional $5.3 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards. These amounts are subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and post-closing adjustments to the value of the net operating loss tax asset. The purchase price included $6.3 million held in escrow as security for the post-closing purchase price 31 adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of Underground Solutions' previous owners. The transaction was funded partially from our cash balances and partially from borrowings under our revolving credit facility. To supplement the domestic cash balances, we repatriated $30.4 million from foreign subsidiaries to the United States to assist in funding the transaction, incurring approximately $3.5 million in additional taxes, a reserve for which was included in our tax provision amounts for 2015. Underground Solutions provides infrastructure technologies for water, sewer and conduit applications and is part of our Infrastructure Solutions reportable segment. 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, our board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce our exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated costs. As part of management's ongoing assessment of our energy-related businesses, management determined that the persistent low price of oil is expected to create market challenges for the foreseeable future, including reduced customer spending in 2016. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reposition Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reduce Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting our interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-size Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reduce corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual costs by approximately $15.0 million to $16.0 million, most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. Our initial savings estimate was approximately $15.0 million. We expect to reduce headcount by approximately 900 employees, or 14.5% of our total workforce, and record estimated pre-tax charges, most of which are cash charges, of between $11.0 million to $13.0 million , which is an increase from our original estimate between $7.0 million to $9.0 million. The increased cost estimate is the result of longer wind-down efforts associated with the downsizing of our upstream operations in Energy Services and Corrosion Protection and includes expected additional costs related to employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other costs associated with the restructuring. Total pre-tax restructuring charges during the first quarter of 2016 were $9.7 million ( $6.6 million after tax), all of which were cash charges, and consisted primarily of employee severance and benefits, early lease termination other costs associated with the restructuring efforts as described above. On February 1, 2016, we sold our fifty-one percent (51%) interest in our Canadian coating joint venture, Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), to our joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The sale price was US $9.6 million, which consisted of a US $7.6 million payment at closing and a US $2.0 million promissory note payable to us on or before August 1, 2016. BPPC served as our pipe coating and insulation operation in Canada. The sale of our interest in BPPC was part of a broader effort to reduce our exposure in the North American upstream market in light of expectations for a prolonged low oil price environment. See the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further information. 2014 Restructuring On October 6, 2014, our board of directors approved the 2014 Restructuring to improve gross margins and profitability in the long term by exiting low-return markets and reducing the size and cost of our overhead structure. The 2014 Restructuring generated annual operating cost savings of approximately $10.8 million, which was in-line with our initial estimate, and consisted of approximately $8.4 million and $2.4 million of recognized savings within Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection, respectively. We achieved these cost savings by (i) exiting certain unprofitable international locations for our Insituform business and consolidating our worldwide Fyfe business with the global Insituform business, all of which is in Infrastructure Solutions; and (ii) eliminating certain idle facilities in our Bayou pipe coating operation in Louisiana, which is in Corrosion Protection. We have substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. Total headcount reductions were 86 as of March 31, 2016. Remaining headcount reductions and cash costs related to the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material. In February 2015, and in connection with the 2014 Restructuring, we sold our wholly-owned subsidiary, VII, our French cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP") contracting operation, to certain employees of VII. In connection with the sale, we entered into a five-year exclusive tube supply agreement whereby VII will purchase liners from Insituform Lining. VII will also be entitled to continue to use its trade name based on a trade mark license granted for the same five-year time period. The sale resulted in a loss of approximately $2.9 million that was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations during the first quarter of 2015. See the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further information. Total pre-tax restructuring charges since inception were $60.3 million ($44.8 million after tax) and consisted of non-cash charges totaling $48.3 million and cash charges totaling $12.0 million. The non-cash charges of $48.3 million included (i) $22.2 million related to the impairment of certain long-lived assets and definite-lived intangible assets for Bayou's pipe coating operation in Louisiana, which is reported in Corrosion Protection, and (ii) $26.1 million related to impairment of definite-lived intangible assets, allowances for accounts receivable, write-off of certain other current assets and long-lived assets, inventory obsolescence, as well as losses related to the sales of our CIPP contracting operations in France and Switzerland, which are 32 reported in Infrastructure Solutions. Cash charges totaling $12.0 million included employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other costs associated with the restructuring of Insituform's European and Asia-Pacific operations and Fyfe's worldwide business. While estimated remaining cash costs to be incurred in 2016 for the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material, we expect to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the disposal of certain entities as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. Results of Operations Quarters Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Overview Consolidated Results Key financial data for consolidated operations was as follows: Revenues Revenues decrease d $15.3 million , or 4.9% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we exited, or were in the process of exiting, certain operations (or "restructured operations") located in Europe and Asia-Pacific within Infrastructure Solutions during the first quarter of 2015. Excluding revenues from restructured operations, revenues decreased $13.1 million, or 4.3%, in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . The decrease in revenues in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 was primarily due to more challenging market conditions in Energy Services' upstream operation in the United States and Corrosion Protection's upstream, and to a lessor extent midstream, operations primarily in the Canadian region. Additionally, there was a decrease of $7.9 million related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest, BPPC, on February 1, 2016. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases primarily related to North American contracting installation services activity in Infrastructure Solutions and increased maintenance and turnaround services activity in our downstream operation in Energy Services. Underground Solutions, which was acquired on February 18, 2016 and is reported in the Infrastructure Solutions segment, contributed $4.7 million in revenue during the first quarter of 2016. Foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar (most notably the Canadian dollar, Chilean peso, British pound and Australian dollar) had a negative impact on consolidated revenues of $5.6 million during the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year quarter. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit decrease d $4.8 million , or 8.1% , and gross profit margin decline d 60 basis points in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to declining revenues in Energy Services' upstream operation and Corrosion Protection's Canadian operations as noted above. There was a $2.2 million decrease in gross profit related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest. Partially offsetting the decrease in gross profit was an increase primarily related to higher revenues in Infrastructure Solutions' North American operation and Energy Services' downstream operation. Included in the increase in gross profit for Infrastructure Solutions was gross profit contribution from Underground Solutions totaling $1.4 million, which was net of an expense of $1.2 million related to the recognition of inventory step up required in the accounting for business combinations. The decline in gross profit margin in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 was primarily due to the negative impacts from challenging market conditions in 33 the upstream energy market for Energy Services and the Canadian energy market for Corrosion Protection, partially offset by an increase related to improved manufacturing efficiencies, material cost savings and organic growth in Infrastructure Solutions, notably in the United States. Gross profit was negatively impacted by the change in foreign currency rates by $1.0 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increase d $1.6 million , or 3.3% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring and the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $2.7 million and $0.2 million in operating expenses in the first quarter of 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The restructuring charges in the first quarter of 2016 consisted mostly of severance and employee-related benefits, early lease termination and other restructuring-related costs as part our 2016 Restructuring as we downsized our upstream operation within Energy Services and Corrosion Protection. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d by $0.9 million , or 1.9% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. The decrease was primarily due to our restructuring efforts, which generated cost savings in the upstream operation in Energy Services and cost savings in our North American operation, which included the integration of our Fyfe/Fibrwrap business with our Insituform business within Infrastructure Solutions. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in operating expenses totaling $1.4 million contributed by newly acquired Underground Solutions. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 17.3% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 15.9% in the first quarter of 2015. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.3% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 15.8% in the first quarter of 2015 . Operating expenses were favorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates by $1.0 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Consolidated Net Income (Loss) Consolidated net loss was $3.8 million in the first quarter of 2016, a decline of $5.2 million, or 379.0%, from consolidated net income of $1.4 million in the first quarter of 2015. Excluding the following pre-tax items: (i) 2016 Restructuring charges of $9.7 million in the first quarter of 2016, (ii) 2014 Restructuring charges of $(0.2) million and $0.8 million in the first quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively, (iii) inventory step up costs related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions of $1.2 million in the first quarter of 2016, and (iv) acquisition-related expenses of $1.0 million and $0.3 million in the first quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively; consolidated net income was $4.3 million in the first quarter of 2016, a decrease of $0.5 million, or 10.6%, from consolidated net income of $4.8 million in the first quarter of 2015. The decrease in consolidated net income, excluding the items noted above, was primarily due to the decline in project activities in Energy Services' upstream operation as we downsized our exposure to the upstream energy market and in Corrosion Protection's operations in Canada. As previously discussed, these operations were negatively impacted by declines in customer spending resulting from the persistent low oil price environment. Partially offsetting the decrease in consolidated net income was an increase primarily driven by North American contracting installation services activity, including the contribution from Underground Solutions, in Infrastructure Solutions and increased maintenance and turnaround services activity in our downstream operation in Energy Services. Additionally, operating expense savings related to our restructuring efforts were accretive to net income for the comparable periods. The change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar had an immaterial impact on the consolidated net income (loss) in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Contract Backlog Contract backlog is our expectation of revenues to be generated from received, signed and uncompleted contracts, the cancellation of which is not anticipated at the time of reporting. The Company assumes that these signed contracts are funded. For its government or municipal contracts, the Company's customers generally obtain funding through local budgets or pre-approved bond financing. The Company has not undertaken a process to verify funding status of these contracts and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate what portion, if any, of its contracts in backlog have not been funded. However, the Company has little history of signed contracts being canceled due to the lack of funding. Contract backlog excludes any term contract amounts for which there are not specific and determinable work releases or values beyond a renewal date in the forward 12-month period. Projects where we have been advised that we are the low bidder, but have not formally been awarded the contract, are not included. Although backlog represents only those contracts and Master Service Agreements ("MSAs") that are considered to be firm, there can be no assurance that cancellation or scope adjustments will not occur with respect to such contracts. 34 The following table sets forth our consolidated backlog by segment (in millions): __________________________ (1) March 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and March 31, 2015 included backlog from restructured entities of zero, $0.5 million and $7.7 million, respectively. (2) March 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and March 31, 2015 included upstream-related backlog of $34.4 million, $41.1 million and $83.0 million, respectively. (3) Represents expected unrecognized revenues to be realized under long-term MSAs and other signed contracts. If the remaining term of these arrangements exceeds 12 months, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such arrangements included in backlog are limited to only the next 12 months of expected revenues. Within our Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection segments, certain contracts are performed through our variable interest entities, in which we own a controlling portion of the entity. As of March31, 2016 , 0.1% and 37.8% of our Infrastructure Solutions backlog and Corrosion Protection backlog, respectively, related to these variable interest entities. A substantial majority of our contracts in these two segments are fixed price contracts with individual private businesses and municipal and federal government entities across the world. Energy Services, on the other hand, generally enters into cost reimbursable contracts that are based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. Infrastructure Solutions Segment Key financial data for Infrastructure Solutions was as follows: Revenues Revenues in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $3.3 million , or 2.7% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we exited, or were in the process of exiting, certain operations located in Europe and Asia-Pacific during the first quarter of 2015. Excluding revenues from restructured operations, revenues for Infrastructure Solutions increased $5.4 million, or 4.6%, in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . The increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in contracting installation services activity in our North American operation, which was partially offset by small revenue declines in our European and Asia-Pacific operations. Underground Solutions, which was acquired on February 18, 2016, contributed $4.7 million in revenues during the first quarter of 2016 . Revenues were unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $1.8 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $1.1 million , or 3.9% , and gross profit margin improve d 30 basis points in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . Gross profit increased primarily due to increased revenues in our North American operation including $1.4 million in gross profit generated from Underground Solutions. Partially 35 offsetting the increase in gross profit was an expense of $1.2 million related to the recognition of inventory step up required in the accounting for business combinations related to the Underground Solutions acquisition. Gross profit from our European and Asia-Pacific operations declined mainly due to the exiting of certain locations as part of our 2014 Restructuring. Gross profit margin increase d primarily due to continued efficiency improvements in our North American manufacturing business and savings related to certain material costs, as well as the margin contribution from Underground Solutions. Gross profit was unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates by $0.3 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $0.3 million , or 1.5% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2015 related to the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses increase d $0.5 million , or 2.5% . The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Underground Solutions, which contributed $1.4 million in operating expenses in the first quarter of 2016. Partially offsetting the increase in operating expenses was a decrease related to efficiencies gained as part of the 2014 Restructuring mostly related to the integration of our Fyfe/Fibrwrap business with our Insituform business for the comparable periods. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.6% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 16.8% in the first quarter of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.7% in both the first quarter of 2016 and the first quarter of 2015. Operating expenses were favorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year quarter. Operating Income and Operating Margin Operating income in Infrastructure Solutions decrease d $1.5 million , or 20.8% , to $5.8 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to $7.3 million in the first quarter of 2015 . Operating margin declined 140 basis points to 4.6% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 6.0% in the first quarter of 2015 . As part of our restructuring efforts, we recognized charges related to the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring of $2.0 million in the first quarter of 2016 and charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $0.8 million in the first quarter of 2015 . Additionally, as a result of the Underground Solutions acquisition, we incurred an expense of $1.2 million related to the recognition of inventory step up and $1.0 million in acquisition-related expenses in the first quarter of 2016. Excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, operating income increase d $1.9 million , or 22.7% , to $10.0 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to $8.2 million in the first quarter of 2015 . Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges and acquisition-related expenses, improve d 130 basis points to 8.0% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 6.7% in the first quarter of 2015 . The increases in operating income and operating margin in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 were primarily due to increased revenues and related gross profit in our North American operation and the contribution from Underground Solutions since its acquisition in February 2016. Operating income for Infrastructure Solutions was unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year quarter. Corrosion Protection Segment Key financial data for Corrosion Protection was as follows: 36 Revenues Revenues in Corrosion Protection decrease d $9.3 million , or 9.1% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . Demand for our services in the Canadian market declined as a result of the persistent low oil price environment which caused revenues generated from our Canadian cathodic protection operation, our Canadian industrial linings operation and our Canadian pipe coating operation to decrease $18.2 million. Included in the $18.2 million decline in Canadian revenues was a decrease of $7.9 million related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest, BPPC, on February 1, 2016. Additionally, revenues in our robotic and field coating operation decreased as a result of reduced customer demand within the energy market. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues was an increase primarily related to project activity within our domestic pipe coating operation, our domestic cathodic protection operation and our industrial linings operation in South America, the latter of which benefited from a large project. Revenues were unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S dollar by $3.8 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Corrosion Protection decrease d $3.6 million , or 17.4% , and gross profit margin decline d 190 basis points in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . As noted above, revenues generated from our Canadian operations declined. This decline caused the related gross profit from our Canadian operations to decrease $6.2 million. Included in the $6.2 million decrease in gross profit from our Canadian operations was a decrease of $2.2 million related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest. Additionally, gross profit in our robotic and field coating operation decreased as a result of declining revenues from fewer projects. Partially offsetting the decrease in gross profit was an increase primarily related to project activity within certain of our domestic and South American operations as noted above. Gross profit margin declined mainly as a result of lower labor and equipment utilization related to declining project activity throughout our Canadian operations and our robotic and field coating operation. The decrease in gross profit margin was partially offset by an increase primarily related to improved labor and and equipment utilization rates in our domestic cathodic protection operation, our industrial linings operation and our pipe coating operation in Louisiana. Gross profit was unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.7 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year quarter. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Corrosion Protection increase d $0.1 million , or 0.6% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.3 million related to the downsizing of certain upstream and midstream operations in the first quarter of 2016. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $0.2 million , or 1.0% , primarily due to controlled spending efforts within in our robotic and field coating operation and operating expense savings related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 22.1% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 20.0% in the first quarter of 2015. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 21.8% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 20.0% in the first quarter of 2015. Operating expenses were favorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.8 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year quarter. Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income (loss) in Corrosion Protection decrease d $6.2 million , or 1,234.0% , to a loss of $5.7 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to income of $0.5 million in the first quarter of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 660 basis points to (6.1)% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 0.5% in the first quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $2.7 million in the first quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income (loss) decrease d $3.4 million , or 686.6% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 and operating margin declined 370 basis points to (3.2)% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 0.5% in the first quarter of 2015. The decrease in operating income (loss) was primarily due to declining revenues and gross profit stemming from challenging market conditions for our Canadian operations and our robotic and field joint coating operation. Operating income for Corrosion Protection was favorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates by $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year quarter. 37 Energy Services Segment Key financial data for Energy Services was as follows: In response to the challenges within the upstream energy market, we enacted the 2016 Restructuring in an effort to decrease our exposure to the upstream energy market and reduce expenses. Conversely, the downstream portion of the energy market has remained robust due to continued strong refining production, which has had a positive impact on our revenues and gross profit for the first quarter of 2016. Energy Services operates solely in the United States and generates all revenues and incurs all expenses in U.S. dollars. There were no impacts from foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar for the segment for the reported periods. Revenues Revenues in Energy Services decrease d $9.3 million , or 10.9% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to an $18.0 million decline in revenues from our upstream operation, located primarily in Central California, as activities have been curtailed due to tightened customer spending in response to the persistent low oil price environment. Due to the decline in upstream project activity, we reduced our upstream operation in an effort to improve profitability as part of the 2016 Restructuring, which further decreased revenues. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues was an increase of $8.7 million in refining maintenance and turnaround services activities in our downstream operation in the western United States. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Energy Services decrease d $2.3 million , or 23.3% , and gross profit margin decline d 160 basis points in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 . The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to declining revenues in our upstream operation as noted above. Partially offsetting this decrease in gross profit was an increase related to higher revenues in our downstream operation as refining activities with our customers remained robust. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to price pressures and reductions in higher margin activities in our upstream operation, thereby making it more challenging to recover our labor and equipment costs. Additionally, we experienced lower downstream margins related to client driven shifts in the mix of work and lower upstream margins related additional cost overruns on certain lump sum construction projects during the first quarter of 2016. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Energy Services increased $1.2 million , or 15.0% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $2.5 million in the first quarter of 2016 primarily related to wind-down and other restructuring-related costs as we downsized our upstream operation. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $1.3 million, or 16.0%, primarily due to controlled spending efforts in response to recent market challenges and as part of our savings initiatives related to the restructuring. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 12.4% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 9.6% in the first quarter of 2015 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.1% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 9.6% in the first quarter of 2015. Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income (loss) in Energy Services decrease d $5.6 million , or 430.8% , to a loss of $4.3 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to income of $1.3 million in the first quarter of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 710 basis points to (5.6)% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 1.5% in the first quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits, early lease 38 termination and other restructuring costs. Additionally, we incurred $0.3 million in acquisition-related expenses in the first quarter of 2015 related to the purchase of Schultz. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges and acquisition-related expenses, operating income decrease d $1.0 million , or 64.4% , in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 and operating margin declined 110 basis points to 0.8% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 1.9% in the first quarter of 2015. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to a decrease in revenues and gross profit margin declines in our upstream operation, along with lower margins in our downstream operation, as noted above. Operating expense savings partially offset the declines in operating income and operating margin. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income and Expense Interest income decreased $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period primarily due to lower U.S. cash balances during the current year. Interest expense increased $0.4 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 due to higher borrowing costs under the Company's new Credit Facility and an increase in amortized loan fees. Other Income (Expense) Other expense was $1.0 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and primarily related to foreign currency exchange losses on revalued assets and liabilities. For the first quarter of 2015, other expense was $2.8 million , primarily driven by the $2.9 million loss recognized on the sale of Video Injection - Insituform SAS. Taxes (Benefit) on Income (Loss) Taxes on income (loss) decreased $6.6 million during the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was a benefit of 54.6% in the quarter ended March 31, 2016 and 57.6% in the quarter ended March 31, 2015. The effective tax rate in the quarter ended March 31, 2016 was favorably impacted by a $1.9 million benefit related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. The effective tax rate in the quarter ended March 31, 2015 was unfavorably impacted by a relatively small income tax benefit recorded on pre-tax charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and the impact of discrete tax items related to non-deductible restructuring charges. Non-controlling Interests Losses attributable to non-controlling interests was $0.2 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2016 while income attributable to non-controlling interests was less than $0.1 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2015. In the first quarter of 2016, losses from our joint ventures in Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Louisiana were partially offset by profitability from our joint venture in Oman. In the first quarter of 2015, increased profitability in our coating joint venture in Canada was offset by increased losses from our insulation coating joint venture in Louisiana, which was essentially in start up phase with minimal production during the first quarter of 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents Restricted cash held in escrow primarily relates to funds reserved for legal requirements, deposits made in lieu of retention on specific projects performed for municipalities and state agencies, or advance customer payments and compensating balances for bank undertakings in Europe. Changes in restricted cash flows are reported in the consolidated statements of cash flows based on the nature of the restriction. Sources and Uses of Cash We expect the principal operational use of funds for the foreseeable future will be for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, debt service and share repurchases. During the first quarter of 2016, capital expenditures were 39 primarily related to the pipe coating and insulation project in our Corrosion Protection platform. Additionally, capital expenditures were also used to support the growth and maintenance capital in our Infrastructure Solutions operations. For the full year of 2016, we expect a comparable level of capital expenditures compared to 2015, with slightly increased levels to complete the pipe-coating plant in Louisiana and support growth of our Infrastructure Solutions business, partially offset by decreased levels in certain of our Corrosion Protection and Energy Services operations as we minimize spending in response to our 2016 Restructuring efforts. As part of our 2016 Restructuring, we incurred $9.7 million in cash charges during the first quarter of 2016 related to employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and early lease termination costs as we reposition our Energy Services' upstream operations in California, right-size Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively, and reduce corporate and other operating costs. We estimate our remaining cash costs in 2016 to be approximately $2.0 million to $3.0 million related to these activities. These actions, however, are expected to reduce future consolidated annual costs between $15.0 million to $16.0 million, most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. As part of our 2014 Restructuring, we incurred less than $0.1 million in cash charges during the first quarter of 2016 related to severance and benefits costs and other restructuring costs associated with exiting certain foreign locations. While estimated remaining cash costs to be incurred in 2016 for the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material, we expect to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the disposal of certain entities as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. At March31, 2016 , our cash balances were located worldwide for working capital and support needs. Given the breadth of our international operations, approximately $77.9 million, or 61.0%, of our cash was denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar as of March31, 2016 . We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences or be subject to regulatory capital requirements; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. As part of the February 2016 acquisition of Underground Solutions, we repatriated approximately $30.4 million from foreign subsidiaries to assist in funding the transaction, incurring approximately $3.5 million in additional taxes. These were viewed as one-time, special-use transactions. With few exceptions, U.S. income taxes, net of applicable foreign tax credits, have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries. Our intention is to permanently reinvest these earnings. Our primary source of cash is operating activities. We occasionally borrow under our line of credit's available capacity to fund operating activities, including working capital investments. Our operating activities include the collection of accounts receivable as well as the ultimate billing and collection of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings. At March31, 2016 , we believed our net accounts receivable and our costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, as reported on our consolidated balance sheet, were fully collectible and a significant portion of the receivables will be collected within the next twelve months. At March31, 2016 , we had certain net receivables (as discussed in the following paragraph) that we believe will be collected but are being disputed by the customer in some manner, which has impacted or may meaningfully impact the timing of collection or require us to invoke our contractual rights to an arbitration or mediation process, or take legal action. If in a future period we believe any of these receivables are no longer collectible, we would increase our allowance for bad debts through a charge to earnings. As of March31, 2016 , we had approximately $4.4 million in receivables related to certain projects in Texas and Morocco that have been delayed in payment for separate and unavoidable reasons. We are in various stages of discussions and dispute resolution with the project clients regarding such receivables. In each of the above instances, the customer has failed to meet its payment obligations in the time frame set forth in the respective contracts. The Company believes that it has performed its obligations pursuant to such contracts, and is duly exercising its rights under the respective contracts to receive payment. The Company believes the likelihood of success in each of these cases is probable and the Company is vigorously defending its position in each respective contract. In March 2016, we settled an outstanding dispute with a project client in the Infrastructure Solutions platform. In connection with the settlement, we agreed to forgo approximately $7.5 million in receivables owed by our client and we agreed to pay an additional $2.4 million. During April 2016, we paid the settlement amount. The customer receivable, along with the related allowance for doubtful account, was written off as of March 31, 2016. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operating activities used $2.0 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to $12.2 million used in the first quarter of 2015. This follows the typical pattern of cash flow from operating activities being at its seasonally lowest 40 during the first quarter of the year. The increase in operating cash flow from the prior year quarter was primarily due to lower outflows related to working capital, partially offset by lower net income, inclusive of non-cash items. Working capital used $11.6 million of cash during the first quarter of 2016 compared to $25.8 million used in the comparable period of 2015. During the first quarter of 2016, cash flow provided by working capital requirements was primarily impacted by lower days sales outstanding, which decreased approximately 23 days at March 31, 2016 compared to March 31, 2015, partially due to the timing of billing and advance deposits received on certain coatings projects at our Bayou Louisiana facility and the impact of stronger collections in all operations globally. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities used $91.8 million during the first quarter of 2016 compared to $11.5 million used in the comparable period of 2015. During the first quarter of 2016 and 2015, we used $85.2 million and $6.5 million , respectively, to acquire Underground Solutions and Schultz Mechanical Contractors. During the first quarter of 2016, we received proceeds of $4.6 million , net of cash disposed, from the sale of our interests in Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada. We used $10.1 million in cash for capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2016 compared to $4.2 million in the prior year quarter. In the first quarter of 2016 and 2015, $1.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively, of non-cash capital expenditures were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2016 and 2015 were partially offset by $1.0 million and $0.3 million , respectively, in proceeds received from asset disposals. We anticipate approximately $30.0 million to $35.0 million to be spent in 2016 on capital expenditures to support our global operations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities provided $13.3 million during the first quarter of 2016 compared to $11.7 million used in the first quarter of 2015. During the first quarter of 2016 and 2015, we used net cash of $16.3 million and $6.2 million , respectively, of cash to repurchase 910,656 and 320,000 shares, respectively, of our common stock through open market purchases and in connection with our equity compensation programs as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report. We borrowed $34.0 million from our line of credit during the first quarter of 2016, primarily to fund the acquisition of Underground Solutions, and we used cash of $4.4 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan. During the first quarter of 2015, we used cash of $6.5 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan and, as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report, we made a $26.5 million mandatory prepayment on the balance of our term loan, utilizing $26.0 million from our line of credit to fund the term loan prepayment. Long-Term Debt In October 2015, we entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of banks. Bank of America, N.A. served as the sole administrative agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association acted as co-syndication agents. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Securities LLC, and U.S. Bank National Association acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers in the syndication of the credit facility. The credit facility consists of a $300.0 million five-year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five-year term loan facility, each with an original maturity date in October 2020. Generally, interest is charged on the principal amounts outstanding under the credit facility at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus an applicable rate ranging from 1.25% to 2.25% depending on our consolidated leverage ratio. We can also opt for an interest rate equal to a base rate (as defined in the credit documents) plus an applicable rate, which is also based on our consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable LIBOR borrowing rate (LIBOR plus our applicable rate) as of March31, 2016 was approximately 2.48% . Our indebtedness at March31, 2016 consisted of $341.3 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the credit facility and $34.0 million on the line of credit under the credit facility. In February 2016, we borrowed $30.0 million on the line of credit to help fund the acquisition of Underground Solutions and in March 2016 we borrowed $4.0 million for international working capital needs. Additionally, we designated $9.6 million of debt held by our joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by our joint venture partners) as third-party debt in our consolidated financial statements and held $0.2 million of third-party notes and bank debt at March31, 2016 . Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2014, our previous credit facility required an annual mandatory prepayment against the term loan obligation in an amount equal to 50% of the Excess Cash Flow, as defined by the credit facility, if our Consolidated Leverage Ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.0, as of the end of that fiscal year. Our Consolidated Leverage Ratio at December 31, 2014 was 2.90 to 1.0. On March 31, 2015, we made the required term loan prepayment in the amount of $26.5 million, utilizing $26.0 million from the line of credit to fund the term loan prepayment obligation. 41 As of March31, 2016 , we had $31.8 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the credit facility. Of such amount, $16.6 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $15.2 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. In October 2015, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrored the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of our $350.0 million term loan drawn from our credit facility. The swap requires us to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for us to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated by amortizing the $262.5 million same notional amount. The annualized borrowing rate of the swap at March31, 2016 was 3.46% . The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offset a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of our term loan from the credit facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement, and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The credit facility is subject to certain financial covenants including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at March31, 2016 and expect continued compliance for the foreseeable future. We believe that we have adequate resources and liquidity to fund future cash requirements and debt repayments with cash generated from operations, existing cash balances and additional short- and long-term borrowing capacity for the next 12 months. We expect cash generated from operations to remain solid throughout the remainder of 2016 due to improved working capital management initiatives and the cost savings generated through our restructuring efforts. Disclosure of Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments There were no material changes in contractual obligations and commercial commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further discussion regarding our commitments and contingencies. 42Item 1. Financial Statements AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 3 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (in thousands) __________________________ (1) Amounts presented net of tax of $(13) and $(6) for the quarters ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $(43) and $(1) for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. (2) Amounts presented net of tax of $(325) and $(14) for the quarters ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $(2,717) and $256 for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 4 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 5 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (Unaudited) (in thousands, except number of shares) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 6 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 7 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1.GENERAL The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Aegion Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Aegion" or the "Company") reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the dates and periods presented. Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected during the remainder of the current year or for any future period. All significant intercompany related accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015, which is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, and the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the requirements of Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X and, consequently, do not include all information or footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements or all the disclosures normally made in an Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, the unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes included in the Company's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29, 2016. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce the Company's exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. As part of management's ongoing assessment of its energy-related businesses, the Company determined that the persistent low price of oil was expected to create market challenges for the foreseeable future, including reduced customer spending in 2016. The Company substantially completed its 2016 Restructuring objectives in the first six months of 2016, including repositioning Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reducing Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sizing Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reducing corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual expenses by approximately $17.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. See Note 3. Infrastructure Solutions Segment ("Infrastructure Solutions") On June 2, 2016, the Company acquired the cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP") contracting operations of Leif M. Jensen A/S ("LMJ"), a Danish company and the Insituform licensee in Denmark since 2011. The purchase price was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million . On May 13, 2016, the Company acquired the operations and territories of Fyfe Europe S.A. and related companies ("Fyfe Europe") for a purchase price of $3.0 million . Fyfe Europe held rights to provide Fibrwrap product engineering and support to installers and applicators of fiber reinforced polymer ("FRP") systems in 72 countries throughout Europe, Middle East and North Africa. The acquisition of these territories now provides the Company with worldwide rights to market, manufacture and install the patented Tyfo Fibrwrap FRP technology for strengthening, repair and restoration of masonry, concrete, steel and wooden infrastructures. On February 18, 2016, the Company acquired Underground Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiary, Underground Solutions Technologies Group, Inc. (collectively, "Underground Solutions"), for a purchase price of $85.0 million plus an additional $5.3 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards. The purchase price is subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and post-closing adjustments to the value of the net operating loss tax asset. The purchase price included $6.3 million held in escrow as security for the post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of Underground Solutions' previous owners. The transaction was funded partially from the Company's cash balances and partially from borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility. To supplement the domestic cash balances, the Company repatriated approximately $30.4 million from foreign subsidiaries to assist in funding the transaction, incurring approximately $3.5 million in additional taxes, a reserve for which was included in the Company's tax provision amounts for 2015. Underground Solutions provides infrastructure technologies for water, sewer and conduit applications. 8 In February 2015, the Company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary, Video Injection - Insituform SAS ("VII"), the Company's French CIPP contracting operation, to certain employees of VII. In connection with the sale, the Company entered into a five -year exclusive tube supply agreement whereby VII will purchase liners from Insituform Linings Limited. VII will also be entitled to continue to use its trade name based on a trade mark license granted for the same five-year time period. The sale resulted in a loss of approximately $2.9 million that was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations during the first quarter of 2015. On October 6, 2014, the Company's board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2014 Restructuring") which included the decision to exit Insituform's contracting markets in France, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore. The Company has substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. See Note 3. Corrosion Protection Segment ("Corrosion Protection") On February 1, 2016, the Company sold its fifty-one percent ( 51% ) interest in its Canadian pipe-coating joint venture, Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), to its joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The sale price was US $9.6 million , which consisted of a US $7.6 million payment at closing and a US $2.0 million promissory note, which was paid on July 28, 2016. BPPC served as the Company's pipe coating and insulation operation in Canada. The sale of its interest in BPPC was part of a broader effort by the Company to reduce its exposure in the North American upstream market in light of its expectations for a prolonged low oil price environment. As a result of the sale, the Company recognized a pre-tax, non-cash charge of approximately $0.6 million at December 31, 2015 to reflect the expected loss on the sale of the business. This loss was derived primarily from the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments and was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. In July 2015, the Company paid $0.7 million to the sellers of CRTS, Inc. ("CRTS") related to contingent consideration achieved during the year ended December 31, 2013. This amount was fully accrued as of June 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. Also, in June 2015, the Company finalized the settlement of escrow claims made pursuant to the CRTS purchase agreement. As a result of the settlement, the Company received proceeds of approximately $1.0 million in July 2015, of which $0.2 million was recorded as an offset to operating expenses and the remaining $0.8 million was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015. Energy Services Segment ("Energy Services") On March 1, 2015, the Company acquired Schultz Mechanical Contractors, Inc. ("Schultz"), a California corporation, for a total purchase price of $7.7 million . Schultz primarily services customers in California and Arizona and is a provider of piping installations, concrete construction and excavation and trenching services to the downstream and upstream oil and gas markets. Purchase Price Accounting During the second quarter of 2016, the Company determined its preliminary accounting for Fyfe Europe and LMJ, and substantially completed its accounting for Underground Solutions, with the exception of final working capital and net operating loss tax asset adjustments. Purchase price accounting related to Schultz was finalized in the first quarter of 2016. As the Company completes its final accounting for the Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe and LMJ acquisitions, future adjustments related to working capital, deferred income taxes and goodwill could occur. The goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Schultz, Fyfe Europe and LMJ acquisitions are deductible for tax purposes; whereas, the goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Underground Solutions acquisition are not deductible for tax purposes. Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Schultz made the following contributions to the Company's revenues and profits (in thousands): _____________________ (1) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 includes inventory step up expense of $2.4 million , recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations, and an allocation of corporate expenses of $1.3 million . (2) The reported net loss for Schultz for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.3 million . (3) The reported net loss for Schultz for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.2 million . 9 _____________________ (1) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions for the six months ended June 30, 2016 includes inventory step up expense of $3.6 million , recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations, and an allocation of corporate expenses of $1.3 million . (2) The reported net loss for Schultz for the six months ended June 30, 2016 includes charges related to the 2016 Restructuring of $0.2 million and an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.3 million . (3) The reported net loss for Schultz for the six months ended June 30, 2015 includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.2 million . The following unaudited pro forma summary presents combined information of the Company as if the Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Schultz acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year preceding their acquisition (in thousands, except earnings (loss) per share): _____________________ (1) Includes pro-forma adjustments for depreciation and amortization associated with acquired tangible and intangible assets, as if those assets were recorded at the beginning of the year preceding the acquisition date. The transaction purchase price to acquire Underground Solutions was $88.7 million , which included: (i) a payment at closing of $85.0 million ; (ii) a payment of $5.3 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards; and (iii) preliminary working capital adjustments of $1.6 million (payable to the Company). The transaction purchase price to acquire Fyfe Europe was $3.0 million , which represented cash consideration paid at closing of $2.8 million plus $0.2 million of deferred contingent consideration. The purchase price to acquire LMJ was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million , which was paid at closing. Total cash consideration recorded to acquire Schultz was $6.7 million , which was funded by the Company's cash reserves. The cash consideration included the purchase price paid at closing of $7.1 million less working capital adjustments of $0.4 million . The total purchase price was $7.7 million , which represented the cash consideration of $6.7 million plus $1.0 million of deferred contingent consideration. During the first quarter of 2016, $0.5 million of the contingent consideration was paid to the previous owners. 10 The following table summarizes the fair value of identified assets and liabilities of the Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Schultz acquisitions at their respective acquisition dates (in thousands): 2.ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenues Revenues include construction, engineering and installation revenues that are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting in the ratio of costs incurred to estimated final costs. Revenues from change orders, extra work and variations in the scope of work are recognized when it is probable that they will result in additional contract revenue and when the amount can be reliably estimated. Contract costs include all direct material and labor costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools and equipment costs. The Company expenses all pre-contract costs in the period these costs are incurred. Since the financial reporting of these contracts depends on estimates, which are assessed continually during the term of these contracts, recognized revenues and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. If material, the effects of any changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. When estimates indicate that a loss will be incurred on a contract, a provision for the expected loss is recorded in the period in which the loss becomes evident. Any revenue recognized is only to the extent costs have been recognized in the period. Additionally, the Company expenses all costs for unpriced change orders in the period in which they are incurred. Revenues from the Company's Energy Services segment are derived mainly from multiple engineering and construction type contracts, as well as maintenance contracts, under multi-year long-term master service agreements and alliance contracts. Businesses within the Company's Energy Services segment enter into customer contracts that contain three principal types of pricing provisions: time and materials, cost plus fixed fee and fixed price. Although the terms of these contracts vary, most are made pursuant to cost reimbursable contracts on a time and materials basis under which revenues are recorded based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. These businesses also perform services on a cost plus fixed fee basis under which revenues are recorded based upon costs incurred at agreed upon rates and a proportionate amount of the fixed fee or percentage stipulated in the contract. 11 Foreign Currency Translation Net foreign exchange transaction losses of $0.5 million and $0.4 million for the quarters ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $1.6 million and $0.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, are included in other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the Company's international subsidiaries, the local currency is generally the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using rates in effect at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The cumulative translation adjustment resulting from changes in exchange rates are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in total stockholders' equity. The Company's accumulated other comprehensive income is comprised of three main components: (i) currency translation; (ii) derivatives; and (iii) gains and losses associated with the Company's defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom. As of June 30, 2016 and 2015 , the Company had accumulated comprehensive income (loss) of $(46.8) million and $(41.0) million , respectively, related to currency translation adjustments; $(7.0) million and $0.1 million , respectively, related to derivative transactions; and $0.6 million and $(0.5) million , respectively, related to pension activity in accumulated other comprehensive income. Taxation The Company provides for estimated income taxes payable or refundable on current year income tax returns as well as the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards, based upon enacted tax laws and tax rates, and in accordance with FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes ("FASB ASC 740"). FASB ASC 740 also requires that a valuation allowance be recorded against any deferred tax assets that are not likely to be realized in the future. Refer to Note 9 for additional information regarding taxes on income. Purchase Price Accounting The Company accounts for its acquisitions in accordance with FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations . The base cash purchase price plus the estimated fair value of any non-cash or contingent consideration given for an acquired business is allocated to the assets acquired (including identified intangible assets) and liabilities assumed based on the estimated fair values of such assets and liabilities. The excess of the total consideration over the aggregate net fair values assigned is recorded as goodwill. Contingent consideration, if any, is recognized as a liability as of the acquisition date with subsequent adjustments recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Indirect and general expenses related to business combinations are expensed as incurred. The Company typically determines the fair value of tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination using independent valuations that rely on management's estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. Key assumptions include cash flow projections, growth rates, asset lives, and discount rates based on an analysis of weighted average cost of capital. Long-Lived Assets Property, plant and equipment and other identified intangibles (primarily customer relationships, patents and acquired technologies, trademarks, licenses and non-compete agreements) are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment, and, except for goodwill and certain trademarks, are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, changes to the Company's business model or changes in the Company's capital strategy can result in the actual useful lives differing from the Company's estimates. If the Company determines that the useful life of its property, plant and equipment or its identified intangible assets should be changed, the Company would depreciate or amortize the net book value in excess of the salvage value over its revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing or decreasing depreciation or amortization expense. Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment tests are based on a comparison of undiscounted cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. The estimate of cash flow is based upon, among other things, assumptions about expected future operating performance. The Company's estimates of undiscounted cash flow may differ from actual cash flow due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to its business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value, the Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. 12 Goodwill Acquisitions treated as a business combination generally result in goodwill related to, among other things, synergies, acquired workforce, growth opportunities and market potential. Under FASB ASC 350, the Company assesses recoverability of goodwill on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. An impairment charge will be recognized to the extent that the implied fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Factors that could potentially trigger an impairment review include (but are not limited to): significant underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected, historical or forecasted operating results; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant changes in the strategy for a segment including extended slowdowns in the reporting unit's market; a decrease in market capitalization below the Company's book value; and a significant change in regulations. Whether during the annual impairment assessment or during a trigger-based impairment review, the Company determines the fair value of its reporting units and compares such fair value to the carrying value of those reporting units to determine if there are any indications of goodwill impairment. Fair value of reporting units is determined using a combination of two valuation methods: a market approach and an income approach with each method given equal weight in determining the fair value assigned to each reporting unit. Absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transaction, the Company believes the use of these two methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit's fair value. Assumptions common to both methods are operating plans and economic outlooks, which are used to forecast future revenues, earnings and after-tax cash flows for each reporting unit. These assumptions are applied consistently for both methods. The market approach estimates fair value by first determining earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") multiples for comparable publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics of the reporting unit. The EBITDA multiples for comparable companies are based upon current enterprise value. The enterprise value is based upon current market capitalization and includes a control premium. The Company believes this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using multiples from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to its reporting units. The income approach is based on forecasted future (debt-free) cash flows that are discounted to present value using factors that consider timing and risk of future cash flows. The Company believes this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting unit's expected long-term operating cash flow performance. Discounted cash flow projections are based on financial forecasts developed from operating plans and economic outlooks, growth rates, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins, terminal value growth rates, future capital expenditures and changes in working capital requirements. Estimates of discounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes to business models, changes in the Company's weighted average cost of capital, or changes in operating performance. The discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows is one of the most significant assumptions utilized under the income approach. The Company determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital ("WACC") for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the pre-tax cost of debt and cost of equity (a major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on twenty year U.S. Treasury bonds). As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including market-based factors, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs are adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company-specific risks associated with each reporting unit. Investments in Affiliated Companies Investments in entities in which the Company does not have control or is not the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, and for which the Company has 20% to 50% ownership or has the ability to exert significant influence, have historically been accounted for by the equity method. At June 30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , the Company did not own any investments in affiliated companies. Investments in Variable Interest Entities The Company evaluates all transactions and relationships with variable interest entities ("VIE") to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entities in accordance with FASB ASC 810, Consolidation. 13 The Company's overall methodology for evaluating transactions and relationships under the VIE requirements includes the following two steps: determine whether the entity meets the criteria to qualify as a VIE; and determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. In performing the first step, the significant factors and judgments that the Company considers in making the determination as to whether an entity is a VIE include: the design of the entity, including the nature of its risks and the purpose for which the entity was created, to determine the variability that the entity was designed to create and distribute to its interest holders; the nature of the Company's involvement with the entity; whether control of the entity may be achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting equity; whether there is sufficient equity investment at risk to finance the activities of the entity; and whether parties other than the equity holders have the obligation to absorb expected losses or the right to receive residual returns. If the Company identifies a VIE based on the above considerations, it then performs the second step and evaluates whether it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE by considering the following significant factors and judgments: whether the entity has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance; and whether the entity has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. Based on its evaluation of the above factors and judgments, as of June 30, 2016 , the Company consolidated any VIEs in which it was the primary beneficiary. Financial data for consolidated variable interest entities are summarized in the following table (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Amounts exclude the assets and liabilities of BPPC, which was sold in February 2016. (2) Amounts include $21.1 million of current assets and $7.0 million of current liabilities of BPPC, which were classified as held for sale. See Note 5. __________________________ (1) Includes the results of BPPC through the date of its sale in February 2016. Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment awards to employees, including the accounting for income taxes, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires lessees to present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including 14 interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations. In November 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, to be presented as non-current within the Consolidated Balance Sheet. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, but early adoption is permitted. The Company currently reports both current and non-current deferred tax assets and liabilities; however, adoption of the guidance is not expected to have a material impact on its presentation of financial condition. In September 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires acquirers in a business combination to recognize measurement period adjustments in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This is a change from the previous requirement that the adjustments be recorded retrospectively. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued guidance that requires management to assess the Company's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related disclosures in certain circumstances. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's presentation of its consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance that supersedes revenue recognition requirements regarding contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or for the transfer of non-financial assets. Under the new guidance, entities are required to recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis to be performed on transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. This new guidance is effective retroactively in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations. 3.RESTRUCTURING 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Restructuring to reduce its exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. The Company substantially completed its 2016 Restructuring objectives in the first six months of 2016, including repositioning Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reducing Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sizing Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively, and reducing corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual expenses by approximately $17.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. The Company's previous savings estimate was between $15.0 million and $16.0 million . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, the Company expects to reduce headcount by approximately 950 employees, or 15.3% , of the Company's total workforce as of December 31, 2015. Headcount reductions associated with the 2016 Restructuring totaled 930 as of June 30, 2016. In connection with the 2016 Restructuring, the Company expects to record total estimated pre-tax charges, most of which are cash charges, of approximately $15.0 million , which is an increase from the previous estimate of between $11.0 million to $13.0 million . The increased cost estimate is primarily the result of longer wind-down efforts associated with downsizing the Company's upstream operations in Energy Services. These charges consist primarily of employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs, early lease termination and other restructuring costs. Total pre-tax restructuring charges during the first six months of 2016 were $13.5 million ( $9.1 million after tax) and consisted primarily of cash charges. These charges included employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs associated with the restructuring efforts described above. Estimated remaining costs to be incurred for the 2016 Restructuring are approximately $1.5 million and are expected to be incurred in the second half of 2016. The estimated remaining costs consist primarily of cash charges related to office closures, employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs mainly within Energy Services. 15 During the quarter and six months ended June30, 2016 , the Company recorded pre-tax expense related to the 2016 Restructuring as follows (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Primarily includes charges in Energy Services related to the downsizing of the Company's upstream operations in California. (2) Includes $0.2 million of corporate-related restructuring charges that have been allocated to the reportable segments. __________________________ (1) Primarily includes charges in Energy Services related to the downsizing of the Company's upstream operations in California. (2) Includes $1.2 million of corporate-related restructuring charges that have been allocated to the reportable segments. 2016 Restructuring costs related to severance, other termination benefit costs and early lease termination costs for the quarter and six months ended June30, 2016 were $1.5 million and $8.3 million , respectively, and are reported, along with similar charges for the 2014 Restructuring, on a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . The following tables summarize all charges related to the 2016 Restructuring recognized in the quarter and six months ended June30, 2016 as presented in their affected line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Cash charges consist of charges incurred during the period that will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. (2) All charges for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016 relate to Corrosion Protection. (3) Includes charges of $0.4 million and $0.6 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Infrastructure Solutions. Includes charges of $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Corrosion Protection. Includes charges of $1.5 million and $3.9 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Energy Services. (4) Includes charges of $0.6 million and $2.5 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Infrastructure Solutions. Includes charges of $0.8 million and $3.2 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, 16 respectively, related to Corrosion Protection. Includes charges of $0.1 million and $2.5 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Energy Services. (5) All charges relate to the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments in Infrastructure Solutions. The following tables summarize the 2016 Restructuring activity during the first six months of 2016 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges during the first six months of 2016. 2014 Restructuring On October 6, 2014, the Company's board of directors approved the 2014 Restructuring to improve gross margins and profitability over the long term by exiting low-return businesses and reducing the size and cost of the Company's overhead structure. The 2014 Restructuring generated annual operating cost savings of approximately $10.8 million , which was in-line with the Company's initial estimate, and consisted of approximately $8.4 million and $2.4 million of recognized savings within Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection, respectively. The Company achieved these cost savings by (i) exiting certain unprofitable international locations for the Company's Insituform business and consolidating the Company's worldwide Fyfe business with the Company's global Insituform business, all of which is in Infrastructure Solutions; and (ii) eliminating certain idle facilities in the Company's Bayou pipe coating operation in Louisiana, which is in Corrosion Protection. The Company has substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. Headcount reductions associated with the 2014 Restructuring totaled 86 as of June30, 2016 . Remaining headcount reductions and cash costs related to the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material. Total pre-tax 2014 Restructuring charges since inception were $60.4 million ( $44.8 million after tax) and consisted of non-cash charges totaling $48.3 million and cash charges totaling $12.1 million . The non-cash charges of $48.3 million included (i) $22.2 million related to the impairment of certain long-lived assets and definite-lived intangible assets for Bayou's pipe coating operation in Louisiana; and (ii) $26.1 million related to impairment of definite-lived intangible assets, allowances for accounts receivable, write-off of certain other current assets and long-lived assets, inventory obsolescence, as well as losses related to the sales of the Company's CIPP contracting operations in France and Switzerland, which are reported in Infrastructure Solutions. Cash charges totaling $12.1 million included employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other costs associated with the restructuring of Insituform's European and Asia-Pacific operations and Fyfe's worldwide business. While estimated remaining cash costs to be incurred in 2016 for the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material, the Company expects to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the disposal of certain entities as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. All such charges will be recognized in Infrastructure Solutions. 17 During the quarters ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , the Company recorded pre-tax (income) expense related to the 2014 Restructuring as follows (in thousands): __________________________ (1) The quarter and six months ended June 30, 2015 include charges related to the write-off of certain other assets, including the loss on the sale of the CIPP contracting operation in France in February 2015, including the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments, professional fees and certain other restructuring charges. (2) All charges for the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 relate to Infrastructure Solutions. 2014 Restructuring costs related to severance, other termination benefit costs and early lease termination costs for the quarters ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were zero and $0.2 million , respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were $0.1 million and $0.9 million , respectively, and are reported, along with similar charges for the 2016 Restructuring, on a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . The following tables summarize all charges related to the 2014 Restructuring recognized in the quarters and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 as presented in their affected line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Cash charges consist of charges incurred during the period that will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. (2) All charges relate to Infrastructure Solutions. __________________________ (1) Cash charges consist of charges incurred during the period that will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. 18 (2) Charges in the six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily include the loss on sale of the CIPP contracting operation in France in February 2015, including the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments. (3) All charges relate to Infrastructure Solutions. The following tables summarize the 2014 Restructuring activity during the first six months of 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges, either those reserved at December 31, 2015 or charged to income during the first six months of 2016. __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges, either those reserved at December 31, 2014 or charged to income during the first six months of 2015. 4.SHARE INFORMATION Earnings per share have been calculated using the following share information: The Company excluded 435,722 stock options and restricted and deferred stock units for the six months ended June30, 2016 from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the Company's common stock because of the reported net loss for the period. The Company excluded 160,191 and 164,014 stock options for the quarters ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and 160,191 and 286,251 stock options for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, from the diluted earnings per share calculations for the Company's common stock because they were anti-dilutive as their exercise prices were greater than the average market price of common shares for each period. 19 5.ASSETS HELD FOR SALE On December 31, 2015, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its 51% interest in BPPC, a pipe coatings company in Western Canada, to its joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The transaction closed effective February 1, 2016. BPPC was classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2015. See Note 1 for further discussion of this sale. The following table provides the components of assets and liabilities held for sale (in thousands): 6.GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's goodwill at January 1, 2016 and June30, 2016 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first six months of 2016, the Company recorded goodwill of $43.8 million , $2.4 million and $0.7 million related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe and LMJ, respectively (see Note 1). 20 Identified Intangible Assets Identified intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first six months of 2016, the Company recorded license agreements of $0.6 million related to the acquisition of LMJ's CIPP business (see Note 1). (2) During the first six months of 2016, the Company recorded trademarks of $1.5 million and $0.1 million related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions and Fyfe Europe, respectively (see Note 1). (3) During the first six months of 2016, the Company recorded non-compete agreements of $0.1 million related to the acquisition of Fyfe Europe (see Note 1). (4) During the first six months of 2016, the Company recorded customer relationships of $19.7 million , $0.3 million and $0.2 million related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe and LMJ's CIPP business, respectively (see Note 1). (5) During the first six months of 2016, the Company recorded acquired technology of $12.5 million related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions (see Note 1). Amortization expense was $4.2 million and $3.2 million for the quarters ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. and $8.0 million and $6.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Estimated amortization expense by year is as follows (in thousands): 7.LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITY Financing Arrangements Long-term debt, term note and notes payable consisted of the following (in thousands): 21 In October 2015, the Company entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of banks. Bank of America, N.A. served as the sole administrative agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association acted as co-syndication agents. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Securities LLC and U.S. Bank National Association acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers in the syndication of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility consists of a $300.0 million five -year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five -year term loan facility. The Company drew the entire term loan from the Credit Facility to (i) retire $344.7 million in indebtedness outstanding under the Company's prior credit facility; (ii) fund expenses associated with the Credit Facility; and (iii) for general corporate purposes. Generally, interest is charged on the principal amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus an applicable rate ranging from 1.25% to 2.25% depending on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The Company can also opt for an interest rate equal to a base rate (as defined in the credit documents) plus an applicable rate, which also is based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable LIBOR borrowing rate (LIBOR plus Company's applicable rate) as of June30, 2016 was approximately 3.25% . The Company's indebtedness at June30, 2016 consisted of $336.9 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the Credit Facility and $36.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. During 2016, the Company (i) borrowed $30.0 million on the line of credit to help fund the acquisition of Underground Solutions; (ii) borrowed $3.0 million on the line of credit to help fund a small acquisition; and (iii) had net borrowings of $3.0 million on the line of credit for international working capital needs. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.2 million of third-party notes and bank debt at June30, 2016 . Beginning in the first six months of 2016, FASB ASC 835-30, Interest Imputation of Interest ("FASB ASC 835-30") requires a change in the balance sheet presentation of debt issuance costs to be a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability instead of a deferred charge as previously reported. As such, the Company has presented unamortized loan costs of $3.9 million and $4.3 million at June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, as a reduction to long-term debt on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. Comparable periods have been retrospectively adjusted in accordance with FASB ASC 835-30. As of June30, 2016 , the Company had $28.9 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the Credit Facility. Of such amount, $16.6 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $12.3 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. The Company's indebtedness at December31, 2015 consisted of $345.6 million outstanding from the term loan under the Credit Facility and zero on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint ventures (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.1 million of third-party notes and bank debt at December31, 2015 . Further, the Company had $1.9 million in debt listed as held for sale at December31, 2015 related to the sale of BPPC (see Note 5). At June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt was approximately $376.4 million and $349.1 million , respectively. Fair value was estimated using market rates for debt of similar risk and maturity and a discounted cash flow model, which are based on Level 3 inputs as defined in Note 12. In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrors the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount. The annualized borrowing rate of the swap at June30, 2016 was 3.46% . The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement, and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. See Note 12. The Credit Facility is subject to certain financial covenants, including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. Subject to the specifically defined terms and methods of calculation as set forth in the Credit Facility's credit agreement, the financial covenant requirements, as of each quarterly reporting period end, are defined as follows: Consolidated financial leverage ratio compares consolidated funded indebtedness to Credit Facility defined income. The initial maximum amount was not to initially exceed 3.75 to 1.00. In connection with the acquisition of Underground Solutions, the Company executed a one-time election, in accordance with the Credit Agreement, to 22 increase the consolidated financial leverage ratio to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of one year. After which, the ratio will decrease periodically at scheduled reporting periods to not more than 3.75 to 1.00 beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2017. At June30, 2016 , the Company's consolidated financial leverage ratio was 3.39 to 1.00 and, using the Credit Facility defined income, the Company had the capacity to borrow up to $70.1 million of additional debt. Consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio compares Credit Facility defined income to Credit Facility defined fixed charges with a minimum permitted ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00. At June30, 2016 , the Company's fixed charge ratio was 1.58 to 1.00. At June30, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt and financial covenants as required under the Credit Facility. 8.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND EQUITY COMPENSATION Share Repurchase Plan In November 2015, and in connection with the terms of the amended Credit Facility, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $20.0 million of the Company's common stock to be made during 2015 and 2016. In March 2016, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to an additional $20.0 million of the Company's common stock during 2016 following the expiration of the November 2015 program. The Company began repurchasing shares under this new program in April 2016 immediately following completion of the November 2015 program. In addition to the above, the Company has authorization under the Credit Facility to repurchase up to an additional $20.0 million of the Company's common stock during 2016. Once repurchased, the Company promptly retires such shares. The Company is also authorized to utilize up to $10.0 million in cash to purchase shares of the Company's common stock in each calendar year in connection with the Company's equity compensation programs for employees. The participants in the Company's equity plans may surrender shares of common stock in satisfaction of tax obligations arising from the vesting of restricted stock awards under such plans and in connection with the exercise of stock option awards. The deemed price paid is the closing price of the Company's common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date that the restricted stock vests or the shares of the Company's common stock are surrendered in exchange for stock option exercises. The option holder may elect a "net, net" exercise in connection with the exercise of employee stock options such that the option holder receives a number of shares equal to (i) the built-in gain in the option shares divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise, less (ii) a number of shares equal to the taxes due upon the exercise of the option divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise. The shares of Company common stock surrendered to the Company for taxes due on the exercise of the option are deemed repurchased by the Company. During the six months ended June30, 2016 , the Company acquired 1,310,959 shares of the Company's common stock for $24.1 million ( $18.41 average price per share) through the open market repurchase programs discussed above and 54,290 shares of the Company's common stock for $1.1 million ( $19.62 average price per share) in connection with the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and the exercise of stock options. Once repurchased, the Company promptly retired all such shares. Equity-Based Compensation Plans In April 2016, the Company's stockholders approved the 2016 Employee Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Employee Plan"), which replaced the 2013 Employee Equity Incentive Plan. The 2016 Employee Plan provides for equity-based compensation awards, including restricted shares of common stock, performance awards, stock options, stock units and stock appreciation rights. The 2016 Employee Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which determines eligibility, timing, pricing, amount and other terms or conditions of awards. There are 1,132,739 shares of the Company's common stock registered for issuance under the 2016 Employee Plan and, at June30, 2016 , 1,110,993 shares of common stock were available for issuance. In April 2016, the Company's stockholders also approved the 2016 Director Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Director Plan"), which replaced the 2011 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan. The 2016 Director Plan provides for equity-based compensation awards, including non-qualified stock options and stock units. The Board of Directors administers the 2016 Director Plan and has the authority to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations related to the 2016 Director Plan. There are 166,456 shares of the Company's common stock registered for issuance under the 2016 Director Plan and, at June30, 2016 , 166,456 shares of common stock were available for issuance. 23 Stock Awards Stock awards, which include shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted performance units, are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock award compensation is recorded based on the award date fair value and charged to expense ratably through the requisite service period. The forfeiture of unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted performance units causes the reversal of all previous expense recorded as a reduction of current period expense. A summary of the stock award activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock awards was $2.4 million and $2.0 million for the quarters ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $4.7 million and $3.5 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Unrecognized pre-tax expense of $17.5 million related to stock awards is expected to be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of 2.10 years for awards outstanding at June30, 2016 . Deferred Stock Unit Awards Deferred stock units are generally awarded to directors of the Company and represent the Company's obligation to transfer one share of the Company's common stock to the grantee at a future date and are generally fully vested on the date of grant. The expense related to the issuance of deferred stock units is recorded as of the date of the award. A summary of deferred stock unit activity is as follows: Expense associated with awards of deferred stock units was $0.9 million and $0.9 million for the quarters and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Stock Options Stock options on the Company's common stock are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock options granted generally have a term of seven to ten years and an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. 24 A summary of stock option activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock option grants was zero and $0.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. There was no unrecognized pre-tax expense related to stock option grants at June30, 2016 . Financial data for stock option exercises are summarized as follows (in thousands): The intrinsic value calculations are based on the Company's closing stock price of $19.51 and $18.94 on June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The Company uses a binomial option-pricing model for valuation purposes to reflect the features of stock options granted. Volatility, expected term and dividend yield assumptions are based on the Company's historical experience. The risk-free rate is based on a U.S. treasury note with a maturity similar to the option grant's expected term. There were no stock options awarded during 2016 or 2015 . 9.TAXES ON INCOME The Company's effective tax rate in the quarter and six-month period ended June30, 2016 was 22.8% and a benefit of 83.4% on a pre-tax loss, respectively. These effective rates were favorably impacted by a higher mix of earnings towards foreign jurisdictions, which generally have lower statutory tax rates, and the impact of certain discrete tax items relating to the 2016 Restructuring. The effective tax rate for the first six months of 2016 was also favorably impacted by a $1.9 million benefit related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. For the quarter and six-month period ended June30, 2015 , the Company's effective tax rate was 28.6% and 34.6% , respectively. The high effective tax rate on pre-tax income was unfavorably impacted by a relatively small income tax benefit recorded on pre-tax charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and the impact of discrete tax items that were related to non-deductible restructuring charges. In addition, the rate was negatively influenced by recording no tax benefit on losses in jurisdictions where valuation allowances were recorded against deferred tax assets. 10.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Litigation The Company is involved in certain litigation incidental to the conduct of its business and affairs. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not believe that the outcome of any such litigation, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 25 Contingencies In February 2016, the Company entered into a conditional agreement to settle an outstanding project dispute with a client in Infrastructure Solutions. As a result of the conditional settlement, the Company recorded a $2.7 million accrual as of December 31, 2015 in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic No. 450-20, Contingencies - Loss Contingencies ("FASB ASC 450-20"). In March 2016, the Company entered into the final agreement and wrote off a $7.5 million customer receivable, along with the related allowance for doubtful account, as of March 31, 2016. The settlement amount was paid in April 2016. In connection with the Brinderson acquisition, certain pre-acquisition matters were identified in 2014 whereby a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. The Company establishes liabilities in accordance with FASB ASC 450-20, and accordingly, recorded an accrual related to various legal, tax, employee benefit and employment matters. At December 31, 2015, the accrual related to these matters was $10.5 million . During the second quarter of 2016, the Company made payments totaling $0.4 million related to one of the above matters. Also during the second quarter of 2016, and based upon developments during the quarter and following consultation with internal and third-party legal counsel, the Company reassessed its reserve related to certain remaining matters and lowered its accrual for such matters by $1.8 million . The accrual adjustment resulted in an offset to "Operating expense" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of June30, 2016 , the remaining accrual relating to these matters was $8.3 million and represented the Company's reasonable estimate of probable loss related to the Brinderson pre-acquisition matters. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses against certain of these remaining matters. Purchase Commitments The Company had no material purchase commitments at June30, 2016 . Guarantees The Company has many contracts that require the Company to indemnify the other party against loss from claims, including claims of patent or trademark infringement or other third party claims for injuries, damages or losses. The Company has agreed to indemnify its surety against losses from third-party claims of subcontractors. The Company has not previously experienced material losses under these provisions and, while there can be no assurances, currently does not anticipate any future material adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company regularly reviews its exposure under all its engagements, including performance guarantees by contractual joint ventures and indemnification of its surety. As a result of the most recent review, the Company has determined that the risk of material loss is remote under these arrangements and has not recorded a liability for these risks at June30, 2016 on its consolidated balance sheet. 11.SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has three operating segments, which are also its reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions; Corrosion Protection; and Energy Services. The Company's operating segments correspond to its management organizational structure. Each operating segment has a president who reports to the Company's chief executive officer, who is also the chief operating decision manager ("CODM"). The operating results and financial information reported by each of the segments are evaluated separately, regularly reviewed and used by the CODM to evaluate segment performance, allocate resources and determine management incentive compensation. The following disaggregated financial results have been prepared using a management approach that is consistent with the basis and manner with which management internally disaggregates financial information for the purpose of making internal operating decisions. The Company evaluates performance based on stand-alone operating income (loss). 26 Financial information by segment was as follows (in thousands): _______________________ (1) Results include: (i) $3.8 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.1 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (iii) $0.7 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $2.4 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. (2) Results include $5.7 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). (3) Results include: (i) $13.5 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.1 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals (see Note 3); (iii) $1.7 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $3.6 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. (4) Results include: (i) $9.2 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); and (ii) $0.3 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Schultz and other acquisition targets. (5) Operating income for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 includes: (i) $1.0 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.1 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (iii) $0.7 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $2.4 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. Operating income for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 includes $5.7 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating income for the six months ended June 30, 2016 includes: (i) $3.1 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.1 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals (see Note 3); (iii) $1.7 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $3.6 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. Operating income for the six months ended June 30, 2015 includes $6.5 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). (6) Operating loss for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 includes $1.0 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating loss for the six months ended June 30, 2016 includes $3.7 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). (7) Operating loss for the quarter ended June 30, 2016 includes $1.6 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating loss for the six months ended June 30, 2016 includes $6.4 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating income for the six months ended June 30, 2015 includes $0.3 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Schultz and other acquisition targets. 27 The following table summarizes revenues, gross profit and operating income by geographic region (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Revenues are attributed to the country of origin for the Company's legal entities. For a significant majority of its legal entities, the country of origin relates to the country or geographic area that it services. 12.DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As a matter of policy, the Company uses derivatives for risk management purposes, and does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. From time to time, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency cash flow transactions. For cash flow hedges, a gain or loss is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations upon settlement of the hedge. All of the Company's hedges that are designated as hedges for accounting purposes were highly effective; therefore, no notable amounts of hedge ineffectiveness were recorded in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the outstanding hedged balance. During each of the quarters ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , the Company recorded less than $0.1 million as a gain on the consolidated statements of operations in the other income (expense) line item upon settlement of the cash flow hedges. At June30, 2016 , the Company recorded a net deferred loss of $7.0 million related to the cash flow hedges in accrued expenses and other comprehensive income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and on the foreign currency translation adjustment and derivative transactions line of the Consolidated Statements of Equity. The Company presents derivative instruments in the consolidated financial statements on a gross basis. The gross and net difference of derivative instruments are considered to be immaterial to the financial position presented in the financial statements. The Company engages in regular inter-company trade activities and receives royalty payments from its wholly-owned Canadian entities, paid in Canadian dollars, rather than the Company's functional currency, U.S. dollars. The Company utilizes foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the currency risk associated with the anticipated future payments from its Canadian entities. In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrored the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated by amortizing the $262.5 million same notional amount. The annualized borrowing rate of the swap at June30, 2016 was 3.46% . The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based 28 payment offset a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The following table provides a summary of the fair value amounts of our derivative instruments, all of which are Level 2 inputs as defined below (in thousands): FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements ("FASB ASC 820"), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements for interim and annual reporting periods. The guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1 defined as quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments; Level 2 defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3 defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. In accordance with FASB ASC 820, the Company determined that the instruments summarized below are derived from significant observable inputs, referred to as Level 2 inputs. The following tables represent assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and the basis for that measurement at June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (in thousands): 29 The following table summarizes the Company's derivative positions at June30, 2016 : The Company had no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 inputs during the quarter ended June30, 2016 . Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods could affect the fair value estimates; however, the Company does not believe any such changes would have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value, which are based on Level 2 inputs as previously defined. 13.SUBSEQUENT EVENT On July 1, 2016, the Company acquired Concrete Solutions Limited ("CSL") and Building Chemical Supplies Limited ("BCS"), two New Zealand-based companies, for a purchase price of NZD 7.2 million , approximately $5.0 million . The purchase price is subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and included NZD 0.5 million held in escrow as security for post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of the previous owners. The sellers have the ability earn up to an additional NZD 2.0 million , approximately $1.4 million , of proceeds based on reaching certain performance targets in 2016, 2017 and 2018. The transaction was funded from the Company's cash balances. CSL provides structural strengthening, concrete repair and bridge jointing solutions primarily through application of FRP and injection resins and had served as a Fiberwrap certified applicator in New Zealand for a number of years. BCS imports and distributes materials, including fiber reinforced polymer, injection resins, repair mortars and protective coatings . Both CSL and BCS are part of the Company's Infrastructure Solutions reportable segment. Given the timing of the acquisition, it was impracticable for the Company to complete a preliminary purchase price allocation. 30 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is management's discussion and analysis of certain significant factors that have affected our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods included in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . We believe that certain accounting policies could potentially have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements, either because of the significance of the consolidated financial statements to which they relate or because they involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. A summary of such critical accounting policies can be found in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . Forward-Looking Information The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. We make forward-looking statements in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and on management's beliefs, assumptions, estimates and projections and are not guarantees of future events or results. When used in this report, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "plan," "intend," "may," "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred to in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29, 2016, and in our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, including this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed may not occur. In addition, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, suggested or projected. Except as required by law, we do not assume a duty to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, review additional disclosures made by us from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please use caution and do not place reliance on forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements. Executive Summary Aegion combines innovative technologies with market leading expertise to maintain, rehabilitate, and strengthen infrastructure around the world. Since 1971, we have played a pioneering role in finding transformational solutions to rehabilitate aging infrastructure including pipelines in the wastewater, water, energy and mining industries; buildings, bridges and other structures; as well as maintain the efficient operation of refineries and other industrial facilities. We are committed to Stronger. Safer. Infrastructure . Our products and services are currently utilized and performed in approximately 80 countries across six continents. We believe the depth and breadth of our products and services platform make us a leading provider for the world's infrastructure rehabilitation and protection needs. Strategic Initiatives Aegion is committed to being a valued partner to our customers. We are focused on expanding those relationships by improving execution while also developing or acquiring innovative technologies and comprehensive services to enhance our capabilities to help customers solve complex infrastructure problems. We are pursuing three strategic initiatives: We seek to create a diverse portfolio of near trenchless installed technologies to rehabilitate aging and damaged pipelines under pressure, primarily potable water, through both internal development and acquisitions. On February 18, 2016, we acquired Underground Solutions, Inc., adding its patented Fusible PVC pipe technology to our portfolio, which includes Insituform cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP"), Tyfo Fibrwrap fiber-reinforce polymer and Tite Liner high density polyethylene liner. We are also pursuing R&D efforts to improve existing CIPP rehabilitation products and develop new technologies specifically for the small diameter portion of the pipeline rehabilitation market. Our enhanced portfolio of technologies gives us a sizeable presence in a highly fragmented North American market, with an addressable market of over $1 billion. In addition, we are committed to maintaining our market leadership position in the rehabilitation of wastewater pipelines in North America using our CIPP technology, the largest source of Aegion's consolidated revenues, through efforts to improve productivity and enhance our go-to-market capabilities. Our customers require more accurate assessment and management of their infrastructure assets, especially in the midstream pipeline market to comply with growing industry and regulatory requirements to improve pipeline safety 31 and environmental protection. We are investing to create an asset integrity program designed to increase the efficiency and accuracy of the collection of pipeline corrosion assessment data and upgrade how we share this valuable information with customers. This includes the use of geospatial mapping software and data management systems to interface with large customer database systems and an internal database repository to help other customers with their integrity management systems. The ability to automate data gathering, storage and visualization of the content we provide will improve our efficiency in operations and standardize proposals, processes and reporting format. We seek to add new services in the areas of data validation, advanced analytics, predictive maintenance and improve customer regulatory compliance. We have long term relationships with refinery and industrial customers on the United States West Coast. Our objective is to leverage those relationships to increase shutdown ("turnaround") maintenance activity. We are preparing for the eventual transition of current and new refinery maintenance service contracts from non-union to the building trade union in compliance with California statutory mandates. We are also committed to improve operating efficiencies in managing a large work force of highly-skilled labor. Aegion is committed to improving as a company, for the benefit or our customers, employees and stockholders, and charting the right course for future growth. In 2015, we formalized a set of core values across the company to guide us toward our mission to keep infrastructure working better, safer and longer for customers throughout the world. We have five core values: Zero safety incidents are possible. Do what's right. We Solve Problems. Results Matter. Be Better. In 2016, we introduced The Aegion Way, an initiative founded on the proven LEAN principles of continuous improvement, which utilizes the scientific method and individual accountability to continuously eliminate waste, errors, redundancies and inefficiencies. The Aegion Way guides our employees on how to live the values, especially our efforts to be better and solve problems. Our Segments We have three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions, Corrosion Protection and Energy Services. Our operating segments correspond to our management organizational structure. Each operating segment has leadership that reports to our chief executive officer, who is also the chief operating decision manager ("CODM"). The operating results and financial information reported by each of the segments are evaluated separately, reviewed regularly and used by the CODM to evaluate segment performance, allocate resources and determine management incentive compensation. Infrastructure Solutions Aging infrastructure will require increasing rehabilitation and strengthening over the long term. The majority of our work is performed in the municipal sector and while the pace of growth is primarily driven by government funding, the overall market needs result in a long-term stable growth opportunity for our market leading product brands, Insituform CIPP, Tyfo Fibrwrap and Fusible PVC . We optimize our municipal rehabilitation and commercial infrastructure operations by: (i) focusing on sales and operational excellence; (ii) adding new, innovative technologies and services through licensing or selective acquisitions; (iii) enhancing returns through product manufacturing and increased third-party product sales; and (iv) addressing the pipeline rehabilitation needs in international markets with alternative business models, including licensing and product sales. Corrosion Protection Investment in North America's pipeline infrastructure is required to transport product from onshore and offshore oil and gas fields to its proper end markets. Corrosion Protection has a broad portfolio of technologies and services to protect and monitor pipelines from the effects of corrosion, including cathodic protection, interior pipe linings, interior and exterior pipe coatings and insulation as well as an increasing offering of inspection and repair capabilities. We provide solutions to customers to enhance the safety, environmental integrity, reliability and compliance of their pipelines in the oil and gas market. Energy Services With the continued development of conventional oil and gas reserves, North America will likely have competitive prices for refinery and petrochemical feedstocks. Energy Services offers a unique value proposition based on its world class safety and labor productivity programs, which allow us to provide cost effective maintenance, turnaround and construction services at our customers' refineries and petrochemical facilities. 32 Business Outlook For the remainder of 2016, we anticipate favorable and stable end markets across a majority of our business, which includes the municipal water and wastewater and commercial infrastructure markets, served by Infrastructure Solutions, the domestic midstream pipeline market, served by Corrosion protection, and the United States West Coast downstream refining market, served by Energy Services. Infrastructure Solutions remains focused on maintaining its leadership position by improving execution with our crew-based installation methods as well as improving the quality and lowering the costs to produce our manufactured products used to rehabilitate aging and damaged water and wastewater pipelines globally, but in particular in the North American market. The acquisition of Underground Solutions in February 2016 represents a strategic step to expand in the growing North America trenchless pressure pipe rehabilitation market. Underground Solutions' contributions in 2016 are expected to be accretive to earnings per share and remains on track to meet this objective. We expect these favorable market conditions to result in modest, or low single digit, revenue and profit growth in 2016, including the contributions from Underground Solutions, but excluding the restructuring costs for the Infrastructure Solutions segment. We anticipate continued challenging upstream energy market conditions as a result of the persistent low oil price environment. In January 2016, we took actions to reduce our exposure in high-cost oil extraction regions in Canada and Central California. As a result of actions by our customers and our own decisions, we expect an approximate $100 million reduction in annual revenues in those two regions. These actions reduced our upstream exposure to between 5% to 10% of expected total 2016 revenues from 15% to 20% in 2014. We also announced a restructuring plan to reduce annual costs across the entire organization in 2016 by approximately $17.0 million , primarily to preserve margins in the Energy Services segment and right-size the Corrosion Protection segment to better compete in the energy markets. The Corrosion Protection segment is experiencing a more severe impact from these market conditions in 2016 than in 2015 due to reduced market activity, an increase in project timing variability and price competition. We expect the midstream pipeline market to maintain investment in the United States, while the Canadian energy market overall is experiencing added market pressure in 2016. A large offshore, deep-water, pipe coating and insulation project, with a multi-year contract value of more than $130 million, is expected to begin full production in the fourth quarter of 2016 and has the potential to dampen the effects of softer market conditions expected in 2016. Financial performance for the segment is likely to be short of 2015 operating results due to weakness in Canada, made worse by the wild fires in Western Canada during the second quarter of 2016, and the difficult market conditions in the upstream portion of the energy markets. The Energy Services segment will rely more on the downstream business as a result of actions taken to reduce Aegion Energy Services' upstream exposure. Market conditions indicate another favorable year for refinery maintenance and other facility services on the United States West Coast, including a new five-year contract award with a refining customer in the Pacific Northwest. We benefited in 2015 from certain one-time events that increased billable maintenance hours and anticipate fewer turnaround projects from our customers in 2016. We have had a very challenging first half of 2016 as more time was needed to downsize the upstream operations and we realized additional cost overruns on discreet lump sum projects, which significantly decreased profitability. The restructuring efforts are largely complete as of the end of the second quarter of 2016 and we believe the losses on certain lump sum projects are behind us. As such, we now expect to return to more normalized operating results for the remainder of 2016. For the full fiscal year, we expect revenues to be approximately $250 million. We have applied the process improvement methods from The Aegion Way to further improve efficiencies and reduce unnecessary costs. We expect the operating margin percentage over the course of the second half of 2016 to be more closely in line with full year results in 2015. The favorable market conditions for a majority of our business and the proactive strategic actions we have taken, including the cost reduction initiatives, give us the opportunity for reasonable stability in the challenging energy market environment we expect to persist in 2016. Due to challenges experienced in the first half of 2016, along with the effects of certain project delays over the course of 2016, we anticipate results below that of 2015. Results in the second half of 2016 should be much improved over the first half of 2016 due to: (i) seasonality in the business; (ii) solid backlog positions in North America wastewater CIPP and U.S. cathodic protection services; and (iii) the fourth quarter startup of the large deep-water, pipe coating and insulation project. Longer-term, we believe our diversified portfolio of technologies and services can deliver sustainable growth. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures Acquisitions/Divestitures LMJ On June 2, 2016, we acquired the CIPP contracting operations of Leif M. Jensen A/S ("LMJ"), a Danish company and the Insituform licensee in Denmark since 2011. The purchase price was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million . LMJ is part of our Infrastructure Solutions reportable segment . Fyfe Europe On May 13, 2016, we acquired the operations and territories of Fyfe Europe S.A. and related companies ("Fyfe Europe") for a purchase price of $3.0 million . Fyfe Europe held rights to provide Fibrwrap product engineering and 33 support to installers and applicators of fiber reinforced polymer systems in 72 countries throughout Europe, Middle East and North Africa. Fyfe Europe is part of our Infrastructure Solutions reportable segment . The acquisition of these territories now provides us with worldwide rights to market, manufacture and install the patented Tyfo Fibrwrap FRP technology for strengthening, repair and restoration of masonry, concrete, steel and wooden infrastructures. Underground Solutions On February 18, 2016, we acquired Underground Solutions for a purchase price of $85.0 million plus an additional $5.3 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards. These amounts are subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and post-closing adjustments to the value of the net operating loss tax asset. The purchase price included $6.3 million held in escrow as security for the post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of Underground Solutions' previous owners. The transaction was funded partially from our cash balances and partially from borrowings under our revolving credit facility. To supplement the domestic cash balances, we repatriated $30.4 million from foreign subsidiaries to the United States to assist in funding the transaction, incurring approximately $3.5 million in additional taxes, a reserve for which was included in our tax provision amounts for 2015. Underground Solutions provides infrastructure technologies for water, sewer and conduit applications and is part of our Infrastructure Solutions reportable segment. BPPC On February 1, 2016, we sold our fifty-one percent (51%) interest in our Canadian coating joint venture, Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), to our joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The sale price was US $9.6 million, which consisted of a US $7.6 million payment at closing and a US $2.0 million promissory note, which was paid on July 28, 2016. BPPC served as our pipe coating and insulation operation in Canada and was part of our Corrosion Protection reportable segment. The sale of our interest in BPPC was part of a broader effort to reduce our exposure in the North American upstream market in light of expectations for a prolonged low oil price environment. 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, our board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce our exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. As part of management's ongoing assessment of our energy-related businesses, management determined that the persistent low price of oil is expected to create market challenges for the foreseeable future, including reduced customer spending in 2016. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reposition Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reduce Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting our interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-size Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reduce corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual costs by approximately $17.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. Our previous savings estimate was between $15.0 million to $16.0 million. We expect to reduce headcount by approximately 956 employees, or 15.4%, of our total workforce, and record estimated pre-tax charges, most of which are cash charges, of approximately $15.0 million, which is an increase from our previous estimate between $11.0 million to $13.0 million. The increased cost estimate is the result of longer wind-down efforts associated with the downsizing of our upstream operations in Energy Services and Corrosion Protection and includes expected additional costs related to employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other costs associated with the restructuring. Estimated remaining costs to be incurred for the 2016 Restructuring are approximately $1.5 million and are expected to be incurred in the second half of 2016. The estimated remaining costs consist primarily of cash charges related to office closures, employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs mainly within Energy Services. Total pre-tax restructuring charges during the first six months of 2016 were $13.5 million ($9.1 million after tax), most of which were cash charges, and consisted primarily of employee severance and benefits, early lease termination other costs associated with the restructuring efforts as described above. 2014 Restructuring On October 6, 2014, our board of directors approved the 2014 Restructuring to improve gross margins and profitability in the long term by exiting low-return markets and reducing the size and cost of our overhead structure. The 2014 Restructuring generated annual operating cost savings of approximately $10.8 million, which was in-line with our initial estimate, and consisted of approximately $8.4 million and $2.4 million of recognized savings within Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection, respectively. We achieved these cost savings by (i) exiting certain unprofitable international locations for our Insituform business and consolidating our worldwide Fyfe business with the global Insituform business, all of which is in Infrastructure Solutions; and (ii) eliminating certain idle facilities in our Bayou pipe coating operation in Louisiana, which is in Corrosion Protection. We have substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. Total headcount reductions were 86 as of June 30, 2016. Remaining headcount reductions and cash costs related to the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material. In February 2015, and in connection with the 2014 Restructuring, we sold our wholly-owned subsidiary, VII, our French 34 cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP") contracting operation, to certain employees of VII. In connection with the sale, we entered into a five-year exclusive tube supply agreement whereby VII will purchase liners from Insituform Lining. VII will also be entitled to continue to use its trade name based on a trade mark license granted for the same five-year time period. The sale resulted in a loss of approximately $2.9 million that was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations during the first quarter of 2015. See the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further information. Total pre-tax restructuring charges since inception were $60.4 million ($44.8 million after tax) and consisted of non-cash charges totaling $48.3 million and cash charges totaling $12.1 million. The non-cash charges of $48.3 million included (i) $22.2 million related to the impairment of certain long-lived assets and definite-lived intangible assets for Bayou's pipe coating operation in Louisiana and (ii) $26.1 million related to impairment of definite-lived intangible assets, allowances for accounts receivable, write-off of certain other current assets and long-lived assets, inventory obsolescence, as well as losses related to the sales of our CIPP contracting operations in France and Switzerland. Cash charges totaling $12.1 million included employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other costs associated with the restructuring of Insituform's European and Asia-Pacific operations and Fyfe's worldwide business. Cash costs incurred in the first six months of 2016 for the 2014 Restructuring have not been material. While remaining cash costs are also not expected to be material, we do expect to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the restructured locations as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. Results of Operations Quarters and Six-Month Periods Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Overview Consolidated Results Key financial data for consolidated operations was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. "N/M" represents not meaningful. 35 Revenues Revenues decrease d $39.4 million , or 11.7% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to (i) a $28.9 million decline in Energy Services as upstream project activity decreased $17.0 million as a result of challenging upstream energy market conditions and our decision to downsize our exposure to the upstream energy market, and downstream project activity decreased $11.9 million mainly due to a decrease in turnaround and non-recurring maintenance cleanup services; and (ii) an $11.6 million decline in Corrosion Protection mainly due to a decrease in upstream, and to a lessor extent midstream, project activity primarily in the Canadian region, which has also been negatively affected by the low oil price environment, and the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest, BPPC, on February 1, 2016. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues was an increase of $1.1 million in Infrastructure Solutions, primarily driven by a $11.0 million contribution from Underground Solutions, which was acquired on February 18, 2016, partially offset by a $9.8 million decrease in Fyfe project activity in North America. Also contributing to the change in revenues were increases primarily related to Insituform contracting installation services activity in North America in Infrastructure Solutions and domestic cathodic protection project activity in Corrosion Protection. Foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar (most notably the Canadian dollar and British pound) had a negative impact on consolidated revenues of $2.6 million during the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Revenues decreased $54.7 million , or 8.5% , in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to (i) a $38.2 million decline in Energy Services mainly associated with a $35.0 million decrease in upstream project activity, as noted above; and (ii) a $20.9 million reduction in Corrosion Protection mainly due to a decrease in upstream, and to a lesser extent midstream, project activity primarily in the Canadian region and the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest, BPPC. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues was an increase of $4.4 million in Infrastructure Solutions primarily driven by a $15.6 million contribution from Underground Solutions, partially offset by a $11.7 million decrease in Fyfe project activity in North America. Also contributing to the change in revenues were increases primarily related to Insituform contracting installation services activity in North America in Infrastructure Solutions and domestic cathodic protection project activity in Corrosion Protection. Foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar (most notably the Canadian dollar, Chilean peso and British pound) had a negative impact on consolidated revenues of $8.3 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit decrease d $10.9 million , or 15.1% , and gross profit margin decline d 80 basis points in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges totaling $1.0 million in the second quarter of 2015 related to costs associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding 2014 Restructuring charges, gross profit decreased $11.9 million, or 16.2%, and gross profit margin decreased 110 basis points in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to declining revenues in Energy Services, Corrosion Protection's Canadian operations, and Infrastructure Solutions' Fyfe operation in North America. Partially offsetting these decreases in gross profit was an increase primarily related to higher revenues in Infrastructure Solutions' Insituform business in North America and Corrosion Protection's domestic cathodic protection operation. Underground Solutions contributed $2.6 million in gross profit in the second quarter of 2016, which was net of an expense of $2.4 million related to the recognition of inventory step up associated with the acquisition of Underground Solutions. Gross profit was immaterially impacted by the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest. Gross profit was negatively impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.4 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Gross profit margin declined primarily due to the negative impacts from challenging market conditions in the upstream energy market for Energy Services and the Canadian energy market for Corrosion Protection, partially offset by an increase related to improved manufacturing efficiencies, material cost savings and organic growth in Infrastructure Solutions, notably in the United States. Gross profit decrease d $15.6 million , or 11.9% , and gross profit margin decline d 80 basis points in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges totaling $1.0 million in the first six months of 2015 related to costs associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding 2014 Restructuring charges, gross profit decreased $16.6 million, or 12.5%, and gross profit margin declined 100 basis points in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015. The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to declining revenues in Energy Services, Corrosion Protection's Canadian operations, and Infrastructure Solutions' Fyfe operation in North America. Included in the decrease in gross profit was a $2.0 million decrease related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest. Partially offsetting these decrease in gross profit was an increase primarily related to higher revenues in Infrastructure Solutions' Insituform business in North America and Corrosion Protection's domestic cathodic protection operation. Underground Solutions contributed $4.0 million in gross profit in the first six months of 2016, which was net of an expense of $3.6 million related to the recognition of inventory step up associated with the acquisition of Underground Solutions. Gross profit was negatively impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $1.4 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. The changes in gross profit and gross profit margin 36 were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in gross profit and gross profit margin in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Operating Expenses Operating expenses decrease d $6.5 million , or 11.4% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $2.0 million in the second quarter of 2016 primarily related to cost reduction efforts related to the downsizing of our upstream operations. As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.1 million and $4.5 million in the second quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively, associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d by $4.0 million , or 7.7% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to our restructuring efforts, which generated cost savings in Energy Services' upstream operation and Corrosion Protection's upstream and midstream operations. Included in the decrease in operating expenses was a $1.8 million offset to operating expenses related to a decrease in a reserve for certain Brinderson pre-acquisition matters and a $0.4 million decrease related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in operating expenses of $3.0 million contributed by Underground Solutions. Operating expenses were favorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.5 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 17.1% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 17.0% in the second quarter of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.4% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 15.7% in the second quarter of 2015 . In the first six months of 2016 , operating expenses decrease d $4.9 million , or 4.6% , compared to the first six months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $4.9 million in the first six months of 2016 primarily related to cost reduction efforts including the downsizing of our upstream operations. As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $(0.2) million and $4.6 million in the first six months of 2016 and 2015, respectively, associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses decreased by $5.0 million, or 4.9%, in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015. Included in the decrease in operating expenses was a $1.8 million offset to operating expenses related to a decrease in a reserve for certain Brinderson pre-acquisition matters and a $0.8 million decrease related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in operating expenses of $4.3 million contributed by Underground Solutions. Operating expenses were favorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $1.6 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 17.2% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 16.5% in the first six months of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.4% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 15.7% in the first six months of 2015. Consolidated Net Income (Loss) Consolidated net income was $3.4 million in the second quarter of 2016 , a decrease of $5.3 million , or 60.6% , from consolidated net income of $8.7 million in the second quarter of 2015 . Excluding the following pre-tax items: (i) 2016 Restructuring charges of $3.8 million in the second quarter of 2016; (ii) 2014 Restructuring charges of $0.1 million and $5.7 million in the second quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively; (iii) inventory step up costs related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions of $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2016; and (iv) acquisition-related expenses of $0.7 million in the second quarter of 2016; consolidated net income was $8.0 million in the second quarter of 2016, a decrease of $5.1 million, or 38.7%, from consolidated net income of $13.1 million in the second quarter of 2015. Consolidated net loss was $0.4 million in the first six months of 2016 , a decrease of $10.4 million , or 103.7% , from consolidated net income of $10.0 million in the first six months of 2015 . Excluding the following pre-tax items: (i) 2016 Restructuring charges of $13.5 million in the first six months of 2016; (ii) 2014 Restructuring charges of $(0.1) million and $9.2 million in the first six months of 2016 and 2015, respectively; (iii) inventory step up costs related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions of $3.6 million in the first six months of 2016; and (iv) acquisition-related expenses of $1.7 million and $0.3 million in the first six months of 2016 and 2015, respectively; consolidated net income was $12.3 million in the first six months of 2016, a decrease of $5.6 million, or 31.1%, from consolidated net income of $17.9 million in the first six months of 2015. The decrease in consolidated net income for both comparable periods, excluding the items noted above, was primarily due to the decline in project activities in Energy Services' upstream operation as we downsized our exposure to the upstream energy market, Corrosion Protection's operations in Canada, and Infrastructure Solutions' Fyfe operation in North America. Partially offsetting the decrease in consolidated net income were increases related to the incremental contribution from Infrastructure Solutions' Underground Solutions, an increase in Infrastructure Solutions' Insituform contracting installation services activity in North America and operating expense savings related to our restructuring efforts. Consolidated net income in the first six 37 months of 2016, as compared to the first six months of 2015, also benefited from the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. The change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar had an immaterial impact on the consolidated net income (loss) in the second quarter and first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year periods. Contract Backlog Contract backlog is our expectation of revenues to be generated from received, signed and uncompleted contracts, the cancellation of which is not anticipated at the time of reporting. The Company assumes that these signed contracts are funded. For its government or municipal contracts, the Company's customers generally obtain funding through local budgets or pre-approved bond financing. The Company has not undertaken a process to verify funding status of these contracts and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate what portion, if any, of its contracts in backlog have not been funded. However, the Company has little history of signed contracts being canceled due to the lack of funding. Contract backlog excludes any term contract amounts for which there are not specific and determinable work releases or values beyond a renewal date in the forward 12-month period. Projects where we have been advised that we are the low bidder, but have not formally been awarded the contract, are not included. Although backlog represents only those contracts and Master Service Agreements ("MSAs") that are considered to be firm, there can be no assurance that cancellation or scope adjustments will not occur with respect to such contracts. The following table sets forth our consolidated backlog by segment (in millions): __________________________ (1) June 30, 2016, March 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and June 30, 2015 included backlog from restructured entities of zero, zero, $0.5 million and $3.3 million, respectively. (2) June 30, 2016, March 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and June 30, 2015 included upstream-related backlog of $31.3 million, $34.4 million, $41.1 million and $68.2 million, respectively. (3) Represents expected unrecognized revenues to be realized under long-term MSAs and other signed contracts. If the remaining term of these arrangements exceeds 12 months, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such arrangements included in backlog are limited to only the next 12 months of expected revenues. Within our Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection segments, certain contracts are performed through our variable interest entities, in which we own a controlling portion of the entity. As of June30, 2016 , 0.1% and 35.5% of our Infrastructure Solutions backlog and Corrosion Protection backlog, respectively, related to these variable interest entities. A substantial majority of our contracts in these two segments are fixed price contracts with individual private businesses and municipal and federal government entities across the world. Energy Services, on the other hand, generally enters into cost reimbursable contracts that are based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. 38 Infrastructure Solutions Segment Key financial data for Infrastructure Solutions was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. "N/M" represents not meaningful. Revenues Revenues in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $1.1 million , or 0.7% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we exited, or were in the process of exiting, certain foreign operations primarily in 2015. Excluding revenues from restructured operations, revenues in Infrastructure Solutions increased $3.5 million, or 2.4%, in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to the February 2016 acquisition of Underground Solutions and the June 2016 acquisition of the CIPP business of LMJ, which contributed revenues of $11.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in the second quarter of 2016. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues associated with these acquisitions, was a decrease in revenues in our North American operation. The decrease in our North American operation was specifically related to a decline in Fyfe project activity, primarily due to the lack in 2016 of a large industrial project that was performed and completed in 2015, partially offset by an increase in revenues generated from Insituform contracting installation services activity in North America. Revenues were unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $1.0 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Revenues increased $4.4 million , or 1.6% , in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . Excluding revenues from restructured operations, revenues increased $8.9 million, or 3.3%, in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions and the CIPP business of LMJ, which contributed revenues of $15.6 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in the first six months of 2016. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues associated with these acquisitions, was a decrease in revenues in our North American operation, and to a lesser extent, our European and Asia-Pacific operations. The decrease in our North American operation was specifically related to a decline in Fyfe project activity, primarily due to the lack in 2016 of a large industrial project that was performed and completed in 2015, partially offset by an increase in revenues generated from Insituform contracting installation services activity in North America. Revenues were unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $2.8 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. 39 Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $0.1 million , or 0.4% , and gross profit margin decline d 10 basis points in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges totaling $1.0 million in the second quarter of 2015 related to costs associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding 2014 Restructuring charges, gross profit decreased $0.9 million, or 2.2%, and gross profit margin decreased 80 basis points in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Gross profit decreased primarily due to the decline in Fyfe project activity in our North American operation, mainly due to the lack in 2016 of the large industrial project from 2015, and lower utilization in our European contracting operation. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in gross profit primarily related to increased contracting installation services activity in Insituform within our North American operation. Gross profit in the second quarter of 2016 included a contribution from Underground Solutions of $2.6 million. Included in the $2.6 million contribution from Underground Solutions was an expense of $2.4 million for the recognition of inventory step up required in the accounting for business combinations related to the Underground Solutions acquisition. Gross profit margin declined mainly as a result of lower project activity in our Fyfe North American business, and to a lesser extent, lower labor utilization in our European and Asia-Pacific operations due to timing of project activity. Partially offsetting the decline in gross profit margin was an increase in our North American operation primarily related to continued efficiency improvements in our manufacturing business and savings related to certain material costs, as well as the margin contribution from Underground Solutions. Gross profit was unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.3 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Gross profit increase d $1.3 million , or 1.9% , and gross profit margin improve d 10 basis points in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges totaling $1.0 million in the first six months of 2015, as noted above. Excluding 2014 Restructuring charges, gross profit increased $0.3 million, or 0.4%, and gross profit margin declined 30 basis points in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015. The changes in gross profit and gross profit margin were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in gross profit and gross profit margin in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015, as noted previously. Gross profit in the first six months of 2016 included a contribution from Underground Solutions of $4.0 million. Included in the $4.0 million contribution from Underground Solutions was an expense of $3.6 million for the recognition of inventory step up related to the Underground Solutions acquisition. Gross profit was unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.5 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Infrastructure Solutions decrease d $1.9 million , or 7.2% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.4 million in the second quarter of 2016 related to cost reduction efforts. As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.1 million and $4.5 million in the second quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively, associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses increase d $2.1 million , or 9.5% . The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Underground Solutions, which contributed $3.0 million in operating expenses in the second quarter of 2016. Partially offsetting the increase in operating expenses was a decrease related to efficiencies gained as part of the 2014 Restructuring, mostly related to the integration of our Fyfe business with our Insituform business in our North American operation, and cost reductions resulting from the 2016 Restructuring. Operating expenses were positively impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.4 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.5% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 17.9% in the second quarter of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.2% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 14.9% in the second quarter of 2015 . Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues increased primarily due to the contribution from Underground Solutions, which was inclusive of amortization expense associated with intangible assets. Operating expenses decrease d $1.6 million , or 3.5% , in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.6 million in the first six months of 2016 related to cost reduction efforts. As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $(0.2) million and $4.6 million in the first six month of 2016 and 2015 , respectively, associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses increased $2.6 million , or 6.1% . The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Underground Solutions, which contributed $4.3 million in operating expenses in the first six months of 2016. Partially offsetting the increase in operating expenses were decreases related to efficiencies gained as part of the 2014 Restructuring and cost reductions resulting from the 2016 Restructuring, as noted previously, and cost reductions in our European operation. Operating expenses were positively impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.6 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. 40 Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.6% for the first six months of 2016 compared to 17.4% in the first six months of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.4% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 15.7% in the first six months of 2015 . Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues increased primarily due to the contribution from Underground Solutions, which was inclusive of amortization expense associated with intangible assets. Operating Income and Operating Margin Operating income in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $1.0 million , or 7.9% , to $13.1 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to $12.1 million in the second quarter of 2015 . Operating margin improved 60 basis points to 8.7% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 8.1% in the second quarter of 2015 . As part of our restructuring efforts, we recognized charges related to the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring of $1.0 million in the second quarter of 2016 and charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $5.7 million in the second quarter of 2015 . Additionally, as a result of the Underground Solutions acquisition, we incurred an expense of $2.4 million related to the recognition of inventory step up and $0.7 million in acquisition-related expenses in the second quarter of 2016. Excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, operating income decrease d $0.6 million , or 3.5% , to $17.2 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to $17.8 million in the second quarter of 2015 . Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, decline d 50 basis points to 11.4% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 11.9% in the second quarter of 2015 . The decreases in operating income and operating margin in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 were primarily due to a decline in Fyfe project activity in North America and a decline in labor utilization in our European operation, partially offset by an increase in Insituform contracting installation services activity in North America and the contribution from Underground Solutions. Operating income decreased $0.6 million , or 2.9% , to $18.9 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to $19.4 million in the first six months of 2015 . Operating margin decreased 40 basis points to 6.8% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 7.2% in the first six months of 2015 . As part of our restructuring efforts, we recognized charges related to the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring of $3.1 million in the first six months of 2016 and charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $6.5 million in the first six months of 2015. Additionally, as a result of the Underground Solutions acquisition, we incurred an expense of $3.6 million related to the recognition of inventory step up and $1.7 million in acquisition-related expenses in the first six months of 2016. Excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, operating income increased $1.3 million , or 4.9% , to $27.2 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to $25.9 million in the first six months of 2015 . Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, increased 40 basis points to 9.9% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 9.5% in the first six months of 2015 . Operating income and operating margin were impacted primarily due to the same factors as noted above for the changes in operating income and operating margin in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Operating income for Infrastructure Solutions was immaterially impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar in the second quarter and first six months of 2016 . Corrosion Protection Segment Key financial data for Corrosion Protection was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. "N/M" represents not meaningful. 41 ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. "N/M" represents not meaningful. Revenues Revenues in Corrosion Protection decrease d $11.6 million , or 11.0% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a $11.1 million decline in revenues generated from our Canadian operations, which included a $3.0 million decline related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest, BPPC, in the first quarter of 2016. The continued, persistent low oil price environment in Canada resulted in a decreased demand for our services within our Canadian cathodic protection operation and our Canadian industrial linings operation. Also contributing to the decrease in revenues was a decline in project activities in the Middle East for both our cathodic protection and industrial linings operations. Partially offsetting the decreases in revenues was an increase primarily related to project activity in our domestic cathodic protection operation. Revenues were unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $1.7 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Revenues decrease d $20.9 million , or 10.1% , in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a $29.4 million decline in revenues generated from our Canadian operations, which included a $10.8 million decline related to the sale of BPPC, due to weak Canadian market conditions impacting our cathodic protection and industrial linings operations, as noted above. Also contributing to the decrease in revenues was a decline in project activities in the Middle East for both our cathodic protection and industrial linings operations. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues was an increase primarily related to increased project activity in our domestic pipe coating operation, our domestic and European cathodic protection operations and our industrial linings operation in South America, the latter of which benefited from a large project. Revenues were unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $5.5 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Corrosion Protection decrease d $4.8 million , or 21.9% , and gross profit margin decline d 250 basis points in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.1 million in the second quarter of 2016 related to the downsizing of certain upstream and midstream operations. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, gross profit decreased $4.7 million, or 21.6%, and gross profit margin decreased 240 basis points in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Gross profit decreased primarily due to a decline in revenues generated from our Canadian operations, as noted above, resulting in a $2.0 million decrease in associated gross profit. Included in the $2.0 million decrease in gross profit from our Canadian operations was an increase of $0.3 million related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest, BPPC. Gross profit also decreased as a result of declining revenues in our industrial linings operation, lower labor utilization in our domestic pipe coating operation, and increased costs in our coating services operation, specifically on certain projects in South America and the Middle East. Partially offsetting the decrease in gross profit was an increase primarily related to increased project activity and improved efficiencies in our domestic and European cathodic protection operations. Gross profit margin declined mainly as a result of lower labor and equipment utilization related to declining project activity throughout our Canadian operations, our domestic pipe coating operation and our industrial linings operation, as well as increased costs in our coating services operation. The decrease in gross profit margin was partially offset by an increase primarily related to improved labor and and equipment utilization rates in our domestic cathodic protection operations. Gross profit was unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.2 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Gross profit decrease d $8.4 million , or 19.7% , and gross profit margin decline d 220 basis points in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.1 million in the 42 first six months of 2016 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, gross profit decreased $8.3 million, or 19.6%, and gross profit margin decreased 220 basis points in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015. Gross profit decreased primarily due to declining revenues in our Canadian operations which resulted in an $8.1 million decrease in associated gross profit. Included in the $8.1 million decrease in gross profit from our Canadian operations was a decrease of $2.0 million related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest. Additionally, gross profit decreased primarily as a result of lower labor utilization in our domestic pipe coating operation and increased costs in our coating services operation. Partially offsetting the decrease in gross profit was an increase primarily related to increased project activity and improved efficiencies in our domestic cathodic protection operations. The changes in gross profit margin in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in gross profit margin in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Gross profit was unfavorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.8 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Corrosion Protection decrease d $2.2 million , or 10.4% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.1 million in the second quarter of 2016 related to the downsizing of certain upstream and midstream operations. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $2.3 million , or 10.9% , primarily due to savings generated from our 2016 Restructuring efforts primarily in our cathodic protection operation and our industrial linings operation. Operating expenses also decreased due to savings of $0.4 million from the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture and reserve for doubtful accounts of $0.6 million which was recorded in the second quarter of 2015 related to a certain long-dated receivable in dispute with a customer in our coating services operation. Operating expenses were favorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $0.2 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 19.9% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 19.8% in the second quarter of 2015 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 19.8% in the second quarter s of both 2016 and 2015 . Operating expenses decrease d $2.1 million , or 5.0% , in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015. As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.4 million in the first six months of 2016 related to the downsizing of certain midstream and upstream operations. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decreased $2.5 million, or 6.0%, primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating expenses in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. The decrease in operating expenses associated with the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture was $0.8 million. Operating expenses were favorably impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in relation to the U.S. dollar by $1.0 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 21.0% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 19.9% in the first six months of 2015. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 20.8% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 19.9% in the first six months of 2015. Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income (loss) in Corrosion Protection decrease d $3.4 million , or 363.8% , to a loss of $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to income of $0.9 million in the second quarter of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 350 basis points to (2.6)% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 0.9% in the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $1.0 million in the second quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income (loss) decrease d $2.4 million , or 261.5% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 and operating margin decline d 250 basis points to (1.6)% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 0.9% in the second quarter of 2015 . The decreases in operating income (loss) and operating margin were primarily due to declining revenues and gross profit stemming from challenging market conditions for our Canadian operations and a decline in project activity in our coating services operation and our domestic pipe coating operation. Partially offsetting the declines were increases related to increased revenues and gross profit in our domestic cathodic protection operation. Operating income decreased $9.6 million , or 666.8% , to a loss of $8.1 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to income of $1.4 million in the first six months of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 510 basis points to (4.4)% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 0.7% in the first six months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $3.7 million in first six months of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income (loss) decreased $5.9 million, or 409.6%, in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 and operating margin declined 310 basis points to (2.4)% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 0.7% in the first six months of 2015. The decreases in operating income (loss) and operating 43 margin were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating income (loss) and operating margin in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Operating income for Corrosion Protection was immaterially impacted by the change in foreign currency rates in the second quarter and first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year periods. Energy Services Segment Key financial data for Energy Services was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. "N/M" represents not meaningful. Energy Services operates solely in the United States and generates all revenues and incurs all expenses in U.S. dollars. There were no impacts from foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar for the segment for the reported periods. Revenues Revenues in Energy Services decrease d $28.9 million , or 35.3% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . The decrease was due to a revenue decline of $17.0 million in our upstream operation, located primarily in Central California, as we significantly reduced our upstream operation in response to challenging upstream energy market conditions. Also contributing to the decrease in revenues was a revenue decline of $11.9 million in our downstream operation as turnaround, refinery clean-up and construction services activities declined from the prior year period. Revenues decrease d $38.2 million , or 22.9% , in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . The decrease was due to a $35.0 million revenue decline in our upstream operation, primarily for the reason noted above, and a $3.2 million revenue decline in our downstream operation, primarily due to a decline in refinery clean-up, maintenance and construction services activities. Partially offsetting the revenue decline in our downstream operation, was an increase primarily due to increased turnaround services activity occurring mainly in the first quarter of 2016. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Energy Services decrease d $6.2 million , or 55.9% , and gross profit margin decline d 430 basis points in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to reduced revenues in our upstream and downstream operations, as noted above, as well as cost overruns mainly on certain, discreet lump sum construction projects. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to price pressures and reductions in higher margin 44 activities in our upstream operation, thereby making it more challenging to recover our labor and equipment costs. Additionally, we experienced lower downstream margins related to client driven shifts in the mix of work, including decreased turnaround and clean-up services activities, and lower upstream margins related to cost overruns on certain lump sum construction projects. Gross profit decrease d $8.5 million , or 40.7% , and gross profit margin decline d 290 basis points in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to declining revenues and cost overruns mainly on certain lump sum construction projects. Partially offsetting the gross profit decline in our downstream operation, was an increase primarily due to increased turnaround services activity occurring mainly in the first quarter of 2016. The change in gross profit margin was primarily due to the same factors impacting the change in gross profit margin in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015, as noted previously. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Energy Services decreased $2.4 million , or 24.8% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2016 primarily related to wind-down and other restructuring-related costs as we downsized our upstream operation. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $3.9 million , or 40.2% , primarily due to controlled spending efforts in response to recent market challenges and as part of our savings initiatives related to the restructuring. Also contributing to the decrease was a $1.8 million offset to operating expenses related to a decrease in a reserve for certain Brinderson pre-acquisition matters and a $0.7 million expense in the second quarter of 2015 for severance related costs due to organizational leadership changes. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 13.7% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 11.8% in the second quarter of 2015 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 10.9% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 11.8% in the second quarter of 2015 . Operating expenses in the first six months of 2016 decreased $1.2 million , or 6.6 %, compared to the first six months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $3.9 million in the first six months of 2016 primarily related to wind-down and other restructuring-related costs as we downsized our upstream operation. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $5.1 million , or 28.8% , primarily due to the same factors impacting operating expenses in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 12.9% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 10.7% in the first six months of 2015. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.8% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 10.7% in the first six months of 2015 . Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income (loss) in Energy Services decrease d $3.9 million , or 266.6% , to a loss of $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to income of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 640 basis points to (4.6)% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 1.8% in the second quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $1.6 million in the second quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits, early lease termination and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income decrease d $2.3 million , or 158.8% , in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 and operating margin decline d 340 basis points to (1.6)% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 1.8% in the second quarter of 2015 . The decreases in operating income (loss) and operating margin were primarily due to decreases in revenues, gross profit and gross profit margins in our upstream and downstream operations. Partially offsetting the declines were operating expense savings associated with controlled spending efforts in response to recent market challenges and as part of our 2016 Restructuring, as well as a reduction in an accrual related to certain employee matters and severance related costs in the second quarter of 2015, as noted earlier. Operating income (loss) decrease d $9.5 million , or 343.4% , to a loss of $6.7 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to income of $2.8 million in the first six months of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 690 basis points to (5.2)% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 1.7% in the first six months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $6.4 million in the first six months of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits, early lease termination and other restructuring costs. Additionally, we incurred $0.3 million in acquisition-related expenses in the first six months of 2015 related to the purchase of Schultz. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges and acquisition-related expenses, operating income decrease d $3.4 million , or 109.4% , in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 and operating margin decline d 200 basis points to (0.2)% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 1.8% in the first six months of 2015 . The decreases in operating income (loss) and operating margin were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating income (loss) and operating margin in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. 45 Other Income (Expense) Interest Income and Expense Interest income increase d $0.1 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher U.S. cash balances during the current year. Interest expense increase d $0.7 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher borrowing costs under our new Credit Facility, higher debt balances resulting from the February 2016 acquisition of Underground Solutions and an increase in amortized loan fees. Interest income decrease d less than $0.1 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Interest expense increase d $1.0 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher borrowing costs under our new Credit Facility, higher debt balances resulting from the February 2016 acquisition of Underground Solutions and an increase in amortized loan fees. Other Income (Expense) Other expense was $0.5 million in the quarter ended June30, 2016 and primarily related to foreign currency exchange losses on revalued assets and liabilities. For the second quarter of 2015, other income was $0.8 million and consisted primarily of income of $0.8 million related a $1.0 million settlement of escrow claims for the acquisition of CRTS, Inc. (as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report). Additionally, we recorded gains of approximately $0.7 million during the second quarter of 2015 on the sale of certain fixed assets related to our restructured entities. Other expense was $1.5 million in the six months ended June30, 2016 and primarily related to foreign currency exchange losses on revalued assets and liabilities. For the first six months of 2015, other expense was $2.0 million , primarily due to the $2.8 million loss recognized on the sale of Video Injection - Insituform SAS during the first quarter of 2015, partially offset by the second quarter of 2015 factors described above. Taxes (Benefit) on Income (Loss) Taxes on income (loss) decrease d $2.6 million during the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 . Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 22.8% in the quarter ended June30, 2016 and 28.6% in the quarter ended June30, 2015 . The effective tax rate in the quarter ended June30, 2016 was favorably impacted by a higher mix of earnings towards foreign jurisdictions, which generally have lower statutory tax rates, and the impact of certain discrete tax items relating to the 2016 Restructuring. The effective tax rate in the quarter ended June 30, 2015 was unfavorably impacted by a relatively small income tax benefit recorded on pre-tax charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and the impact of discrete tax items related to non-deductible restructuring charges. Taxes on income (loss) decrease d $9.2 million during the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 . Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was a benefit of 83.4% in the six months ended June30, 2016 and 34.6% in the six months ended June30, 2015 . The effective tax rate in the six months ended June30, 2016 was favorably impacted by the same factors impacting the effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2016, and a $1.9 million benefit related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. The effective tax rate in the six months ended June 30, 2015 was unfavorably impacted by the same factors impacting the effective tax rate in the quarter ended June 30, 2015 described above. Non-controlling Interests Losses attributable to non-controlling interests was $0.2 million and $0.4 million in the quarter and six months ended June30, 2016 , respectively, while income attributable to non-controlling interests was $0.2 million in both the quarter and six months ended June30, 2015 . In the second quarter and first six months of 2016, losses from our joint ventures in Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Louisiana were partially offset by profitability from our joint venture in Oman. In the second quarter of 2015, profitability from our joint venture in Oman and our insulation coating joint venture in Louisiana, was partially offset by losses from our coating joint venture in Canada as a result of lower profitability caused by challenging market conditions. In the first six months of 2015, profitability from our joint ventures in Oman and Canada was partially offset by losses from our insulation coating joint venture in Louisiana, which had minimal production during the first quarter of 2015. 46 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents Restricted cash held in escrow primarily relates to funds reserved for legal requirements, deposits made in lieu of retention on specific projects performed for municipalities and state agencies, or advance customer payments and compensating balances for bank undertakings in Europe. Changes in restricted cash flows are reported in the consolidated statements of cash flows based on the nature of the restriction. Sources and Uses of Cash We expect the principal operational use of funds for the foreseeable future will be for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, debt service and share repurchases. During the first six months of 2016, capital expenditures were primarily related to the pipe coating and insulation project in our Corrosion Protection segment. Additionally, capital expenditures were also used to support the growth and maintenance capital in our Infrastructure Solutions operations. For the full year of 2016, we expect a comparable level of capital expenditures compared to 2015, with slightly increased levels to complete the pipe-coating plant in Louisiana and support growth of our Infrastructure Solutions business, partially offset by decreased levels in certain of our Corrosion Protection and Energy Services operations as we minimize spending in response to our 2016 Restructuring efforts. As part of our 2016 Restructuring, we incurred $13.0 million in cash charges during the first six months of 2016 related to employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and early lease termination costs as we reposition our Energy Services' upstream operations in California, right-size Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively, and reduce corporate and other operating costs. We estimate our remaining cash costs in 2016 to be approximately $1.5 million related to these activities. These actions, however, are expected to reduce future consolidated annual costs by approximately $17.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. As part of our 2014 Restructuring, we incurred less than $0.1 million in cash charges during the first six months of 2016 related to severance and benefits costs and other restructuring costs associated with exiting certain foreign locations. While estimated remaining cash costs to be incurred in 2016 for the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material, we expect to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the disposal of certain entities as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. At June30, 2016 , our cash balances were located worldwide for working capital and support needs. Given the breadth of our international operations, approximately $62.4 million, or 56.3%, of our cash was denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar as of June30, 2016 . We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences or be subject to regulatory capital requirements; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. As part of the February 2016 acquisition of Underground Solutions, we repatriated approximately $30.4 million from foreign subsidiaries to assist in funding the transaction, incurring approximately $3.5 million in additional taxes. These were viewed as one-time, special-use transactions. With few exceptions, U.S. income taxes, net of applicable foreign tax credits, have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries. Our intention is to permanently reinvest these earnings. Our primary source of cash is operating activities. We occasionally borrow under our line of credit's available capacity to fund operating activities, including working capital investments. Our operating activities include the collection of accounts receivable as well as the ultimate billing and collection of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings. At June30, 2016 , we believed our net accounts receivable and our costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, as reported on our consolidated balance sheet, were fully collectible and a significant portion of the receivables will be collected within the next twelve months. At June30, 2016 , we had certain net receivables (as discussed in the following paragraph) that we believe will be collected but are being disputed by the customer in some manner, which has impacted or may meaningfully impact the timing of collection or require us to invoke our contractual rights to an arbitration or mediation process, or take legal action. If in a future period we believe any of these receivables are no longer collectible, we would increase our allowance for bad debts through a charge to earnings. 47 As of June30, 2016 , we had approximately $4.4 million in receivables related to certain projects in Texas and Morocco that have been delayed in payment for separate and unavoidable reasons. We are in various stages of discussions and dispute resolution with the project clients regarding such receivables. In each of the above instances, the customer has failed to meet its payment obligations in the time frame set forth in the respective contracts. We believe that we have performed our obligations pursuant to such contracts, and are duly exercising our rights under the respective contracts to receive payment. We believe the likelihood of success in each of these cases is probable and we are vigorously defending our position in each respective contract. In March 2016, we settled an outstanding project dispute with a client in Infrastructure Solutions. In connection with the settlement, we agreed to forgo approximately $7.5 million in receivables owed by our client and we agreed to pay an additional $2.4 million. During April 2016, we paid the settlement amount. The customer receivable, along with the related allowance for doubtful account, was written off as of March 31, 2016. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operating activities provided $9.9 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to $58.4 million provided in the first six months of 2015 . The decrease in operating cash flow from the prior year period was primarily due to lower net income, inclusive of non-cash items, and lower cash flows related to working capital. Net income during the first six months of 2016 was negatively impacted by $13.0 million in cash charges related to our 2016 Restructuring. Working capital used $20.8 million of cash during the first six months of 2016 compared to $19.5 million provided in the comparable period of 2015 . During the first six months of 2016 , cash flow provided by working capital requirements was impacted by seasonal payments of accounts payable due to increased project activity in the summer months, partially offset by lower days sales outstanding, which decreased approximately 10 days at June30, 2016 compared to June30, 2015 . The decrease in days sales outstanding was primarily due to the timing of billing and advance deposits received on certain coatings projects at our Bayou Louisiana facility and the impact of stronger collections in Infrastructure Solutions. During the first six months of 2015, cash flow provided by working capital requirements was primarily impacted by significant movements in billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings. Our billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings was $63.4 million at June 30, 2015, an increase of $20.4 million from December 31, 2014, due partially to the timing of billing and advance deposits received on certain coatings projects at our Bayou Louisiana facility. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities used $105.6 million during the first six months of 2016 compared to $19.4 million used in the comparable period of 2015 . During the first six months of 2016 , we used $91.2 million to acquire Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe and the CIPP business of LMJ. During the first six months of 2015, we used $6.9 million to acquire Schultz Mechanical Contractors. During 2016, we received proceeds of $4.6 million , net of cash disposed, from the sale of our interests in Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada. We used $19.4 million in cash for capital expenditures in the first six months of 2016 compared to $12.1 million in the prior year period. The increase during the first six months of 2016 was primarily due to $8.1 million in capital expenditures related to the pipe coating and insulation project in our Corrosion Protection segment. In the first six months of 2016 and 2015 , $1.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively, of non-cash capital expenditures were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Capital expenditures in the first six months of 2016 and 2015 were partially offset by $2.4 million and $1.2 million , respectively, in proceeds received from asset disposals. We anticipate approximately $35.0 million to be spent in 2016 on capital expenditures to support our global operations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities provided $0.3 million during the first six months of 2016 compared to $34.6 million used in the first six months of 2015 . During the first six months of 2016 and 2015 , we used net cash of $25.2 million and $20.6 million , respectively, to repurchase 1,365,249 and 1,091,122 shares, respectively, of our common stock through open market purchases and in connection with our equity compensation programs as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report. We had net borrowings of $36.0 million from our line of credit during the first six months of 2016, primarily to fund our acquisition activity, and we used cash of $8.8 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan. During the first six months of 2015, we used cash of $13.1 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan and, as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report, we made a $26.5 million mandatory prepayment on the balance of our term loan, utilizing $26.0 million from our line of credit to fund the term loan prepayment. 48 Long-Term Debt In October 2015, we entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of banks. Bank of America, N.A. served as the sole administrative agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association acted as co-syndication agents. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Securities LLC, and U.S. Bank National Association acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers in the syndication of the credit facility. The credit facility consists of a $300.0 million five-year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five-year term loan facility, each with an original maturity date in October 2020. Generally, interest is charged on the principal amounts outstanding under the credit facility at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus an applicable rate ranging from 1.25% to 2.25% depending on our consolidated leverage ratio. We can also opt for an interest rate equal to a base rate (as defined in the credit documents) plus an applicable rate, which is also based on our consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable LIBOR borrowing rate (LIBOR plus our applicable rate) as of June30, 2016 was approximately 3.25% . Our indebtedness at June30, 2016 consisted of $336.9 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the credit facility and $36.0 million on the line of credit under the credit facility. During 2016, we (i) borrowed $30.0 million on the line of credit to help fund the acquisition of Underground Solutions; (ii) borrowed $3.0 million on the line of credit to help fund a small acquisition; and (iii) had net borrowings of $3.0 million on the line of credit for international working capital needs. Additionally, we designated $9.6 million of debt held by our joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by our joint venture partners) as third-party debt in our consolidated financial statements and held $0.2 million of third-party notes and bank debt at June30, 2016 . Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2014, our previous credit facility required an annual mandatory prepayment against the term loan obligation in an amount equal to 50% of the Excess Cash Flow, as defined by the credit facility, if our Consolidated Leverage Ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.0, as of the end of that fiscal year. Our Consolidated Leverage Ratio at December 31, 2014 was 2.90 to 1.0. On March 31, 2015, we made the required term loan prepayment in the amount of $26.5 million, utilizing $26.0 million from the line of credit to fund the term loan prepayment obligation. As of June30, 2016 , we had $28.9 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the credit facility. Of such amount, $16.6 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $12.3 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. In October 2015, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrored the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of our $350.0 million term loan drawn from our credit facility. The swap requires us to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for us to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated by amortizing the $262.5 million same notional amount. The annualized borrowing rate of the swap at June30, 2016 was 3.46% . The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offset a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of our term loan from the credit facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement, and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The credit facility is subject to certain financial covenants including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at June30, 2016 and expect continued compliance for the foreseeable future. We believe that we have adequate resources and liquidity to fund future cash requirements and debt repayments with cash generated from operations, existing cash balances and additional short- and long-term borrowing capacity for the next 12 months. We expect cash generated from operations to remain solid throughout the remainder of 2016 due to improved working capital management initiatives and the cost savings generated through our restructuring efforts. Disclosure of Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments There were no material changes in contractual obligations and commercial commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further discussion regarding our commitments and contingencies. 49Item 1. Financial Statements AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 3 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (in thousands) __________________________ (1) Amounts presented net of tax of $23 and $4 for the quarters ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $(21) and $3 for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. (2) Amounts presented net of tax of $617 and $(183) for the quarters ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $(2,100) and $74 for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 4 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 5 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (Unaudited) (in thousands, except number of shares) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 6 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (in thousands) 7 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 8 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1.GENERAL The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Aegion Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Aegion" or the "Company") reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the dates and periods presented. Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected during the remainder of the current year or for any future period. All significant intercompany related accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015, which is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, and the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the requirements of Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X and, consequently, do not include all information or footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements or all the disclosures normally made in an Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, the unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes included in the Company's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29, 2016. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce the Company's exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. As part of management's ongoing assessment of its energy-related businesses, the Company determined that the persistent low price of oil was expected to create market challenges for the foreseeable future, including reduced customer spending in 2016. The Company substantially completed its 2016 Restructuring objectives in the first nine months of 2016, including repositioning Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reducing Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sizing Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reducing corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual expenses by approximately $17.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. See Note 3. Infrastructure Solutions Segment ("Infrastructure Solutions") On July 1, 2016, the Company acquired Concrete Solutions Limited ("CSL") and Building Chemical Supplies Limited ("BCS"), two New Zealand companies (collectively, "Concrete Solutions" ), for a purchase price paid at closing of NZD 7.5 million , approximately $5.4 million . The purchase price is subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and included NZD 0.5 million held in escrow as security for post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of the previous owners. The sellers have the ability to earn up to an additional NZD 2.0 million , approximately $1.4 million , of proceeds based on reaching certain performance targets in 2016, 2017 and 2018. The transaction was funded from the Company's cash balances. CSL provides structural strengthening, concrete repair and bridge jointing solutions primarily through application of fiber reinforced polymer ( "FRP" ) and injection resins and had served as a Fibrwrap certified applicator in New Zealand for a number of years. BCS imports and distributes materials, including fiber reinforced polymer, injection resins, repair mortars and protective coatings . On June 2, 2016, the Company acquired the cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP") contracting operations of Leif M. Jensen A/S ("LMJ"), a Danish company and the Insituform licensee in Denmark since 2011. The purchase price was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million , and was funded from the Company's cash balances. On May 13, 2016, the Company acquired the operations and territories of Fyfe Europe S.A. and related companies ("Fyfe Europe") for a purchase price of $3.0 million . The transaction was funded from the Company's cash balances. Fyfe Europe held rights to provide Fibrwrap product engineering and support to installers and applicators of FRP systems in 72 countries throughout Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. The acquisition of these territories now provides the Company with worldwide rights to market, manufacture and install the patented Tyfo Fibrwrap FRP technology. On February 18, 2016, the Company acquired Underground Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiary, Underground Solutions Technologies Group, Inc. (collectively, "Underground Solutions"), for an initial purchase price of $85.0 million plus an additional $5.0 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss 9 carry forwards. The purchase price included $6.3 million held in escrow as security for the post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of Underground Solutions' previous owners. The transaction was funded partially from the Company's cash balances and partially from borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility. To supplement the domestic cash balances, the Company repatriated approximately $30.4 million from foreign subsidiaries to assist in funding the transaction, incurring approximately $3.5 million in additional taxes, a reserve for which was included in the Company's tax provision amounts for 2015. Underground Solutions provides infrastructure technologies for water, sewer and conduit applications. In February 2015, the Company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary, Video Injection - Insituform SAS ("VII"), the Company's French CIPP contracting operation, to certain employees of VII. In connection with the sale, the Company entered into a five -year exclusive tube supply agreement whereby VII will purchase liners from Insituform Linings Limited. VII will also be entitled to continue to use its trade name based on a trade mark license granted for the same five-year time period. The sale resulted in a loss of approximately $2.9 million that was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations during the first quarter of 2015. On October 6, 2014, the Company's board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2014 Restructuring") which included the decision to exit Insituform's contracting markets in France, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore. The Company has substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. See Note 3. Corrosion Protection Segment ("Corrosion Protection") On February 1, 2016, the Company sold its fifty-one percent ( 51% ) interest in its Canadian pipe-coating joint venture, Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), to its joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The sale price was $9.6 million , which consisted of a $7.6 million payment at closing and a $2.0 million promissory note, which was paid on July 28, 2016. BPPC served as the Company's pipe coating and insulation operation in Canada. The sale of its interest in BPPC was part of a broader effort by the Company to reduce its exposure in the North American upstream market in light of expectations for a prolonged low oil price environment. As a result of the sale, the Company recognized a pre-tax, non-cash charge of approximately $0.6 million at December 31, 2015 to reflect the expected loss on the sale of the business. This loss was derived primarily from the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments and was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. In July 2015, the Company paid $0.7 million to the sellers of CRTS, Inc. ("CRTS") related to contingent consideration achieved during the year ended December 31, 2013. Also, in June 2015, the Company finalized the settlement of escrow claims made pursuant to the CRTS purchase agreement. As a result of the settlement, the Company received proceeds of approximately $1.0 million in July 2015, of which $0.2 million was recorded as an offset to operating expenses and the remaining $0.8 million was recorded to other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Energy Services Segment ("Energy Services") On March 1, 2015, the Company acquired Schultz Mechanical Contractors, Inc. ("Schultz"), a California corporation, for a total purchase price of $7.7 million . The transaction was funded from the Company's cash balances. Schultz primarily services customers in California and Arizona and is a provider of piping installations, concrete construction and excavation and trenching services to the downstream and upstream oil and gas markets. Purchase Price Accounting During the third quarter of 2016, the Company determined its preliminary accounting for Concrete Solutions and substantially completed its accounting for Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe and LMJ, with the exception of final working capital adjustments. As the Company completes its final accounting for these acquisitions, future adjustments related to working capital, deferred income taxes, definite-lived intangible assets and goodwill could occur. Purchase price accounting related to Schultz was finalized in the first quarter of 2016. The goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Schultz, Fyfe Europe and LMJ acquisitions are deductible for tax purposes; whereas, the goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Underground Solutions and Concrete Solutions acquisitions are not deductible for tax purposes. 10 Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ, Concrete Solutions and Schultz made the following contributions to the Company's revenues and profits (in thousands): _____________________ (1) The reported net income for Underground Solutions for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.3 million . (2) The reported net income for Schultz for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.3 million . (3) The reported net income for Schultz for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.2 million . _____________________ (1) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 includes inventory step up expense of $3.6 million , recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations, and an allocation of corporate expenses of $1.6 million . (2) The reported net loss for Schultz for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 includes charges related to the 2016 Restructuring of $0.2 million and an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.6 million . (3) The reported net income for Schultz for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.3 million . The following unaudited pro forma summary presents combined information of the Company as if the Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ, Concrete Solutions and Schultz acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year preceding their acquisition (in thousands, except earnings per share): _____________________ (1) Includes pro-forma adjustments for depreciation and amortization associated with acquired tangible and intangible assets, as if those assets were recorded at the beginning of the year preceding the acquisition date. The transaction purchase price to acquire Underground Solutions was $88.4 million , which included: (i) a payment at closing of $85.0 million ; (ii) net payment of $5.0 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards; and (iii) working capital adjustments of $1.6 million payable to the Company. The transaction purchase price to acquire Fyfe Europe was $3.0 million , which represented cash consideration paid at closing of $2.8 million plus $0.2 million of deferred contingent consideration, which was recorded to "Accrued expenses" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2016. The transaction purchase price to acquire LMJ was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million , which was paid at closing. The transaction purchase price to acquire Concrete Solutions was NZD 8.9 million , approximately $6.4 million , which included: (i) a payment at closing of NZD 7.5 million , approximately $5.4 million ; (ii) a preliminary working capital adjustment of NZD 0.2 million , approximately $0.1 million (payable to the sellers); and (iii) the estimated fair value of earnout 11 consideration of NZD 1.2 million , approximately $0.9 million , which was recorded to "Other non-current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 30, 2016. The fair value estimate was determined using observable inputs and significant unobservable inputs, which are based on level 3 inputs as defined in Note 12. Total cash consideration recorded to acquire Schultz was $6.7 million , which was funded by the Company's cash reserves. The cash consideration included the purchase price paid at closing of $7.1 million less working capital adjustments of $0.4 million . The total purchase price was $7.7 million , which represented the cash consideration of $6.7 million plus $1.0 million of deferred contingent consideration. During the first quarter of 2016, $0.5 million of the contingent consideration was paid to the previous owners. The following table summarizes the fair value of identified assets and liabilities of the Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ, Concrete Solutions and Schultz acquisitions at their respective acquisition dates (in thousands): 2.ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenues Revenues include construction, engineering and installation revenues that are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting in the ratio of costs incurred to estimated final costs. Revenues from change orders, extra work and variations in the scope of work are recognized when it is probable that they will result in additional contract revenue and when the amount can be reliably estimated. Contract costs include all direct material and labor costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools and equipment costs. The Company expenses all pre-contract costs in the period these costs are incurred. Since the financial reporting of these contracts depends on estimates, which are assessed continually during the term of these contracts, recognized revenues and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. If material, the effects of any changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. When estimates indicate that a loss will be incurred on a contract, a provision for the expected loss is recorded in the period in which the loss becomes evident. Any revenue recognized is only to the extent costs have been recognized in the period. Additionally, the Company expenses all costs for unpriced change orders in the period in which they are incurred. Revenues from the Company's Energy Services segment are derived mainly from multiple engineering and construction type contracts, as well as maintenance contracts, under multi-year long-term master service agreements and alliance contracts. Businesses within the Company's Energy Services segment enter into customer contracts that contain three principal types of 12 pricing provisions: time and materials, cost plus fixed fee and fixed price. Although the terms of these contracts vary, most are made pursuant to cost reimbursable contracts on a time and materials basis under which revenues are recorded based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. These businesses also perform services on a cost plus fixed fee basis under which revenues are recorded based upon costs incurred at agreed upon rates and a proportionate amount of the fixed fee or percentage stipulated in the contract. Foreign Currency Translation Net foreign exchange transaction gains (losses) of $0.3 million and $0.1 million for the quarters ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $(1.4) million and $(0.3) million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, are included in other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For the Company's international subsidiaries, the local currency is generally the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using rates in effect at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The cumulative translation adjustment resulting from changes in exchange rates are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in total stockholders' equity. The Company's accumulated other comprehensive income is comprised of three main components: (i) currency translation; (ii) derivatives; and (iii) gains and losses associated with the Company's defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom. As of September30, 2016 and 2015 , the Company had accumulated comprehensive income (loss) of $(43.2) million and $(44.5) million , respectively, related to currency translation adjustments; $(5.5) million and $(0.5) million , respectively, related to derivative transactions; and $0.5 million and $0.5 million , respectively, related to pension activity in accumulated other comprehensive income. Taxation The Company provides for estimated income taxes payable or refundable on current year income tax returns as well as the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards, based upon enacted tax laws and tax rates, and in accordance with FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes ("FASB ASC 740"). FASB ASC 740 also requires that a valuation allowance be recorded against any deferred tax assets that are not likely to be realized in the future. Refer to Note 9 for additional information regarding taxes on income. Purchase Price Accounting The Company accounts for its acquisitions in accordance with FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations . The base cash purchase price plus the estimated fair value of any non-cash or contingent consideration given for an acquired business is allocated to the assets acquired (including identified intangible assets) and liabilities assumed based on the estimated fair values of such assets and liabilities. The excess of the total consideration over the aggregate net fair values assigned is recorded as goodwill. Contingent consideration, if any, is recognized as a liability as of the acquisition date with subsequent adjustments recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Indirect and general expenses related to business combinations are expensed as incurred. The Company typically determines the fair value of tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination using independent valuations that rely on management's estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. Key assumptions include cash flow projections, growth rates, asset lives, and discount rates based on an analysis of weighted average cost of capital. Long-Lived Assets Property, plant and equipment and other identified intangibles (primarily customer relationships, patents and acquired technologies, trademarks, licenses and non-compete agreements) are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment and, except for goodwill and certain trademarks, are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, changes to the Company's business model or changes in the Company's capital strategy can result in the actual useful lives differing from the Company's estimates. If the Company determines that the useful life of its property, plant and equipment or its identified intangible assets should be changed, the Company would depreciate or amortize the net book value in excess of the salvage value over its revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing or decreasing depreciation or amortization expense. Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment tests are based on a comparison of undiscounted cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. The estimate of cash flow is based upon, among other things, assumptions about expected future operating performance. The Company's estimates of 13 undiscounted cash flow may differ from actual cash flow due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to its business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value, the Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. Goodwill Acquisitions treated as a business combination generally result in goodwill related to, among other things, synergies, acquired workforce, growth opportunities and market potential. Under FASB ASC 350, the Company assesses recoverability of goodwill on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. An impairment charge will be recognized to the extent that the implied fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Factors that could potentially trigger an impairment review include (but are not limited to): significant underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected, historical or forecasted operating results; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant changes in the strategy for a segment including extended slowdowns in the reporting unit's market; a decrease in market capitalization below the Company's book value; and a significant change in regulations. Whether during the annual impairment assessment or during a trigger-based impairment review, the Company determines the fair value of its reporting units and compares such fair value to the carrying value of those reporting units to determine if there are any indications of goodwill impairment. Fair value of reporting units is determined using a combination of two valuation methods: a market approach and an income approach with each method given equal weight in determining the fair value assigned to each reporting unit. Absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transaction, the Company believes the use of these two methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit's fair value. Assumptions common to both methods are operating plans and economic outlooks, which are used to forecast future revenues, earnings and after-tax cash flows for each reporting unit. These assumptions are applied consistently for both methods. The market approach estimates fair value by first determining earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") multiples for comparable publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics of the reporting unit. The EBITDA multiples for comparable companies are based upon current enterprise value. The enterprise value is based upon current market capitalization and includes a control premium. The Company believes this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using multiples from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to its reporting units. The income approach is based on forecasted future (debt-free) cash flows that are discounted to present value using factors that consider timing and risk of future cash flows. The Company believes this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting unit's expected long-term operating cash flow performance. Discounted cash flow projections are based on financial forecasts developed from operating plans and economic outlooks, growth rates, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins, terminal value growth rates, future capital expenditures and changes in working capital requirements. Estimates of discounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes to business models, changes in the Company's weighted average cost of capital, or changes in operating performance. The discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows is one of the most significant assumptions utilized under the income approach. The Company determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital ("WACC") for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the pre-tax cost of debt and cost of equity (a major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on twenty year U.S. Treasury bonds). As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including market-based factors, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs are adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company-specific risks associated with each reporting unit. Investments in Affiliated Companies Investments in entities in which the Company does not have control or is not the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, and for which the Company has 20% to 50% ownership or has the ability to exert significant influence, have historically been accounted for by the equity method. At September 30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , the Company did not own any investments in affiliated companies. 14 Investments in Variable Interest Entities The Company evaluates all transactions and relationships with variable interest entities ("VIE") to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entities in accordance with FASB ASC 810, Consolidation. The Company's overall methodology for evaluating transactions and relationships under the VIE requirements includes the following two steps: determine whether the entity meets the criteria to qualify as a VIE; and determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. In performing the first step, the significant factors and judgments that the Company considers in making the determination as to whether an entity is a VIE include: the design of the entity, including the nature of its risks and the purpose for which the entity was created, to determine the variability that the entity was designed to create and distribute to its interest holders; the nature of the Company's involvement with the entity; whether control of the entity may be achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting equity; whether there is sufficient equity investment at risk to finance the activities of the entity; and whether parties other than the equity holders have the obligation to absorb expected losses or the right to receive residual returns. If the Company identifies a VIE based on the above considerations, it then performs the second step and evaluates whether it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE by considering the following significant factors and judgments: whether the entity has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance; and whether the entity has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. Based on its evaluation of the above factors and judgments, as of September 30, 2016 , the Company consolidated any VIEs in which it was the primary beneficiary. Financial data for consolidated variable interest entities are summarized in the following table (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Amounts exclude the assets and liabilities of BPPC, which was sold in February 2016. (2) Amounts include $21.1 million of current assets and $7.0 million of current liabilities of BPPC, which were classified as held for sale. See Note 5. __________________________ (1) Includes the results of BPPC through the date of its sale in February 2016. Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective retroactively in fiscal years beginning after 15 December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its statement of cash flows. In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment awards to employees, including the accounting for income taxes, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires lessees to present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations. In November 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, to be presented as non-current within the Consolidated Balance Sheet. It is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, but early adoption is permitted. The Company currently reports both current and non-current deferred tax assets and liabilities; however, adoption of the guidance is not expected to have a material impact on its presentation of financial condition. In September 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires acquirers in a business combination to recognize measurement period adjustments in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This is a change from the previous requirement that the adjustments be recorded retrospectively. The Company's adoption of this standard, effective January 1, 2016, did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued guidance that requires management to assess the Company's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related disclosures in certain circumstances. The standard is effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's presentation of, or disclosures in, its consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance that supersedes revenue recognition requirements regarding contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or for the transfer of non-financial assets. Under the new guidance, entities are required to recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis to be performed on transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. This new guidance is effective retroactively in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations. 3.RESTRUCTURING 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Restructuring to reduce its exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. The Company substantially completed its 2016 Restructuring objectives in the first nine months of 2016, including repositioning Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reducing Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sizing Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively, and reducing corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual expenses by approximately $17.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. As part of the 2016 Restructuring, the Company reduced headcount by approximately 960 employees, or 15.5% of the Company's total workforce as of December 31, 2015. Headcount reductions associated with the 2016 Restructuring were substantially completed as of September 30, 2016, with minimal headcount reductions expected in the remainder of the year. The Company expects to record total estimated pre-tax charges, most of which are cash charges, of approximately $15.5 million in connection with the 2016 Restructuring. Estimated remaining costs to be incurred for the 2016 Restructuring are approximately $0.7 million (pre-tax) and are expected to be incurred in the fourth quarter of 2016, primarily in Corrosion Protection. The estimated remaining costs consist primarily of cash charges related to office closures, employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs. 16 Total pre-tax 2016 Restructuring charges during the first nine months of 2016 were $14.8 million ( $9.7 million after tax) and consisted primarily of cash charges. These charges included employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs associated with the restructuring efforts described above. During the quarter and nine months ended September30, 2016 , the Company recorded pre-tax expense related to the 2016 Restructuring as follows (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Includes charges primarily related to downsizing the Company's upstream operations in California, inclusive of wind-down costs, professional fees, fixed asset disposals and certain other restructuring charges. (2) Includes l ess than $0.1 million of corporate-related restructuring charges that have been allocated to the reportable segments. __________________________ (1) Includes charges primarily related to downsizing the Company's upstream operations in California, inclusive of wind-down costs, professional fees, fixed asset disposals and certain other restructuring charges. (2) Includes $1.2 million of corporate-related restructuring charges that have been allocated to the reportable segments. 2016 Restructuring costs related to severance, other termination benefit costs and early lease termination costs for the quarter and nine months ended September30, 2016 were $0.2 million and $8.5 million , respectively, and are reported, along with similar charges for the 2014 Restructuring, on a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . The following tables summarize all charges related to the 2016 Restructuring recognized in the quarter and nine months ended September30, 2016 as presented in their affected line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Cash charges consist of charges incurred during the period that will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. (2) All charges for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 relate to Corrosion Protection. (3) Includes charges of less than $0.1 million and $0.5 million for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, respectively, related to Infrastructure Solutions. Includes charges of zero and $0.4 million for the quarter and nine-month period ended 17 September 30, 2016, respectively, related to Corrosion Protection. Includes charges of $1.0 million and $4.9 million for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, respectively, related to Energy Services. (4) Includes charges of zero and $2.6 million for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, respectively, related to Infrastructure Solutions. Includes charges of less than $0.1 million and $3.2 million for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, respectively, related to Corrosion Protection. Includes charges of $0.2 million and $2.7 million for the quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, respectively, related to Energy Services. (5) All charges relate to the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments in Infrastructure Solutions. The following tables summarize the 2016 Restructuring activity during the first nine months of 2016 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges during the first nine months of 2016. 2014 Restructuring On October 6, 2014, the Company's board of directors approved the 2014 Restructuring to improve gross margins and profitability over the long-term by exiting low-return businesses and reducing the size and cost of the Company's overhead structure. The 2014 Restructuring generated annual operating cost savings of approximately $10.8 million , which was in-line with the Company's initial estimate, and consisted of approximately $8.4 million and $2.4 million of recognized savings within Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection, respectively. The Company achieved these cost savings by (i) exiting certain unprofitable international locations for the Company's Insituform business and consolidating the Company's worldwide Fyfe business with the Company's global Insituform business, all of which is in Infrastructure Solutions; and (ii) eliminating certain idle facilities in the Company's Bayou pipe coating operation in Louisiana, which is in Corrosion Protection. The Company has substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. Headcount reductions associated with the 2014 Restructuring totaled 86 as of September30, 2016 . Remaining headcount reductions and cash costs related to the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material. Total pre-tax 2014 Restructuring charges since inception were $60.0 million ( $44.6 million after tax) and consisted of non-cash charges totaling $48.3 million and cash charges totaling $11.7 million . The non-cash charges of $48.3 million included (i) $22.2 million related to the impairment of certain long-lived assets and definite-lived intangible assets for Bayou's pipe coating operation in Louisiana; and (ii) $26.1 million related to impairment of definite-lived intangible assets, allowances for accounts receivable, write-off of certain other current assets and long-lived assets, inventory obsolescence, as well as losses related to the sales of the Company's CIPP contracting operations in France and Switzerland, which are reported in Infrastructure Solutions. Cash charges totaling $11.7 million included employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other costs associated with the restructuring of Insituform's European and Asia-Pacific operations and Fyfe's worldwide business. While estimated remaining cash costs to be incurred in 2016 for the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material, the Company expects to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the disposal of certain entities as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. All such charges will be recognized in Infrastructure Solutions. 18 During the quarters and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , the Company recorded pre-tax (income) expense related to the 2014 Restructuring as follows (in thousands): __________________________ (1) The quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2015 include charges related to the write-off of certain other assets, including the loss on the sale of the CIPP contracting operation in France in February 2015, including the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments, professional fees and certain other restructuring charges. (2) All charges for the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 relate to Infrastructure Solutions. 2014 Restructuring costs related to severance, other termination benefit costs and early lease termination costs for the quarters ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were zero and $0.2 million , respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were $0.1 million and $1.0 million , respectively, and are reported, along with similar charges for the 2016 Restructuring, on a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . The following tables summarize all charges related to the 2014 Restructuring recognized in the quarters and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 as presented in their affected line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Cash charges consist of charges incurred during the period that will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. (2) All charges relate to Infrastructure Solutions. 19 __________________________ (1) Cash charges consist of charges incurred during the period that will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. (2) Charges in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily include the loss on sale of the CIPP contracting operation in France in February 2015, including the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments. (3) All charges relate to Infrastructure Solutions. The following tables summarize the 2014 Restructuring activity during the first nine months of 2016 and 2015 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges, either those reserved at December 31, 2015 or charged to income during the first nine months of 2016. (2) During the third quarter of 2016, the Company received payment on certain accounts receivable that were previously reserved. Additionally, the Company wrote off certain balances in costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, along with the corresponding reserves, that were deemed fully uncollectible. __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges, either those reserved at December 31, 2014 or charged to income during the first nine months of 2015. 20 4.SHARE INFORMATION Earnings per share have been calculated using the following share information: The Company excluded 162,178 and 270,190 stock options for the quarters ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and 160,191 and 280,552 stock options for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, from the diluted earnings per share calculations for the Company's common stock because they were anti-dilutive as their exercise prices were greater than the average market price of common shares for each period. 5.ASSETS HELD FOR SALE On December 31, 2015, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its 51% interest in BPPC, a pipe coatings company in Western Canada, to its joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The transaction closed effective February 1, 2016. BPPC was classified as held-for-sale at December 31, 2015. See Note 1 for further discussion of this sale. The following table provides the components of assets and liabilities held for sale (in thousands): 21 6.GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's goodwill at January 1, 2016 and September30, 2016 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first nine months of 2016, the Company recorded goodwill of $44.0 million , $2.4 million , $0.8 million and $3.4 million related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions, respectively (see Note 1). Identified Intangible Assets Identified intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first nine months of 2016, the Company recorded license agreements of $0.6 million related to the acquisition of LMJ's CIPP business (see Note 1). (2) During the first nine months of 2016, the Company recorded trademarks of $1.4 million , $0.1 million and $0.1 million related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe and Concrete Solutions, respectively (see Note 1). (3) During the first nine months of 2016, the Company recorded non-compete agreements of $0.1 million related to the acquisition of Fyfe Europe (see Note 1). (4) During the first nine months of 2016, the Company recorded customer relationships of $20.7 million , $0.3 million , $0.2 million and $1.6 million related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ's CIPP business and Concrete Solutions, respectively (see Note 1). (5) During the first nine months of 2016, the Company recorded acquired technology of $11.3 million related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions (see Note 1). 22 Amortization expense was $4.2 million and $3.5 million for the quarters ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. and $12.2 million and $9.9 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Estimated amortization expense by year is as follows (in thousands): 7.LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITY Financing Arrangements Long-term debt, term note and notes payable consisted of the following (in thousands): In October 2015, the Company entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of banks. Bank of America, N.A. served as the sole administrative agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association acted as co-syndication agents. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Securities LLC and U.S. Bank National Association acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers in the syndication of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility consists of a $300.0 million five -year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five -year term loan facility. The Company drew the entire term loan from the Credit Facility to (i) retire $344.7 million in indebtedness outstanding under the Company's prior credit facility; (ii) fund expenses associated with the Credit Facility; and (iii) for general corporate purposes. Generally, interest is charged on the principal amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus an applicable rate ranging from 1.25% to 2.25% depending on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The Company can also opt for an interest rate equal to a base rate (as defined in the credit documents) plus an applicable rate, which also is based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable LIBOR borrowing rate (LIBOR plus Company's applicable rate) as of September30, 2016 was approximately 2.85% . The Company's indebtedness at September30, 2016 consisted of $332.5 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the Credit Facility and $36.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. During 2016, the Company (i) borrowed $30.0 million on the line of credit to help fund the acquisition of Underground Solutions; (ii) borrowed $3.0 million on the line of credit to help fund a small acquisition; and (iii) had net borrowings of $3.0 million on the line of credit for both domestic and international working capital needs. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.3 million of third-party notes and bank debt at September30, 2016 . Beginning in 2016, FASB ASC 835-30, Interest Imputation of Interest ("FASB ASC 835-30") requires a change in the balance sheet presentation of debt issuance costs to be a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability instead of a deferred charge as previously reported. As such, the Company has presented unamortized loan costs of $3.6 million and $4.3 million at September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively, as a reduction to long-term debt on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets. Comparable periods have been retrospectively adjusted in accordance with FASB ASC 835-30. 23 As of September30, 2016 , the Company had $36.3 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the Credit Facility. Of such amount, $19.4 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $16.8 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. The Company's indebtedness at December31, 2015 consisted of $345.6 million outstanding from the term loan under the Credit Facility and zero on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint ventures (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.1 million of third-party notes and bank debt at December31, 2015 . Further, the Company had $1.9 million in debt listed as held for sale at December31, 2015 related to the sale of BPPC (see Note 5). At September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt was approximately $373.4 million and $349.1 million , respectively. Fair value was estimated using market rates for debt of similar risk and maturity and a discounted cash flow model, which are based on Level 3 inputs as defined in Note 12. In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrors the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement, and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. See Note 12. The Credit Facility is subject to certain financial covenants, including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. Subject to the specifically defined terms and methods of calculation as set forth in the Credit Facility's credit agreement, the financial covenant requirements, as of each quarterly reporting period end, are defined as follows: Consolidated financial leverage ratio compares consolidated funded indebtedness to Credit Facility defined income. The initial maximum amount was not to initially exceed 3.75 to 1.00. In connection with the acquisition of Underground Solutions, the Company executed a one-time election, in accordance with the Credit Agreement, to increase the consolidated financial leverage ratio to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of one year. After which, the ratio will decrease periodically at scheduled reporting periods to not more than 3.75 to 1.00 beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2017. At September30, 2016 , the Company's consolidated financial leverage ratio was 3.65 to 1.00 and, using the Credit Facility defined income, the Company had the capacity to borrow up to $37.4 million of additional debt. Consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio compares Credit Facility defined income to Credit Facility defined fixed charges with a minimum permitted ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00. At September30, 2016 , the Company's fixed charge ratio was 1.49 to 1.00. At September30, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt and financial covenants as required under the Credit Facility. 8.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND EQUITY COMPENSATION Share Repurchase Plan Effective November 2015, and in connection with the terms of the amended Credit Facility, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to $20.0 million of the Company's common stock to be made during 2015 and 2016 (the "November 2015 Program"). In March 2016, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to an additional $20.0 million of the Company's common stock during 2016 (the "March 2016 Program") following the expiration or completion of the November 2015 Program. The Company began repurchasing shares under the March 2016 Program in April 2016 immediately following completion of the November 2015 Program. In August 2016, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to an additional $10.0 million of the Company's common stock during 2016 (the "August 2016 Program") following the expiration or completion of the March 2016 Program. The Company began repurchasing shares under the August 2016 Program in October 2016 immediately following completion of the March 2016 Program. In addition to the above, the Company has authorization under the Credit Facility to repurchase up to an additional $10.0 million of the Company's common stock during 2016 in open market repurchases. Once repurchased, the Company promptly retires such shares. 24 The Company is also authorized to utilize up to $10.0 million in cash to purchase shares of the Company's common stock in each calendar year in connection with the Company's equity compensation programs for employees. The participants in the Company's equity plans may surrender shares of common stock in satisfaction of tax obligations arising from the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards under such plans and in connection with the exercise of stock option awards. The deemed price paid is the closing price of the Company's common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date that the restricted stock and restricted stock unit vests or the shares of the Company's common stock are surrendered in exchange for stock option exercises. The option holder may elect a "net, net" exercise in connection with the exercise of employee stock options such that the option holder receives a number of shares equal to (i) the built-in gain in the option shares divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise, less (ii) a number of shares equal to the taxes due upon the exercise of the option divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise. The shares of Company common stock surrendered to the Company for taxes due on the exercise of the option are deemed repurchased by the Company. During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , the Company acquired 1,908,380 shares of the Company's common stock for $35.4 million ( $18.57 average price per share) through the open market repurchase programs discussed above and 58,967 shares of the Company's common stock for $1.2 million ( $19.67 average price per share) in connection with the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units and the exercise of stock options. Once repurchased, the Company promptly retired all such shares. Equity-Based Compensation Plans In April 2016, the Company's stockholders approved the 2016 Employee Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Employee Plan"), which replaced the 2013 Employee Equity Incentive Plan. The 2016 Employee Plan provides for equity-based compensation awards, including restricted shares of common stock, performance awards, stock options, stock units and stock appreciation rights. The 2016 Employee Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which determines eligibility, timing, pricing, amount and other terms or conditions of awards. There are 1,132,739 shares of the Company's common stock registered for issuance under the 2016 Employee Plan and, at September30, 2016 , 1,126,702 shares of common stock were available for issuance. In April 2016, the Company's stockholders also approved the 2016 Director Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Director Plan"), which replaced the 2011 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan. The 2016 Director Plan provides for equity-based compensation awards, including non-qualified stock options and stock units. The Board of Directors administers the 2016 Director Plan and has the authority to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations related to the 2016 Director Plan. There are 166,456 shares of the Company's common stock registered for issuance under the 2016 Director Plan and, at September30, 2016 , 165,414 shares of common stock were available for issuance. Stock Awards Stock awards, which include shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted performance units, are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock award compensation is recorded based on the award date fair value and charged to expense ratably through the requisite service period. The forfeiture of unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted performance units causes the reversal of all previous expense to be recorded as a reduction of current period expense. 25 A summary of the stock award activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock awards was $2.1 million and $2.2 million for the quarters ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $6.7 million and $5.8 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Unrecognized pre-tax expense of $15.1 million related to stock awards is expected to be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of 1.89 years for awards outstanding at September30, 2016 . Deferred Stock Unit Awards Deferred stock units are generally awarded to directors of the Company and represent the Company's obligation to transfer one share of the Company's common stock to the grantee at a future date and are generally fully vested on the date of grant. The expense related to the issuance of deferred stock units is recorded as of the date of the award. A summary of deferred stock unit activity is as follows: Expense associated with awards of deferred stock units was immaterial for the quarters ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $1.0 million and $1.0 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Stock Options Stock options on the Company's common stock are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock options granted generally have a term of seven to ten years and an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. 26 A summary of stock option activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock option grants was zero and $0.1 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. There was no unrecognized pre-tax expense related to stock option grants at September30, 2016 . Financial data for stock option exercises are summarized as follows (in thousands): The intrinsic value calculations are based on the Company's closing stock price of $19.07 and $16.48 on September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The Company uses a binomial option-pricing model for valuation purposes to reflect the features of stock options granted. Volatility, expected term and dividend yield assumptions are based on the Company's historical experience. The risk-free rate is based on a U.S. treasury note with a maturity similar to the option grant's expected term. There were no stock options awarded during 2016 or 2015 . 9.TAXES ON INCOME The Company's effective tax rate in the quarter and nine-month period ended September30, 2016 was 30.7% and 11.4% , respectively. These effective rates were favorably impacted by a higher mix of earnings towards foreign jurisdictions, which generally have lower statutory tax rates, and the impact of certain discrete tax items relating to the 2016 Restructuring. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of 2016 was also favorably impacted by a $1.9 million benefit, or 15.3% benefit to the effective tax rate, related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. For the quarter and nine-month period ended September30, 2015 , the Company's effective tax rate was 29.1% and 31.4% , respectively. The high effective tax rate on pre-tax income was unfavorably impacted by a relatively small income tax benefit recorded on pre-tax charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and the impact of discrete tax items that were related to non-deductible restructuring charges. In addition, the rate was negatively influenced by recording no tax benefit on losses in jurisdictions where valuation allowances were recorded against deferred tax assets. 27 10.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Litigation The Company is involved in certain litigation incidental to the conduct of its business and affairs. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not believe that the outcome of any such litigation, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Contingencies In February 2016, the Company entered into a conditional agreement to settle an outstanding project dispute with a client in Infrastructure Solutions. As a result of the conditional settlement, the Company recorded a $2.7 million accrual as of December 31, 2015 in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic No. 450-20, Contingencies - Loss Contingencies ("FASB ASC 450-20"). In March 2016, the Company entered into the final agreement and wrote off a $7.5 million customer receivable, along with the related allowance for doubtful account, as of March 31, 2016. The settlement amount was paid in April 2016. In connection with the Brinderson acquisition, certain pre-acquisition matters were identified in 2014 whereby a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. The Company establishes liabilities in accordance with FASB ASC 450-20, and accordingly, recorded an accrual related to various legal, tax, employee benefit and employment matters. At December 31, 2015, the accrual related to these matters was $10.5 million . During the second quarter of 2016, the Company made payments totaling $0.4 million related to one of the above matters. Also during the second quarter of 2016, and based upon developments during the quarter and following consultation with internal and third-party legal counsel, the Company reassessed its reserve related to certain remaining matters and lowered its accrual for such matters by $1.8 million . During the third quarter of 2016, and based upon developments during the quarter and following consultation with internal and third-party legal and tax counsel, the Company reassessed its reserve related to certain remaining matters and lowered its accrual for such matters by $2.3 million . The accrual adjustments resulted in an offset to "Operating expense" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of September30, 2016 , the remaining accrual relating to these matters was $6.0 million and represented the Company's reasonable estimate of probable loss related to the Brinderson pre-acquisition matters. The Company believes it has asserted meritorious defenses to these remaining matters. Purchase Commitments The Company had no material purchase commitments at September30, 2016 . Guarantees The Company has many contracts that require the Company to indemnify the other party against loss from claims, including claims of patent or trademark infringement or other third party claims for injuries, damages or losses. The Company has agreed to indemnify its surety against losses from third-party claims of subcontractors. The Company has not previously experienced material losses under these provisions and, while there can be no assurances, currently does not anticipate any future material adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company regularly reviews its exposure under all its engagements, including performance guarantees by contractual joint ventures and indemnification of its surety. As a result of the most recent review, the Company has determined that the risk of material loss is remote under these arrangements and has not recorded a liability for these risks at September30, 2016 on its consolidated balance sheet. 11.SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has three operating segments, which are also its reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions; Corrosion Protection; and Energy Services. The Company's operating segments correspond to its management organizational structure. Each operating segment has a president who reports to the Company's chief executive officer, who is also the chief operating decision manager ("CODM"). The operating results and financial information reported by each of the segments are evaluated separately, regularly reviewed and used by the CODM to evaluate segment performance, allocate resources and determine management incentive compensation. The following disaggregated financial results have been prepared using a management approach that is consistent with the basis and manner with which management internally disaggregates financial information for the purpose of making internal operating decisions. The Company evaluates performance based on stand-alone operating income (loss), which includes acquisition-related expenses, restructuring charges and an allocation of corporate-related expenses. 28 Financial information by segment was as follows (in thousands): _______________________ (1) Results include: (i) $1.3 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.4 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals (see Note 3); and (iii) $0.3 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ, Concrete Solutions and other acquisition targets. (2) Results include (i) $1.5 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); and (ii) $(0.5) million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Schultz and other acquisition targets. (3) Results include: (i) $14.8 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.5 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals (see Note 3); (iii) $2.1 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ, Concrete Solutions and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $3.6 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. (4) Results include: (i) $10.7 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); and (ii) $0.8 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Schultz and other acquisition targets. (5) Operating income for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 includes: (i) less than $0.1 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.4 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals (see Note 3); and (iii) $0.3 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ, Concrete Solutions and other acquisition targets. Operating income for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 includes $1.4 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 includes: (i) $3.1 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.5 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals (see Note 3); (iii) $2.1 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ, Concrete Solutions and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $3.6 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. Operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 includes $7.9 million of 2014 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). (6) Operating income for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 includes $0.2 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating income for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 includes $0.5 million of acquisition related expenses. Operating loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 includes $3.9 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 includes $0.5 million of acquisition related expenses. (7) Operating income for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 includes $1.1 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). 29 Operating loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 includes $7.6 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). Operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 includes $0.3 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Schultz. The following table summarizes revenues, gross profit and operating income by geographic region (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Revenues are attributed to the country of origin for the Company's legal entities. For a significant majority of its legal entities, the country of origin relates to the country or geographic area that it services. 12.DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As a matter of policy, the Company uses derivatives for risk management purposes, and does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. From time to time, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency cash flow transactions. For cash flow hedges, a gain or loss is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations upon settlement of the hedge. All of the Company's hedges that are designated as hedges for accounting purposes were highly effective; therefore, no notable amounts of hedge ineffectiveness were recorded in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the outstanding hedged balance. During each of the quarters ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , the Company recorded less than $0.1 million as a gain on the consolidated statements of operations in the other income (expense) line item upon settlement of cash flow hedges. At September30, 2016 , the Company's cash flow hedges were in a net deferred loss position of $5.5 million due to unfavorable movements in short-term interest rates relative to the hedged position. The loss was recorded in accrued expenses and other comprehensive income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and on the foreign currency translation adjustment and derivative transactions line of the Consolidated Statements of Equity. The Company presents derivative instruments in the consolidated financial statements on a gross basis. The gross and net difference of derivative instruments are considered to be immaterial to the financial position presented in the financial statements. The Company engages in regular inter-company trade activities and receives royalty payments from its wholly-owned Canadian entities, paid in Canadian dollars, rather than the Company's functional currency, U.S. dollars. The Company utilizes foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the currency risk associated with the anticipated future payments from its Canadian entities. 30 In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrored the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated by amortizing the $262.5 million same notional amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offset a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The following table provides a summary of the fair value amounts of our derivative instruments, all of which are Level 2 inputs as defined below (in thousands): FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements ("FASB ASC 820"), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements for interim and annual reporting periods. The guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1 defined as quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments; Level 2 defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3 defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. In accordance with FASB ASC 820, the Company determined that the instruments summarized below are derived from significant observable inputs, referred to as Level 2 inputs. 31 The following tables represent assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and the basis for that measurement at September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (in thousands): The following table summarizes the Company's derivative positions at September30, 2016 : The Company had no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 inputs during the quarter ended September30, 2016 . Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods could affect the fair value estimates; however, the Company does not believe any such changes would have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value, which are based on Level 2 inputs as previously defined. 32 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is management's discussion and analysis of certain significant factors that have affected our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods included in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . We believe that certain accounting policies could potentially have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements, either because of the significance of the consolidated financial statements to which they relate or because they involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. A summary of such critical accounting policies can be found in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . Forward-Looking Information The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. We make forward-looking statements in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and on management's beliefs, assumptions, estimates and projections and are not guarantees of future events or results. When used in this report, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "plan," "intend," "may," "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred to in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 29, 2016, and in our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, including this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed may not occur. In addition, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, suggested or projected. Except as required by law, we do not assume a duty to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, review additional disclosures made by us from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please use caution and do not place reliance on forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements. Executive Summary Aegion combines innovative technologies with market leading expertise to maintain, rehabilitate, and strengthen infrastructure around the world. Since 1971, we have played a pioneering role in finding transformational solutions to rehabilitate aging infrastructure, primarily pipelines in the wastewater, water, energy, mining and refining industries. We also maintain the efficient operation of refineries and other industrial facilities and provide innovative solutions for the strengthening of buildings, bridges and other structures. We are committed to Stronger. Safer. Infrastructure . Our products and services are currently utilized in approximately 80 countries across six continents. We believe the depth and breadth of our products and services make us a leading provider for the world's infrastructure rehabilitation and protection needs. Our Segments We have three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions, Corrosion Protection and Energy Services. Our operating segments correspond to our management organizational structure. Infrastructure Solutions The majority of our work is performed in the municipal water and wastewater pipeline sector and while the pace of growth is primarily driven by government funding, the overall market needs result in a long-term stable growth opportunity for our market leading product brands, Insituform CIPP, Tyfo Fibrwrap and Fusible PVC . Corrosion Protection Investment in North America's pipeline infrastructure is required to transport product from onshore and offshore oil and gas fields to its proper end markets. Corrosion Protection has a broad portfolio of technologies and services to protect and monitor pipelines from the effects of corrosion, including cathodic protection, interior pipe linings, interior and exterior pipe coatings and insulation as well as an increasing offering of inspection and repair capabilities. We provide solutions to customers to enhance the safety, environmental integrity, reliability and compliance of their pipelines in the oil and gas market. Energy Services With the continued development of conventional oil and gas reserves, North America will likely have competitive prices for refinery and petrochemical feedstocks. Energy Services offers a unique value proposition based on its world class safety and labor productivity programs, which allow us to provide cost effective 33 maintenance, turnaround and construction services at our customers' refineries, petrochemical and other industrial facilities. Strategic Initiatives We are committed to being a valued partner to our customers. We are focused on expanding those relationships by improving execution while also developing or acquiring innovative technologies and comprehensive services to enhance our capabilities to solve complex infrastructure problems. We are pursuing three strategic initiatives: Municipal Pipeline Rehabilitation The fundamental driver in the global municipal pipeline rehabilitation market is the growing gap between the need and current spend. While the spending gap is not expected to close any time soon, the increasing need for pipeline rehabilitation supports a long-term sustainable market for the technologies and services offered by our Infrastructure Solutions segment. We are committed to maintaining our market leadership position in the rehabilitation of wastewater pipelines in North America using our cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP") technology, the largest source of Aegion's consolidated revenues. We are also seeking to create a diverse portfolio of trenchless technologies to rehabilitate aging and damaged municipal pipelines. The focus today is growing our presence in the rehabilitation of pressure pipelines through both internal development and acquisitions. On February 18, 2016, we acquired Underground Solutions, Inc., adding its patented Fusible PVC pipe technology to our portfolio, which includes Insituform CIPP, Tyfo Fibrwrap fiber-reinforce polymer and Tite Liner high-density polyethylene liner. Our international strategy is to use a blend of third-party product sales and CIPP contract installation operations in select markets. A key to the success of this strategy is a continuing focus on improving productivity to reduce costs and increase efficiencies across the entire value chain from engineering, manufacturing and installation of our technology-based solutions. Midstream Pipeline Integrity Management There are over one million miles of regulated pipelines in North America, which remains the safest and most cost effective mode of oil and gas transmission. Within the Corrosion Protection segment, we design and install cathodic protection systems to help prevent pipeline corrosion, which represents a majority of the revenues and profits for the segment. We also provide inspection services to monitor these systems and detect early signs of corrosion. We are making investments to create an asset integrity management program designed to increase the efficiency and accuracy of the pipeline corrosion assessment data we collect and upgrade how we share this valuable information with customers. We seek to improve customer regulatory compliance and add new services in the areas of data validation, advanced analytics and predictive maintenance. Downstream Refining and Industrial Facility Maintenance Through our Energy Services segment, we have long-term relationships with refinery and industrial customers on the United States West Coast. Over 75 percent of our downstream activities relate to the maintenance of piping assets. Our objective is to leverage those relationships to expand the services we provide in mechanical maintenance, electrical and instrumentation, small capital construction and shutdown ("turnaround") maintenance activity. There are opportunities in other industries on the West Coast such as pipelines and terminals, chemicals, industrial gas and power to leverage our experience in maintenance and construction services. Business Outlook For the remainder of 2016, we anticipate favorable and stable end markets across a majority of our business, which includes the municipal water and wastewater and commercial infrastructure markets, served by Infrastructure Solutions, the domestic midstream pipeline market, served by Corrosion Protection, and the United States West Coast downstream refining market, served by Energy Services. Infrastructure Solutions remains focused on maintaining its leadership position by improving execution with our crew-based installation methods as well as improving the quality and lowering the costs to produce our manufactured products used to rehabilitate aging and damaged water and wastewater pipelines globally, but in particular in the North American market. The acquisition of Underground Solutions in February 2016 represents a strategic step to expand in the growing North America trenchless pressure pipe rehabilitation market. Underground Solutions' contributions in 2016 are expected to be accretive to earnings per share and remain on track to meet this objective. 2016 has been a more challenging year in the upstream energy markets than 2015 as a result of the persistent low oil price environment. In January 2016, we decided to reduce our exposure in high-cost oil extraction regions in Canada and Central California. As a result, we expect an approximate $100 million reduction in annual revenues in those two regions. These actions reduced our total upstream exposure to between 5% and 10% of expected consolidated 2016 revenues, down from 15% to 20% in 2014. We effectively completed a restructuring plan in the second quarter of 2016 to reduce annual costs across the entire organization by approximately $17.0 million (most of which is to be realized in 2016), primarily to right-size the Energy Services and Corrosion Protection segments to better compete in the energy markets. 34 The Corrosion Protection segment is experiencing a more severe impact in 2016 from the adverse energy markets than it did in 2015 due to reduced market activity, increased project timing variability and price competition. The midstream pipeline market has mostly maintained investment in the United States, while the Canadian energy market overall is experiencing added market pressure in 2016. In the fall of 2015, we were awarded a large offshore, deep-water, pipe coating and insulation contract, with a multi-year value of more than $130 million. We began pipe coating and insulation applications for this project in the fourth quarter of 2016, and believe the project has the potential to significantly offset the effects of the challenging market conditions expected in the final quarter of the year. 2016 financial performance for the segment is expected to be below operating results in 2015 due to weakness in Canada, made worse by delays in scheduled work releases after the wild fires in Western Canada during the second quarter of 2016, difficult market conditions in the upstream portion of the energy markets and the absence of the revenue and profit contribution from the Canadian pipe coating JV sold in February of 2016. The Energy Services segment will rely more on the downstream and industrial markets as a result of actions taken to reduce our upstream exposure. Market conditions in 2016 support a favorable year for refinery maintenance and other facility services on the United States West Coast, which included the award to Energy Services in June 2016 of a new $35 million, five-year maintenance contract with a refining customer in the Pacific Northwest. While we benefited in 2015 from certain one-time events that increased billable maintenance hours, we have seen fewer turnaround projects from our customers in 2016 compared to 2015. We had a very challenging first half of 2016 as more time was needed to downsize the upstream operations and we incurred cost overruns on discreet lump sum projects. The restructuring efforts were effectively completed as of the end of the second quarter of 2016 and we believe the losses on certain lump sum projects are behind us. As a result, we delivered sequential improvement during the third quarter, which supports our expectation for additional sequential improvement in operating results in the fourth quarter of 2016. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures Acquisitions Our recent acquisition strategy has focused on the world's aging infrastructure and the investment needed to maintain infrastructure in North America and overseas. During 2016, we targeted strategic acquisitions in the infrastructure sector by: i. adding patented Fusible PVC pipe technology to our pressure pipe rehabilitation portfolio through the acquisition of Underground Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiary, Underground Solutions Technologies Group, Inc. (collectively, "Underground Solutions"); ii. expanding our CIPP presence in Europe by acquiring the CIPP contracting operations of Leif M. Jensen A/S ("LMJ"), a Danish company and the Insituform licensee in Denmark since 2011; iii. gaining worldwide rights to market, manufacture and install the patented Tyfo Fibrwrap FRP technology by acquiring the operations and territories of Fyfe Europe S.A. and related companies ("Fyfe Europe"); and iv. expanding our fiber reinforced polymer ("FRP") presence in Asia through the acquisition of Concrete Solutions Limited ("CSL") and Building Chemical Supplies Limited ("BCS"), two New Zealand-based companies and a Fibrwrap certified applicator in New Zealand for a number of years (collectively, "Concrete Solutions" ). See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for additional information and disclosures regarding our acquisitions. 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, our board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce our exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. As part of management's ongoing assessment of our energy-related businesses, management determined that the persistent low price of oil is expected to create market challenges for the foreseeable future, including reduced customer spending in 2016. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reposition Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reduce Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting our interest in Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), our Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-size Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reduce corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring is expected to reduce consolidated annual costs by approximately $17.0 million . We reduced headcount by approximately 960 employees, or 15.5% of our total workforce as of December 31, 2015, and expect to record pre-tax charges, most of which are cash charges, of approximately $15.5 million , which is an increase from our previous estimate of $15.0 million . Estimated remaining costs to be incurred for the 2016 Restructuring are approximately $0.7 million and are expected to be incurred in the fourth quarter of 2016, primarily in Corrosion Protection. The estimated remaining costs consist primarily of cash charges related to office closures, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs. Total pre-tax restructuring charges during the first nine months of 2016 were $14.8 35 million ( $9.7 million after tax), most of which were cash charges, and consisted primarily of employee severance and benefits, early lease termination other costs associated with the restructuring efforts as described above. 2014 Restructuring On October 6, 2014, our board of directors approved the 2014 Restructuring to improve gross margins and profitability over the long-term by exiting low-return markets and reducing the size and cost of our overhead structure. The 2014 Restructuring generated annual operating cost savings of approximately $10.8 million , which was in-line with our initial estimate, and consisted of approximately $8.4 million and $2.4 million of recognized savings within Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection, respectively. We achieved these cost savings by (i) exiting certain unprofitable international locations for our Insituform business and consolidating our worldwide Fyfe business with the global Insituform business, all of which is in Infrastructure Solutions; and (ii) eliminating certain idle facilities in our Bayou pipe coating operation in Louisiana, which is in Corrosion Protection. We have substantially completed all of the aforementioned objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. Total headcount reductions were 86 as of September 30, 2016. Remaining headcount reductions and cash costs related to the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material. We expect to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the restructured locations as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. All such charges will be recognized in Infrastructure Solutions. Results of Operations Quarters and Nine-Month Periods Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 Overview Consolidated Results Key financial data for consolidated operations was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. Revenues Revenues decrease d $48.1 million , or 13.5% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a $30.7 million decline in Energy Services resulting from the effects of lower oil 36 prices, which presented challenging market conditions leading to our decision to downsize our exposure to the upstream energy market, and a decrease in turnaround activity and non-recurring maintenance cleanup services. Revenues in Corrosion Protection decreased $26.3 million mainly due to a decrease in upstream project activity attributable to a decline in client spending in upstream crude oil projects as well as a revenue decline associated with the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest on February 1, 2016. Revenues in Infrastructure Solutions increased $9.0 million primarily due to an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity in North America and the revenue contribution from Underground Solutions, which was acquired on February 18, 2016, partially offset by a decrease in FRP project activity in North America. Revenues decreased $102.7 million , or 10.2% , in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a $68.9 million decline in Energy Services caused by a decline in upstream project activities, as noted above, and a $47.2 million decline in Corrosion Protection mainly related to a decrease in Canadian upstream, and to a lesser extent midstream, project activity, including the revenue decline related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating joint venture interest, a decrease in domestic upstream project activity and the completion of certain large international projects. Revenues in Infrastructure Solutions increased $13.4 million due primarily to our acquisition of Underground Solutions and an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity in North America, partially offset by a decrease in FRP project activity in North America and international CIPP contracting installation services activity. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit decrease d $10.8 million , or 14.0% , and gross profit margin decline d 10 basis points in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.1 million and $1.7 million in the third quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively. Excluding restructuring charges, gross profit decrease d $12.3 million , or 15.7% , and gross profit margin decline d 60 basis points in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to a $9.2 million decrease in Corrosion Protection and a $3.7 million decrease in Energy Services driven by declines in revenues, as noted above. Gross profit in Infrastructure Solutions increased $2.1 million largely driven by an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity in North America and the contribution from Underground Solutions, partially offset by a decrease in revenues in our FRP business in North America. Gross profit margin declined primarily due to the negative impacts from challenging upstream energy market conditions in Corrosion Protection and decreased labor and equipment utilization in our international CIPP operations in Infrastructure Solutions, partially offset by the higher margin contribution from Infrastructure Solutions' Underground Solutions business and improved margins in Energy Services. Gross profit decrease d $26.4 million , or 12.7% , and gross profit margin decline d 60 basis points in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges totaling $0.2 million and $2.6 million in the first nine months of 2016 and 2015, respectively. Excluding restructuring charges, gross profit decrease d $28.9 million , or 13.7% , and gross profit margin decline d 80 basis points in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015. The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to a $17.6 million decrease in Corrosion Protection and a $12.2 million decrease in Energy Services primarily due to declines in revenues, as noted above, and added costs associated with certain international projects in Corrosion Protection. Gross profit in Infrastructure Solutions increased $3.4 million largely driven by an increase in revenues, as noted above. Gross profit margin declined primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in gross profit margin in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Operating Expenses Operating expenses decrease d $6.3 million , or 12.2% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.6 million and expense reversals of $0.4 million in the third quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $7.3 million , or 14.0% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to our restructuring efforts, which generated cost savings mainly in Energy Services' upstream operation and Corrosion Protection's upstream and midstream operations . Included in the decrease in operating expenses was an offset to operating expenses related to decreases in reserves for certain Brinderson pre-acquisition matters and a decrease related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating operation. Partially offsetting the decrease in operating expenses was an increase in Infrastructure Solutions primarily due to the acquisition of Underground Solutions. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 14.7% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 14.5% in the third quarter of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 14.5% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 14.6% in the third quarter of 2015 . In the first nine months of 2016 , operating expenses decrease d $11.2 million , or 7.1% , compared to the first nine months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $5.4 million and $4.2 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $12.3 million , or 8.0% , in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015. The changes in operating expenses in the first nine months of 37 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating expenses in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.3% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 15.8% in the first nine months of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 15.7% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 15.3% in the first nine months of 2015. Consolidated Net Income Consolidated net income was $12.1 million in the third quarter of 2016 , a decrease of $2.7 million , or 18.2% , from $14.8 million in the third quarter of 2015 . Excluding the following pre-tax items: (i) 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring charges of $0.9 million and $1.5 million in the third quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively; and (ii) acquisition-related expenses of $0.3 million and $0.5 million in the third quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively; consolidated net income was $12.7 million in the third quarter of 2016, a decrease of $3.5 million , or 21.4% , from consolidated net income of $16.2 million in the third quarter of 2015. The decrease in consolidated net income, excluding the items noted above, was primarily due to declining revenues and gross profit related to the negative impacts from the low oil price environment in Energy Services and Corrosion Protection, partially offset by an increase in revenues and gross profit in Infrastructure Solutions. Operating expenses favorably impacted consolidated net income as a result of operating expense savings associated with our restructuring efforts, partially offset by Underground Solutions and decreases in reserves for certain Brinderson pre-acquisition matters noted above. Consolidated net income in the third quarter of 2016, as compared to the third quarter of 2015, was also negatively impacted by an increase in interest expense due to higher borrowing costs and higher debt balances. Consolidated net income was $11.7 million in the first nine months of 2016 , a decrease of $13.1 million , or 52.8% , from $24.8 million in the first nine months of 2015 . Excluding the following pre-tax items: (i) 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring charges of $14.3 million and $10.7 million in the first nine months of 2016 and 2015, respectively; (ii) inventory step up costs related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions of $3.6 million in the first nine months of 2016; and (iii) acquisition-related expenses of $2.1 million and $0.8 million in the first nine months of 2016 and 2015, respectively; consolidated net income was $25.1 million in the first nine months of 2016, a decrease of $9.0 million , or 26.5% , from consolidated net income of $34.1 million in the first nine months of 2015. The changes in consolidated net income in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 were due primarily to the same factors, as noted above, for the changes in consolidated net income in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Consolidated net income in the first nine months of 2016, as compared to the first nine months of 2015, also benefited from the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. Contract Backlog Contract backlog is our expectation of revenues to be generated from received, signed and uncompleted contracts, the cancellation of which is not anticipated at the time of reporting. We assume that these signed contracts are funded. For government or municipal contracts, our customers generally obtain funding through local budgets or pre-approved bond financing. We have not undertaken a process to verify funding status of these contracts and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate what portion, if any, of our contracts in backlog have not been funded. However, we have little history of signed contracts being canceled due to the lack of funding. Contract backlog excludes any term contract amounts for which there are not specific and determinable work releases or values beyond a renewal date in the forward 12-month period. Projects where we have been advised that we are the low bidder, but have not formally been awarded the contract, are not included. Although backlog represents only those contracts and Master Service Agreements ("MSAs") that are considered to be firm, there can be no assurance that cancellation or scope adjustments will not occur with respect to such contracts. The following table sets forth our consolidated backlog by segment (in millions): __________________________ (1) September 30, 2016, June 30, 2016, December 31, 2015 and September 30, 2015 included backlog from restructured entities of zero, zero, $0.5 million and $2.3 million, respectively. 38 (2) September 30, 2016, June 30, 2016, December 31, 2015 and September 30, 2015 included backlog of $28.9 million, $31.3 million, $41.1 million and $55.0 million, respectively, related to operations that were downsized in the first quarter of 2016. (3) Represents expected unrecognized revenues to be realized under long-term MSAs and other signed contracts. If the remaining term of these arrangements exceeds 12 months, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such arrangements included in backlog are limited to only the next 12 months of expected revenues. Within our Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection segments, certain contracts are performed through our variable interest entities, in which we own a controlling portion of the entity. As of September30, 2016 , 1.7% and 31.3% of our Infrastructure Solutions backlog and Corrosion Protection backlog, respectively, related to these variable interest entities. A substantial majority of our contracts in these two segments are fixed price contracts with individual private businesses and municipal and federal government entities across the world. Energy Services, on the other hand, generally enters into cost reimbursable contracts that are based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. Infrastructure Solutions Segment Key financial data for Infrastructure Solutions was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. "N/M" represents not meaningful. Revenues Revenues in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $9.0 million , or 6.0% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . Infrastructure Solutions' revenues of $158.6 million in the third quarter of 2016 was a record for the segment. As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we exited certain foreign operations, primarily in 2015. Excluding revenues from restructured operations, revenues in Infrastructure Solutions increased $10.6 million, or 7.0%, in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily driven by record revenues in our North American CIPP operation and revenues from Underground Solutions, which was acquired in February 2016. Partially offsetting the increase was a decline in FRP project activity in North America, primarily due to the lack in 2016 of a large industrial project that was performed and completed in 2015, and a decrease in revenues in our European and Asia-Pacific operations. 39 Revenues increased $13.4 million , or 3.2% , in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . Excluding revenues from restructured operations, revenues increased $20.2 million, or 4.9%, in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . The change in revenues in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 was primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in revenues in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $2.1 million , or 5.6% , and gross profit margin decline d 10 basis points in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges totaling $1.7 million in the third quarter of 2015 related to costs associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding 2014 Restructuring charges, gross profit increase d $0.5 million , or 1.2% , and gross profit margin decline d 120 basis points in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to an increase in our North American operation which benefited from an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity and a contribution in gross profit from Underground Solutions, partially offset by a decline in FRP project activity in North America and a decrease in gross profit in our European and Asia-Pacific operations primarily related to delays in project timing. Gross profit margin declined mainly as a result of lower project activity in our North American FRP business and, to a lesser extent, lower labor and equipment utilization in our European and Asia-Pacific CIPP operations. Partially offsetting the decline in gross profit margin was an increase related to higher margin project activity in Underground Solutions. Gross profit increase d $3.4 million , or 3.2% , and gross profit margin remained consistent in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized charges totaling $2.6 million in the first nine months of 2015, as noted above. Excluding 2014 Restructuring charges, gross profit increase d $0.8 million , or 0.7% , and gross profit margin decline d 60 basis points in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . The changes in gross profit and gross profit margin were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in gross profit and gross profit margin in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015, as discussed above. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Infrastructure Solutions decrease d $0.4 million , or 1.6% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized expense reversals of $0.1 million in the third quarter of 2016 related to cost reduction efforts. As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized expense reversals of $0.4 million in the third quarters of 2016 and 2015, respectively, associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $0.4 million , or 1.7% . The decrease was primarily due to to efficiencies gained as part of our restructuring efforts. Partially offsetting the decrease in operating expenses was an increase primarily due to a $2.7 million operating expense contribution from Underground Solutions. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 13.7% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 14.7% in the third quarter of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 13.9% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 15.0% in the third quarter of 2015 . Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased primarily due to efficiencies gained as part of our restructuring efforts. Operating expenses decrease d $2.0 million , or 2.9% , in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.5 million in the first nine months of 2016 related to cost reduction efforts. As part of the 2014 Restructuring, we recognized expense reversals of $0.5 million and charges of $4.2 million in the first nine month of 2016 and 2015 , respectively, associated with the exiting of certain foreign locations. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses increased $2.2 million , or 3.4% . The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Underground Solutions, which contributed $7.0 million in operating expenses in the first nine months of 2016. Partially offsetting the increase in operating expenses were decreases primarily related to efficiencies gained as part of our restructuring efforts. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 15.5% for the first nine months of 2016 compared to 16.5% in the first nine months of 2015 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 15.5% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 15.5% in the first nine months of 2015 . Operating Income and Operating Margin Operating income in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $2.3 million , or 14.3% , to $18.6 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to $16.3 million in the third quarter of 2015 . Operating margin improved 80 basis points to 11.7% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 10.9% in the third quarter of 2015 . As part of our restructuring efforts, we recognized charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and 2016 Restructuring of $0.4 million in the third quarter of 2016 and charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $1.4 million in the third quarter of 2015 . Additionally, we incurred $0.3 million in acquisition-related expenses in the third quarter of 2016. Excluding restructuring charges and acquisition-related expenses, operating income increase d $0.9 million , or 4.9% , to $18.5 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to $17.6 million in the third quarter of 40 2015 . The increase in operating income in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 was primarily due to an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity in North America and the contribution from Underground Solutions, partially offset by a decline in FRP project activity in North America. Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges and acquisition-related expenses, decline d 10 basis points to 11.7% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 11.8% in the third quarter of 2015 . Operating income increased $1.7 million , or 4.9% , to $37.4 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to $35.7 million in the first nine months of 2015 . Operating margin increased 10 basis points to 8.6% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 8.5% in the first nine months of 2015 . As part of our restructuring efforts, we recognized charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and 2016 Restructuring of $2.6 million in the first nine months of 2016 and charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $7.9 million in the first nine months of 2015. As a result of acquisition activity in 2016, we incurred an expense of $3.6 million related to the recognition of inventory step up and $2.1 million in acquisition-related expenses in the first nine months of 2016. Excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, operating income increased $2.1 million , or 4.9% , to $45.7 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to $43.6 million in the first nine months of 2015 . Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, increased 20 basis points to 10.5% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 10.3% in the first nine months of 2015 . Operating income was impacted primarily due to the same factors as noted above for the changes in operating income in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Corrosion Protection Segment Key financial data for Corrosion Protection was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. "N/M" represents not meaningful. Revenues Revenues in Corrosion Protection decrease d $26.3 million , or 21.7% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a decrease in upstream project activity in our domestic pipe coating operation and a decrease in project activity driven by the completion of a large project in South America in our industrial linings and coating services operations. Included in the decrease in revenues was a $7.5 million decline related to the 41 sale of our Canadian pipe coating operation, in the first quarter of 2016. Revenues in the third quarter of 2016 in our cathodic protection operation were similar to the prior year period. Revenues decrease d $47.2 million , or 14.3% , in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a $35.3 million decline in revenues generated from our Canadian operations, which included an $18.3 million decline related to the sale of the Canadian pipe coating operation, as weak Canadian market conditions negatively impacted our cathodic protection and industrial linings operations mainly in the first half of 2016. Also contributing to the decrease in revenues was a decline in project activities in the Middle East in our cathodic protection and industrial linings operations. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues was an increase primarily related to increased project activity in our domestic and European cathodic protection operations, our domestic industrial linings operation and our coating services operation in the Middle East. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Corrosion Protection decrease d $9.2 million , or 33.4% , and gross profit margin decline d 340 basis points in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.1 million in the third quarter of 2016 related to the downsizing of certain upstream and midstream operations. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, gross profit decreased $9.1 million, or 32.9%, and gross profit margin decreased 320 basis points in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Gross profit decreased primarily due to a decline in revenues in our domestic pipe coating operation, our industrial linings operation and our coating services operation, as noted above, as well as increased costs on certain coating services projects in the Middle East. The sale of our Canadian pipe coating operation, resulted in a $1.4 million decline in gross profit. Partially offsetting the decrease in gross profit was an increase in project activity in our domestic industrial linings operation. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily due to added costs on certain field coating services projects in the Middle East and lower labor and equipment utilization related to declining revenues in our domestic pipe coating and coating services operations, partially offset by improved gross profit margins in our domestic industrial linings operation. Gross profit and gross profit margin in the third quarter of 2016 in our cathodic protection operation declined slightly from the prior year period. Gross profit decrease d $17.6 million , or 25.1% , and gross profit margin decline d 270 basis points in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.2 million in the first nine months of 2016 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, gross profit decreased $17.4 million, or 24.8%, and gross profit margin decreased 260 basis points in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015. The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to a $9.7 million decline in gross profit generated from our Canadian operations, which included a $3.4 million decline related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating operation, as project activity in Canada declined sharply in the first half of 2016, as noted above. Also contributing to the decrease in gross profit were added costs on certain field coating services and industrial linings projects in the Middle East and South America, partially offset by an increase in gross profit in our domestic cathodic protection and industrial linings operations due to increased project activity and improved efficiencies primarily in our cathodic protection operation. The changes in gross profit margin in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in gross profit margin in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Corrosion Protection decrease d $2.4 million , or 11.9% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . The decrease in operating expenses was primarily due to expense savings generated from our 2016 Restructuring efforts, as recognized in our cathodic protection, industrial linings and pipe coating operations. Operating expenses also decreased $0.4 million from the sale of our Canadian pipe coating operation. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 18.8% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 16.7% in the third quarter of 2015 . Operating expenses decrease d $4.5 million , or 7.3% , in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015. As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.4 million in the first nine months of 2016 related to the downsizing of certain midstream and upstream operations. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decreased $4.9 million, or 8.0%, primarily due to cost savings associated with our 2016 Restructuring, as noted above. Also contributing to the decrease in operating expenses were $1.2 million related to the sale of our Canadian pipe coating operation and $0.6 million related to a reserve for doubtful accounts recorded in the second quarter of 2015 for a certain long-dated receivable in dispute with a customer in our coating services operation. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 20.2% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 18.7% in the first nine months of 2015. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 20.1% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 18.7% in the first nine months of 2015. 42 Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income in Corrosion Protection decrease d $6.4 million , or 92.6% , to $0.5 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to $6.9 million in the third quarter of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 520 basis points to 0.5% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 5.7% in the third quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $0.2 million in the third quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income decrease d $6.2 million , or 90.0% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 and operating margin decline d 500 basis points to 0.7% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 5.7% in the third quarter of 2015 . The decreases in operating income and operating margin were mainly due to declining revenues and gross profit, most of which was driven by the completion of large, industrial linings and coating services projects in South America, a decrease in project activity in our domestic pipe coating operation and the sale of our Canadian pipe coating operation. Operating income and operating margin also declined as a result of increased costs on certain field coating services fixed fee projects in the Middle East. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase from operating expense savings primarily related to our 2016 Restructuring efforts which were recognized in our cathodic protection operation, our industrial linings operation and our pipe coating operation. Operating income (loss) decreased $15.9 million , or 191.6% , to a loss of $7.6 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to income of $8.3 million in the first nine months of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 520 basis points to (2.7)% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 2.5% in the first nine months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $3.9 million in first nine months of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income (loss) decreased $12.1 million, or 145.1%, in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 and operating margin declined 380 basis points to (1.3)% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 2.5% in the first nine months of 2015. The decreases in operating income (loss) and operating margin were primarily due to declining revenues and gross profit related to a decline in project activity in our Canadian operations as well as a decline in project activity in the Middle East in our cathodic protection and industrial linings operations. Also contributing to the decreases were added costs on certain field coating services and industrial linings fixed fee projects in the Middle East and South America and lower labor and equipment utilization related to declining revenues in our domestic pipe coating and coating services operations. Operating expense savings, as noted above, partially offset the declines in operating income (loss) and operating margin. Energy Services Segment Key financial data for Energy Services was as follows: 43 ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. "N/M" represents not meaningful. Revenues Revenues in Energy Services decrease d $30.7 million , or 35.9% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . The decrease was due to a revenue decline of $17.3 million in our upstream operation, located primarily in Central California, as we significantly reduced our upstream operation in response to challenging upstream energy market conditions. Also contributing to the decrease in revenues was a decline of $13.4 million in our downstream operation as turnaround and extraordinary refinery clean-up activities declined. Revenues in the third quarter of 2016 from day-to-day refinery maintenance services were slightly improved over the prior year period. Revenues decrease d $68.9 million , or 27.3% , in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . The decrease was due to a $52.3 million revenue decline in our upstream operation, primarily for the reason noted above, and a $16.6 million revenue decline in our downstream operation, primarily due to reduced refinery clean-up service activities. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Energy Services decrease d $3.7 million , or 33.5% , but gross profit margin improve d 40 basis points in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to reduced revenues in our upstream and downstream operations, as noted above. Gross profit margin improved mainly as a result of higher utilization rates as we completed our restructuring activities in our upstream operation. Partially offsetting the increase in gross profit margin was a decline in higher margin turnaround and refinery clean-up services activities in our downstream operation. Gross profit decrease d $12.2 million , or 38.2% , and gross profit margin decline d 190 basis points in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . The decreases in gross profit and gross profit margin were primarily due to declining revenues, as noted above, and cost overruns mainly on certain isolated lump sum construction projects in the first half of 2016. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Energy Services decreased $3.5 million , or 37.8% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $1.0 million in the third quarter of 2016 primarily related to wind-down and other restructuring-related costs to downsize our upstream operation. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $4.5 million , or 48.2% , primarily due to controlled spending efforts in response to recent market challenges and as part of our savings initiatives related to the restructuring as well as a $2.3 million decrease in reserves for certain Brinderson pre-acquisition matters. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 10.5% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 10.9% in the third quarter of 2015 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 8.8% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 10.9% in the third quarter of 2015 . Operating expenses in the first nine months of 2016 decreased $4.7 million , or 17.3 %, compared to the first nine months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $4.9 million in the first nine months of 2016 primarily related to wind-down and other restructuring-related costs to downsize our upstream operation. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses decrease d $9.6 million , or 35.4% , primarily due to controlled spending efforts as well as reserve decreases totaling $4.1 million for certain Brinderson pre-acquisition matters and a $0.7 million expense in the second quarter of 2015 for severance related costs due to organizational leadership changes. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 12.2% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 10.7% in the first nine months of 2015. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.5% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 10.7% in the first nine months of 2015 . Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income in Energy Services decrease d $0.4 million , or 21.0% , to $1.4 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to $1.8 million in the third quarter of 2015 . Operating margin improve d 50 basis points to 2.6% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 2.1% in the third quarter of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $1.1 million in the third quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits, early lease termination and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income increase d $0.8 million , or 42.5% , in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 and operating margin improve d 260 basis points to 4.7% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 2.1% in the third quarter of 2015 . The increases in operating income and operating margin were primarily due to operating expense savings associated with controlled spending efforts in response to recent market challenges 44 and as part of our 2016 Restructuring, as well as a reduction in reserves related to certain Brinderson pre-acquisition matters. Partially offsetting the increases were decreases in revenues and related impacts to gross profit and gross profit margins. Operating income (loss) decrease d $9.9 million , or 216.4% , to a loss of $5.3 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to income of $4.6 million in the first nine months of 2015 . Operating margin decline d 470 basis points to (2.9)% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 1.8% in the first nine months of 2015 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $7.6 million in the first nine months of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits, early lease termination and other restructuring costs. Additionally, we incurred $0.3 million in acquisition-related expenses in the first nine months of 2015 related to the purchase of Schultz. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges and acquisition-related expenses, operating income (loss) decrease d $2.6 million , or 53.5% , in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 and operating margin decline d 70 basis points to 1.2% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 1.9% in the first nine months of 2015 . The changes in operating income (loss) and operating margin were due primarily to the same factors as noted above for the changes in operating income (loss) and operating margin in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income and Expense Interest income increase d less than $0.1 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher U.S. cash balances during the current year. Interest expense increase d $0.7 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher borrowing costs under our new Credit Facility, higher debt balances resulting from the February 2016 acquisition of Underground Solutions and an increase in amortized loan fees. Interest income decrease d less than $0.1 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the prior year period. Interest expense increase d $1.7 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher borrowing costs under our new Credit Facility, higher debt balances resulting from the February 2016 acquisition of Underground Solutions and an increase in amortized loan fees. Other Income (Expense) Other income was $0.3 million in the quarter ended September30, 2016 and primarily related to foreign currency exchange gains on revalued assets and liabilities. For the third quarter of 2015, other expense was $0.4 million and consisted primarily of franchise taxes, net losses on the sale of fixed assets and bank fees. Other expense was $1.2 million in the nine months ended September30, 2016 and primarily related to foreign currency exchange losses on revalued assets and liabilities. For the first nine months of 2015, other expense was $2.4 million , primarily due to foreign currency exchange losses on revalued assets and liabilities and the $2.8 million loss recognized on the sale of Video Injection - Insituform SAS during the first quarter of 2015, partially offset by income of $0.8 million recorded in the second quarter of 2015 related to a $1.0 million settlement of escrow claims for the acquisition of CRTS, Inc. (as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report). Additionally, we recorded gains of approximately $0.7 million during the second quarter of 2015 on the sale of certain fixed assets related to our restructured entities. Taxes on Income Taxes on income decrease d $1.0 million during the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 . Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 30.7% in the quarter ended September30, 2016 and 29.1% in the quarter ended September30, 2015 . The effective tax rate in the quarter ended September30, 2016 was unfavorably impacted by a lower mix of earnings towards foreign jurisdictions, which generally have lower statutory tax rates, partially offset by the impact of certain discrete tax items relating to the 2016 Restructuring. The effective tax rate in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 was unfavorably impacted by a relatively small income tax benefit recorded on pre-tax charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and the impact of discrete tax items related to non-deductible restructuring charges. Taxes on income decrease d $10.2 million during the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 . Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 11.4% in the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 31.4% in the nine months ended September30, 2015 . The effective tax rate in the nine months ended September30, 2016 was impacted by the same factors impacting the effective tax rate in the third quarter of 2016, and a $1.9 million benefit, or 15.3% benefit to the effective tax rate, related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits recorded in the first quarter of 2016. The effective tax rate in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was unfavorably impacted by the same factors impacting the effective tax rate in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 described above. 45 Non-controlling Interests Losses attributable to non-controlling interests were $0.3 million and $0.7 million in the quarter and nine months ended September30, 2016 , respectively, while income attributable to non-controlling interests was $0.5 million and $0.7 million in the quarter and nine months ended September30, 2015 , respectively. In the third quarter and first nine months of 2016, losses from our joint ventures in Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Louisiana were partially offset by profitability from our joint venture in Oman. In the third quarter and first nine months of 2015, profitability from our joint ventures in Oman and Canada was partially offset by losses from our joint venture in Mexico and our insulation coating joint venture in Louisiana, which experienced project inefficiencies and lower operational margins. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents Restricted cash held in escrow primarily relates to funds reserved for legal requirements, deposits made in lieu of retention on specific projects performed for municipalities and state agencies, or advance customer payments and compensating balances for bank undertakings in Europe. Changes in restricted cash flows are reported in the consolidated statements of cash flows based on the nature of the restriction. Sources and Uses of Cash We expect the principal operational use of funds for the foreseeable future will be for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, debt service and share repurchases. During the first nine months of 2016, capital expenditures were primarily related to the construction of the new plant to be utilized for the large pipe coating and insulation project in our Corrosion Protection segment. Additionally, capital expenditures were also related to growth and maintenance capital in our Infrastructure Solutions operations. For the full year of 2016, we expect a comparable level of capital expenditures compared to 2015, with slightly increased levels to complete the pipe-coating plant and support growth of our Infrastructure Solutions business, partially offset by decreased levels in certain of our Corrosion Protection and Energy Services operations as we minimize spending in response to our 2016 Restructuring efforts. As part of our 2016 Restructuring, we incurred $14.0 million in cash charges during the first nine months of 2016 related to employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and early lease termination costs as we reposition our Energy Services' upstream operations in California, right-size Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively, and reduce corporate and other operating costs. We estimate our remaining cash costs in 2016 to be approximately $0.7 million related to these activities. These actions, however, are expected to reduce future consolidated annual costs by approximately $17.0 million , most of which is expected to be realized in 2016, primarily through headcount reductions and office closures. As part of our 2014 Restructuring, we incurred less than $0.1 million in cash charges during the first nine months of 2016 related to severance and benefits costs and other restructuring costs associated with exiting certain foreign locations. While estimated remaining cash costs to be incurred in 2016 for the 2014 Restructuring are not expected to be material, we expect to incur additional non-cash charges in 2016, primarily related to the potential release of cumulative currency translation adjustments resulting from the disposal of certain entities as well as the foreign currency impact from settlement of inter-company loans. At September30, 2016 , our cash balances were located worldwide for working capital and support needs. Given the breadth of our international operations, approximately $48.3 million, or 42.6%, of our cash was denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar as of September30, 2016 . We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences or be subject to regulatory capital requirements; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. As part of the February 2016 acquisition of Underground Solutions, we repatriated approximately $30.4 million from foreign subsidiaries to assist in funding the transaction, incurring approximately $3.5 million in additional taxes. These were viewed as one-time, special-use transactions. With few exceptions, U.S. income taxes, net of applicable foreign tax credits, have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries. Our intention is to permanently reinvest these earnings. 46 Our primary source of cash is operating activities. We occasionally borrow under our line of credit's available capacity to fund operating activities, including working capital investments. Our operating activities include the collection of accounts receivable as well as the ultimate billing and collection of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings. At September30, 2016 , we believed our net accounts receivable and our costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, as reported on our consolidated balance sheet, were fully collectible and a significant portion of the receivables will be collected within the next twelve months. In March 2016, we settled an outstanding project dispute with a client in Infrastructure Solutions. In connection with the settlement, we agreed to forgo approximately $7.5 million in receivables owed by our client and we agreed to pay an additional $2.4 million. During April 2016, we paid the settlement amount. The customer receivable, along with the related allowance for doubtful account, was written off as of March 31, 2016. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operating activities provided $36.7 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to $68.5 million provided in the first nine months of 2015 . The decrease in operating cash flow from the prior year period was primarily due to lower net income and lower cash flows related to working capital as a result of the timing of vendor payments. Net income during the first nine months of 2016 was negatively impacted by $14.0 million in cash charges related to our 2016 Restructuring. Working capital used $18.7 million of cash during the first nine months of 2016 compared to $0.4 million provided in the comparable period of 2015 , primarily due to higher vendor payments. During the first nine months of 2016 , cash flow provided by working capital requirements was impacted by seasonal payments of accounts payable due to increased project activity in the summer months, partially offset by lower days sales outstanding, which decreased approximately 12 days at September30, 2016 compared to September30, 2015 . The decrease in days sales outstanding was primarily due to the the impact of stronger collections in Infrastructure Solutions and the timing of billing and advance deposits received on certain coatings projects at our Bayou Louisiana facility. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities used $120.2 million during the first nine months of 2016 compared to $29.3 million used in the comparable period of 2015 . During the first nine months of 2016 , we used $96.3 million to acquire Underground Solutions, selected assets of Fyfe Europe, the CIPP business of LMJ and Concrete Solutions. During the first nine months of 2015, we used $6.9 million to acquire Schultz Mechanical Contractors. During 2016, we received proceeds of $6.6 million , net of cash disposed, from the sale of our interest in our Canadian pipe coating operation. We used $31.5 million in cash for capital expenditures in the first nine months of 2016 compared to $21.3 million in the prior year period. The increase during the first nine months of 2016 was primarily due to $12.1 million in capital expenditures related to constructing the new pipe coating and insulation plant in our Corrosion Protection segment. In the first nine months of 2016 and 2015 , $1.2 million and $0.9 million, respectively, of non-cash capital expenditures were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Capital expenditures in the first nine months of 2016 and 2015 were partially offset by $3.1 million and $1.7 million , respectively, in proceeds received from asset disposals. We anticipate approximately $40.0 million to be spent in 2016 on capital expenditures to support our global operations, inclusive of the construction of the new pipe coating and insulation plant. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities used $15.5 million during the first nine months of 2016 compared to $42.3 million used in the first nine months of 2015 . During the first nine months of 2016 and 2015 , we used net cash of $36.6 million and $20.6 million , respectively, to repurchase 1,967,347 and 1,091,122 shares, respectively, of our common stock through open market purchases and in connection with our equity compensation programs as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report. We had net borrowings of $36.0 million from our line of credit during the first nine months of 2016, primarily to fund our acquisition activity, and we used cash of $13.1 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan. During the first nine months of 2015, we used cash of $19.7 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan and, as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report, we made a $26.5 million mandatory prepayment on the balance of our term loan, utilizing $26.0 million from our line of credit to fund the term loan prepayment. Long-Term Debt In October 2015, we entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The credit facility consists of a $300.0 million five-year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five-year term loan facility, each with an original maturity date in October 2020. 47 Our indebtedness at September30, 2016 consisted of $332.5 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the credit facility and $36.0 million on the line of credit under the credit facility. During 2016, we (i) borrowed $30.0 million on the line of credit to help fund the acquisition of Underground Solutions; (ii) borrowed $3.0 million on the line of credit to help fund a small acquisition; and (iii) had net borrowings of $3.0 million on the line of credit for both domestic and international working capital needs. Additionally, we designated $9.6 million of debt held by our joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by our joint venture partners) as third-party debt in our consolidated financial statements and held $0.3 million of third-party notes and bank debt at September30, 2016 . As of September30, 2016 , we had $36.3 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the credit facility. Of such amount, $19.4 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $16.8 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. In October 2015, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrored the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of our $350.0 million term loan drawn from our credit facility. The swap requires us to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for us to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated by amortizing the $262.5 million same notional amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offset a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of our term loan from the credit facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement, and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The credit facility is subject to certain financial covenants including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at September30, 2016 and expect continued compliance for the foreseeable future. We believe that we have adequate resources and liquidity to fund future cash requirements and debt repayments with cash generated from operations, existing cash balances and additional short- and long-term borrowing capacity for the next 12 months. We expect cash generated from operations to remain solid throughout the remainder of 2016 due to improved working capital management initiatives and the cost savings generated through our restructuring efforts. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for additional information and disclosures regarding our long-term debt. Disclosure of Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments There were no material changes in contractual obligations and commercial commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further discussion regarding our commitments and contingencies. Critical Accounting Policies Goodwill We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Our annual impairment assessment is October 1, 2016. During that analysis, we will determine the fair value of our reporting units and compare such fair value to the carrying value of those reporting units to determine if there are any indications of goodwill impairment. As part of this assessment and as a result of management leadership changes, recent acquisitions and other relevant factors, we will also evaluate our reporting units for potential composition changes.Item 1. Financial Statements AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 3 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (in thousands) __________________________ (1) Amounts presented net of tax of $321 and $(2,392) for the quarters ended March31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. (2) Amounts presented net of tax of $(1) and $(30) for the quarters ended March31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 4 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 5 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (Unaudited) (in thousands, except number of shares) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 6 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 7 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1.GENERAL The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Aegion Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Aegion" or the "Company") reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the dates and periods presented. Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected during the remainder of the current year or for any future period. All significant intercompany related accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016, which is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, and the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the requirements of Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X and, consequently, do not include all information or footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements or all the disclosures normally made in an Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, the unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes included in the Company's 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2017. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce the Company's exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. The 2016 Restructuring repositioned Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reduced Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sized Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reduced corporate and other operating costs. See Note 3. Infrastructure Solutions Segment ("Infrastructure Solutions") On March 1, 2017, the Company acquired Environmental Techniques Limited and its parent holding company, Killeen Trading Limited (collectively "Environmental Techniques"), for a purchase price of 6.5 million , approximately $8.0 million , which was funded from the Company's international cash balances. The purchase price is subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and included 1.0 million , approximately $1.2 million , held in escrow as security for any post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of Environmental Techniques's previous owners. Environmental Techniques provides trenchless drainage inspection, cleaning and rehabilitation throughout the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland . On July 1, 2016, the Company acquired Concrete Solutions Limited ("CSL") and Building Chemical Supplies Limited ("BCS"), two New Zealand companies (collectively, "Concrete Solutions" ), for a purchase price paid at closing of NZD 7.5 million , approximately $5.5 million . The purchase price is subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and included NZD 0.5 million , approximately $0.4 million , held in escrow as security for post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of the previous owners. The sellers have the ability to earn up to an additional NZD 2.0 million , approximately $1.4 million , of proceeds based on reaching certain performance targets in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The transaction was funded from the Company's cash balances. CSL provides structural strengthening, concrete repair and bridge jointing solutions primarily through application of fiber reinforced polymer ( "FRP" ) and injection resins and had served as a Fibrwrap certified applicator in New Zealand for a number of years. BCS imports and distributes materials, including fiber reinforced polymer, injection resins, repair mortars and protective coatings . On June 2, 2016, the Company acquired the cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP") contracting operations of Leif M. Jensen A/S ("LMJ"), a Danish company and the Insituform licensee in Denmark since 2011. The purchase price was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million , and was funded from the Company's international cash balances. On May 13, 2016, the Company acquired the operations and territories of Fyfe Europe S.A. and related companies ("Fyfe Europe") for a purchase price of $3.0 million . The transaction was funded from the Company's cash balances. Fyfe Europe held rights to provide Fibrwrap product engineering and support to installers and applicators of FRP systems in 72 countries throughout Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. The acquisition of these territories now provides the Company with worldwide rights to market, manufacture and install the patented Tyfo Fibrwrap FRP technology. 8 On February 18, 2016, the Company acquired Underground Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiary, Underground Solutions Technologies Group, Inc. (collectively, "Underground Solutions"), for an initial purchase price of $85.0 million plus an additional $5.0 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards. The purchase price included $6.3 million held in escrow as security for the post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of Underground Solutions' previous owners. The transaction was funded partially from the Company's cash balances and partially from borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility. Underground Solutions provides infrastructure technologies for water, sewer and conduit applications. On October 6, 2014, the Company's board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2014 Restructuring") which included the decision to exit Insituform's contracting markets in France, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore. The Company has substantially completed all of the objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. Corrosion Protection Segment ("Corrosion Protection") On February 1, 2016, the Company sold its fifty-one percent ( 51% ) interest in its Canadian pipe coating joint venture, Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), to its joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The sale price was $9.6 million , which consisted of a $7.6 million payment at closing and a $2.0 million promissory note, which was paid on July 28, 2016. BPPC served as the Company's pipe coating and insulation operation in Canada. The sale of its interest in BPPC was part of a broader effort by the Company to reduce its exposure in the North American upstream market in light of expectations for a prolonged low oil price environment. Purchase Price Accounting During the first quarter of 2017, the Company determined its preliminary accounting for Environmental Techniques and finalized its accounting for Underground Solutions. The accounting for Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions is substantially complete with the exception of final working capital adjustments. As the Company completes its final accounting for these acquisitions, future adjustments related to working capital, deferred income taxes, definite-lived intangible assets and goodwill could occur. The goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Fyfe Europe and LMJ acquisitions are deductible for tax purposes; whereas, the goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Environmental Techniques, Underground Solutions and Concrete Solutions acquisitions are not deductible for tax purposes. Environmental Techniques, Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions made the following contributions to the Company's revenues and profits (in thousands): _____________________ (1) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.4 million . (2) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 includes inventory step-up expense of $1.2 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. The following pro forma summary presents combined information of the Company as if the Environmental Techniques, Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year preceding their acquisition (in thousands, except earnings per share): _____________________ (1) Includes pro-forma results related to Environmental Techniques. (2) Includes pro-forma results related to Environmental Techniques, Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions. 9 (3) Includes pro-forma adjustments for depreciation and amortization associated with acquired tangible and intangible assets, as if those assets were recorded at the beginning of the year preceding the acquisition date. The transaction purchase price to acquire Environmental Techniques was 6.5 million , approximately $8.0 million , which represented cash consideration paid at closing. The transaction purchase price to acquire Underground Solutions was $88.4 million , which included: (i) a payment at closing of $85.0 million ; (ii) a payment of $5.0 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards; and (iii) working capital adjustments of $1.6 million payable to the Company. The transaction purchase price to acquire Fyfe Europe was $3.0 million , which represented cash consideration paid at closing of $2.8 million plus $0.2 million of deferred contingent consideration, which was paid during the first quarter of 2017. The transaction purchase price to acquire LMJ was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million , which was paid at closing. The transaction purchase price to acquire Concrete Solutions was NZD 8.9 million , approximately $6.4 million , which included: (i) a payment at closing of NZD 7.5 million , approximately $5.5 million ; (ii) a preliminary working capital adjustment payable to the sellers of NZD 0.2 million , approximately $0.1 million ; and (iii) the estimated fair value of earnout consideration of NZD 1.2 million , approximately $0.9 million , which was recorded to "Other non-current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at March31, 2017 . The fair value estimate was determined using observable inputs and significant unobservable inputs, which are based on level 3 inputs as defined in Note 11. The following table summarizes the fair value of identified assets and liabilities of the Environmental Techniques, Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions acquisitions at their respective acquisition dates (in thousands): 2.ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenues Revenues include construction, engineering and installation revenues that are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting in the ratio of costs incurred to estimated final costs. Revenues from change orders, extra work and variations in the scope of work are recognized when it is probable that they will result in additional contract revenue and when the amount can be reliably estimated. Contract costs include all direct material and labor costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools and equipment costs. The Company expenses all 10 pre-contract costs in the period these costs are incurred. Since the financial reporting of these contracts depends on estimates, which are assessed continually during the term of these contracts, recognized revenues and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Revisions in profit estimates are reflected in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. If material, the effects of any changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. When estimates indicate that a loss will be incurred on a contract, a provision for the expected loss is recorded in the period in which the loss becomes evident. Any revenue recognized is only to the extent costs have been recognized in the period. Additionally, the Company expenses all costs for unpriced change orders in the period in which they are incurred. Revenues from the Company's Energy Services segment are derived mainly from multiple engineering and construction type contracts, as well as maintenance contracts, under multi-year long-term master service agreements and alliance contracts. Businesses within the Company's Energy Services segment enter into customer contracts that contain three principal types of pricing provisions: time and materials, cost plus fixed fee and fixed price. Although the terms of these contracts vary, most are made pursuant to cost reimbursable contracts on a time and materials basis under which revenues are recorded based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. These businesses also perform services on a cost plus fixed fee basis under which revenues are recorded based upon costs incurred at agreed upon rates and a proportionate amount of the fixed fee or percentage stipulated in the contract. Foreign Currency Translation For the Company's international subsidiaries, the local currency is generally the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using rates in effect at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The cumulative translation adjustment resulting from changes in exchange rates are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in total stockholders' equity. The Company's accumulated other comprehensive loss is comprised of three main components: (i) currency translation; (ii) gains and losses associated with the Company's defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom; and (iii) derivatives (in thousands): Net foreign exchange transaction losses of $0.4 million and $1.1 million in the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 , respectively, are included in "Other expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Taxation The Company provides for estimated income taxes payable or refundable on current year income tax returns as well as the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards, based upon enacted tax laws and tax rates, and in accordance with FASB ASC 740, Income Taxes ("FASB ASC 740"). FASB ASC 740 also requires that a valuation allowance be recorded against any deferred tax assets that are not likely to be realized in the future. Refer to Note 8 for additional information regarding taxes on income. Purchase Price Accounting The Company accounts for its acquisitions in accordance with FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations . The base cash purchase price plus the estimated fair value of any non-cash or contingent consideration given for an acquired business is allocated to the assets acquired (including identified intangible assets) and liabilities assumed based on the estimated fair values of such assets and liabilities. The excess of the total consideration over the aggregate net fair values assigned is recorded as goodwill. Contingent consideration, if any, is recognized as a liability as of the acquisition date with subsequent adjustments recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Indirect and general expenses related to business combinations are expensed as incurred. The Company typically determines the fair value of tangible and intangible assets acquired in a business combination using independent valuations that rely on management's estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. Key assumptions include cash flow projections, growth rates, asset lives, and discount rates based on an analysis of weighted average cost of capital. 11 Long-Lived Assets Property, plant and equipment and other identified intangibles (primarily customer relationships, patents and acquired technologies, trademarks, licenses and non-compete agreements) are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment and, except for goodwill and certain trademarks, are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Changes in circumstances such as technological advances, changes to the Company's business model or changes in the Company's capital strategy can result in the actual useful lives differing from the Company's estimates. If the Company determines that the useful life of its property, plant and equipment or its identified intangible assets should be changed, the Company would depreciate or amortize the net book value in excess of the salvage value over its revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing or decreasing depreciation or amortization expense. Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment tests are based on a comparison of undiscounted cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. The estimate of cash flow is based upon, among other things, assumptions about expected future operating performance. The Company's estimates of undiscounted cash flow may differ from actual cash flow due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to its business model or changes in its operating performance. If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows (excluding interest) is less than the carrying value, the Company recognizes an impairment loss, measured as the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the asset. Goodwill Acquisitions treated as a business combination generally result in goodwill related to, among other things, synergies, acquired workforce, growth opportunities and market potential. Under FASB ASC 350, the Company assesses recoverability of goodwill on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. An impairment charge will be recognized to the extent that the implied fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Factors that could potentially trigger an impairment review include (but are not limited to): significant underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected, historical or forecasted operating results; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant changes in the strategy for a segment including extended slowdowns in the reporting unit's market; a decrease in market capitalization below the Company's book value; and a significant change in regulations. Whether during the annual impairment assessment or during a trigger-based impairment review, the Company determines the fair value of its reporting units and compares such fair value to the carrying value of those reporting units to determine if there are any indications of goodwill impairment. Fair value of reporting units is determined using a combination of two valuation methods: a market approach and an income approach with each method given equal weight in determining the fair value assigned to each reporting unit. Absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transaction, the Company believes the use of these two methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit's fair value. Assumptions common to both methods are operating plans and economic outlooks, which are used to forecast future revenues, earnings and after-tax cash flows for each reporting unit. These assumptions are applied consistently for both methods. The market approach estimates fair value by first determining earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") multiples for comparable publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics of the reporting unit. The EBITDA multiples for comparable companies are based upon current enterprise value. The enterprise value is based upon current market capitalization and includes a control premium. The Company believes this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using multiples from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to its reporting units. The income approach is based on forecasted future (debt-free) cash flows that are discounted to present value using factors that consider timing and risk of future cash flows. The Company believes this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting unit's expected long-term operating cash flow performance. Discounted cash flow projections are based on financial forecasts developed from operating plans and economic outlooks, growth rates, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins, terminal value growth rates, future capital expenditures and changes in working capital requirements. Estimates of discounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, changes in economic conditions, changes to business models, changes in the Company's weighted average cost of capital, or changes in operating performance. 12 The discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows is one of the most significant assumptions utilized under the income approach. The Company determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital ("WACC") for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the pre-tax cost of debt and cost of equity (including the risk-free rate on twenty year U.S. Treasury bonds), and certain other company-specific and market-based factors. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, the WACC for each reporting unit is adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company-specific risks. Accordingly, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Investments in Variable Interest Entities The Company evaluates all transactions and relationships with variable interest entities ("VIE") to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entities in accordance with FASB ASC 810, Consolidation. The Company's overall methodology for evaluating transactions and relationships under the VIE requirements includes the following two steps: determine whether the entity meets the criteria to qualify as a VIE; and determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. In performing the first step, the significant factors and judgments that the Company considers in making the determination as to whether an entity is a VIE include: the design of the entity, including the nature of its risks and the purpose for which the entity was created, to determine the variability that the entity was designed to create and distribute to its interest holders; the nature of the Company's involvement with the entity; whether control of the entity may be achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting equity; whether there is sufficient equity investment at risk to finance the activities of the entity; and whether parties other than the equity holders have the obligation to absorb expected losses or the right to receive residual returns. If the Company identifies a VIE based on the above considerations, it then performs the second step and evaluates whether it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE by considering the following significant factors and judgments: whether the entity has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance; and whether the entity has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. Based on its evaluation of the above factors and judgments, as of March 31, 2017 , the Company consolidated any VIEs in which it was the primary beneficiary. Financial data for consolidated variable interest entities are summarized in the following table (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first quarter of 2017, increased activity was primarily driven from our joint venture in Louisiana, which continued its work on a large deepwater pipe coating and insulation project. 13 Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test. The standard requires an entity to perform its goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge should be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value. The standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020, but early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. The Company's adoption of this standard, effective January 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance requiring that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. As a result, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. This new guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted, and the new guidance is to be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements, other than the classification of restricted cash on the consolidated statement of cash flows. In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted, and the new guidance is to be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its statement of cash flows. In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment awards to employees, including the accounting for income taxes, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The Company's adoption of this standard, effective January 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires lessees to present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases with lease terms longer than twelve months. The standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted. Entities are required to use the modified retrospective approach for all existing leases as of the effective date; however, the standard provides for certain practical expedients. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations, including an analysis of its current lease contracts as well as other existing arrangements to determine if they qualify for lease accounting under the new standard. In November 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, to be presented as non-current within the Consolidated Balance Sheet. It is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017, including interim periods within that fiscal year . The Company's adoption of this standard, effective January 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Prior period balances were not retrospectively adjusted. In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance that supersedes revenue recognition requirements regarding contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or for the transfer of non-financial assets. Under the new guidance, entities are required to recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis to be performed on transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. This new guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018. Early adoption is permitted, although the Company does not intend to do so. Entities are allowed to transition to the new standard either on a full retrospective basis or under the cumulative effect method whereby the entity applies the new revenue standard as of the date of initial application without restatement of comparative period amounts. The Company is still evaluating the impact of the new revenue standard including which transition approach will be applied. The Company has identified a project manager as well as a cross functional project team responsible for assessing the impact on its contracts. The implementation team is finalizing the project's assessment phase, which included the identification of the Company's key revenue streams (fixed fee, time and materials, product sales and royalty fees from license arrangements) and the comparison of historical accounting policies and practices to the requirements of the new revenue standard. The implementation team has also made substantial progress in the contract review phase of the project, which included identifying the population of contracts and a deep analysis of the new standard on individual contract terms, and initiated the process of identifying potential changes to business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. 14 Based on its preliminary assessment, the Company does not anticipate a significant change to the timing of revenue or cost recognition upon adoption of the new revenue standard. Revenues earned from construction, engineering and installation services that are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting under historical reporting practices are expected to remain largely unchanged. Other less significant revenue streams such as time and materials projects, product sales and royalty fees are still being evaluated, but significant changes are not expected at this time. Approved change orders and revised cost estimates could result in cumulative catch up adjustments to revenue under certain circumstances. We also expect to implement changes to our financial reporting process in order to comply with the disclosure requirements of the new revenue standard. 3.RESTRUCTURING On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Restructuring to reduce its exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. During 2016, the Company completed its restructuring, which included repositioning Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reducing Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sizing Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reducing corporate and other operating costs. Cost savings were achieved primarily through office closures and reducing headcount by approximately 964 employees, or 15.5% of the Company's total workforce as of December 31, 2015. Total pre-tax 2016 Restructuring charges recorded since inception were $16.1 million ( $10.3 million after tax) and consisted of employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs associated with the restructuring efforts described above. The vast majority of 2016 Restructuring costs were cash charges. There were no expenses incurred in the first quarter of 2017 related to the 2016 Restructuring. During the first quarter of 2016, the Company recorded pre-tax expense related to the 2016 Restructuring as follows (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Includes charges primarily related to downsizing the Company's upstream operations in California, inclusive of wind-down costs, professional fees, fixed asset disposals and certain other restructuring charges. (2) Includes $1.0 million of corporate-related restructuring charges that have been allocated to the reportable segments. 2016 Restructuring costs related to severance, other termination benefit costs and early lease termination costs for the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 were zero and $6.7 million , respectively, and reported on a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . The following tables summarize all charges related to the 2016 Restructuring recognized in the first quarter of 2016 as presented in their affected line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): __________________________ (1) All charges relate to Infrastructure Solutions. (2) Includes: (i) charges of $0.2 million related to Infrastructure Solutions; (ii) charges of $0.3 million related to Corrosion Protection; and (iii) charges of $2.5 million related to Energy Services. 15 (3) Includes: (i) charges of $1.9 million related to Infrastructure Solutions; (ii) charges of $2.4 million related to Corrosion Protection; and (iii) charges of $2.4 million related to Energy Services. (4) All charges incurred during the quarter will be settled in cash, either during the current quarter or future periods. The following tables summarize the 2016 Restructuring activity during the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges, either those reserved at December 31, 2016 or charged to income during the first quarter of 2017. __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges during the first quarter of 2016. 4.SHARE INFORMATION Earnings per share have been calculated using the following share information: The Company excluded 391,885 stock options and restricted and deferred stock units in the first quarter of 2016 from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the Company's common stock because of the reported net loss for the period. The Company excluded 77,807 and 164,014 stock options for the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 , respectively, from the diluted earnings per share calculations for the Company's common stock because they were anti-dilutive as their exercise prices were greater than the average market price of common shares for each period. 16 5.GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's goodwill at January 1, 2017 and March31, 2017 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first quarter of 2017 , the Company recorded goodwill of $3.4 million related to the acquisition of Environmental Techniques (see Note 1). Identified Intangible Assets Identified intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first quarter of 2017 , the Company recorded trademarks of $0.4 million and customer relationships of $1.6 million related to the acquisition of Environmental Techniques (see Note 1). Amortization expense was $4.3 million and $3.7 million for the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Estimated amortization expense by year is as follows (in thousands): 17 6.LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITY Financing Arrangements Long-term debt, term note and notes payable consisted of the following (in thousands): In October 2015, the Company entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of banks. Bank of America, N.A. served as the sole administrative agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association acted as co-syndication agents. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Securities LLC and U.S. Bank National Association acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers in the syndication of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility consists of a $300.0 million five -year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five -year term loan facility. The Company drew the entire term loan from the Credit Facility to (i) retire $344.7 million in indebtedness outstanding under the Company's prior credit facility; (ii) fund expenses associated with the Credit Facility; and (iii) fund general corporate purposes. Generally, interest is charged on the principal amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus an applicable rate ranging from 1.25% to 2.25% depending on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The Company can also opt for an interest rate equal to a base rate (as defined in the credit documents) plus an applicable rate, which also is based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable LIBOR borrowing rate (LIBOR plus Company's applicable rate) as of March31, 2017 was approximately 3.26% . The Company's indebtedness at March31, 2017 consisted of $323.8 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the Credit Facility and $46.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. During the first quarter of 2017, the Company borrowed $10.0 million on the line of credit for domestic working capital needs. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.3 million of third-party notes and bank debt at March31, 2017 . As of March31, 2017 , the Company had $32.7 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the Credit Facility. Of such amount, $15.1 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $17.5 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. The Company's indebtedness at December31, 2016 consisted of $328.1 million outstanding from the term loan under the Credit Facility and $36.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint ventures (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.3 million of third-party notes and bank debt at December31, 2016 . At March31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt was approximately $374.0 million and $366.0 million , respectively. Fair value was estimated using market rates for debt of similar risk and maturity and a discounted cash flow model, which are based on Level 3 inputs as defined in Note 11. In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrors the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated on the same amortizing $262.5 million notional amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. See Note 11. 18 The Credit Facility is subject to certain financial covenants, including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. Subject to the specifically defined terms and methods of calculation as set forth in the Credit Facility's credit agreement, the financial covenant requirements, as of each quarterly reporting period end, are defined as follows: Consolidated financial leverage ratio compares consolidated funded indebtedness to Credit Facility defined income. The initial maximum amount was not to initially exceed 3.75 to 1.00. In connection with the acquisition of Underground Solutions, the Company executed a one-time election, in accordance with the Credit Agreement, to increase the consolidated financial leverage ratio to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of one year , which expired during the first quarter of 2017. For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, the maximum amount was not to exceed 3.75 to 1.00. The ratio will decrease to not more than 3.50 to 1.00 beginning with the quarter ending June 30, 2017. At March31, 2017 , the Company's consolidated financial leverage ratio was 3.10 to 1.00 and, using the Credit Facility defined income, the Company had the capacity to borrow up to $80.9 million of additional debt. Consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio compares Credit Facility defined income to Credit Facility defined fixed charges with a minimum permitted ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00. At March31, 2017 , the Company's fixed charge ratio was 1.72 to 1.00. At March31, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt and financial covenants as required under the Credit Facility. 7.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND EQUITY COMPENSATION Share Repurchase Plan Under the terms of its Credit Facility, the Company is authorized to purchase a limited number of shares of its common stock on an annual basis, subject to Board of Director authorization. In October 2016, our Board of Directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to $40.0 million of our common stock to be made during 2017. The Company began repurchasing shares under this program in January 2017. Once repurchased, the Company promptly retires such shares. The Company is also authorized to repurchase up to $10.0 million of the Company's common stock in each calendar year in connection with the Company's equity compensation programs for employees. The participants in the Company's equity plans may surrender shares of common stock in satisfaction of tax obligations arising from the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock unit awards and performance unit awards under such plans and in connection with the exercise of stock option awards. The deemed price paid is the closing price of the Company's common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date that the restricted stock, restricted stock unit or performance unit vests or the shares of the Company's common stock are surrendered in exchange for stock option exercises. The option holder may elect a "net, net" exercise in connection with the exercise of employee stock options such that the option holder receives a number of shares equal to (1) the built-in gain in the option shares divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise, less (2) a number of shares equal to the taxes due upon the exercise of the option divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise. The shares of Company common stock surrendered to the Company for taxes due on the exercise of the option are deemed repurchased by the Company. During the first quarter of 2017, the Company acquired 366,914 shares of the Company's common stock for $8.4 million ( $22.82 average price per share) through the open market repurchase programs discussed above and 95,403 shares of the Company's common stock for $2.1 million ( $22.37 average price per share) in connection with the satisfaction of tax obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance units. Once repurchased, the Company immediately retired all such shares. During the first quarter of 2016, the Company acquired 858,582 shares of the Company's common stock for $15.3 million ( $17.83 average price per share) through the open market repurchase program discussed above and 52,074 shares of the Company's common stock for $1.0 million ( $19.61 average price per share) in connection with the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and the exercise of stock options. Once repurchased, the Company immediately retired all such shares. Equity-Based Compensation Plans In April 2016, the Company's stockholders approved the 2016 Employee Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Employee Plan"), which replaced the 2013 Employee Equity Incentive Plan. The 2016 Employee Plan provides for equity-based compensation awards, including restricted shares of common stock, performance awards, stock options, stock units and stock appreciation rights. The 2016 Employee Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which determines eligibility, timing, pricing, amount and other terms or conditions of awards. In April 2017, the Company's stockholders approved the First Amendment to the 2016 Employee Equity Incentive Plan, which increased by 1,000,000 the 19 number of shares of the Company's common stock reserved and available for issuance in connection with awards issued under the 2016 Employee Plan. As of March31, 2017 , 207,474 shares of common stock were available for issuance under the 2016 Employee Plan. In April 2016, the Company's stockholders also approved the 2016 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Director Plan"), which replaced the 2011 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan. The 2016 Director Plan provides for equity-based compensation awards, including non-qualified stock options and stock units. The Board of Directors administers the 2016 Director Plan and has the authority to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations related to the 2016 Director Plan. As of March31, 2017 , 161,326 shares of common stock were available for issuance under the 2016 Director Plan. Stock Awards Stock awards, which include shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted performance units, are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock award compensation is recorded based on the award date fair value and charged to expense ratably through the requisite service period. The forfeiture of unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted performance units causes the reversal of all previous expense to be recorded as a reduction of current period expense. A summary of the stock award activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock awards was $3.0 million and $2.3 million for the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Unrecognized pre-tax expense of $21.4 million related to stock awards is expected to be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of 2.15 years for awards outstanding at March31, 2017 . Deferred Stock Unit Awards Deferred stock units are generally awarded to directors of the Company and represent the Company's obligation to transfer one share of the Company's common stock to the grantee at a future date and are generally fully vested on the date of grant. The expense related to the issuance of deferred stock units is recorded as of the date of the award. 20 A summary of deferred stock unit activity is as follows: Expense associated with awards of deferred stock units was $0.1 million and less than $0.1 million for the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Stock Options Stock options on the Company's common stock are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock options granted generally have a term of seven to ten years and an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. A summary of stock option activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock option grants was zero and less than $0.1 million for the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. There was no unrecognized pre-tax expense related to stock option grants at March31, 2017 . Financial data for stock option exercises are summarized as follows (in thousands): The intrinsic value calculations are based on the Company's closing stock price of $22.91 and $21.09 on March31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The Company uses a binomial option-pricing model for valuation purposes to reflect the features of stock options granted. Volatility, expected term and dividend yield assumptions are based on the Company's historical experience. The risk-free rate is based on a U.S. treasury note with a maturity similar to the option grant's expected term. There were no stock options awarded during 2017 or 2016 . 21 8.TAXES ON INCOME The Company's effective tax rate in the quarter ended March31, 2017 was 20.5% . The effective rate was favorably impacted by the reversal of previously recorded valuation allowances due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits, primarily in the United States. For the quarter ended March31, 2016 , the Company's effective tax rate was a benefit of 54.6% on a pre-tax loss and was favorably impacted by a $1.9 million benefit related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance in the U.S. due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. 9.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Litigation In December 2016, the Company settled two lawsuits related to the December 2012 departure of several key leaders in sales and operations for the Tyfo Fibrwrap technology, which is part of the Infrastructure Solutions platform. Under the settlement, Aegion will receive $6.6 million over the years 2016 through 2020. The initial $3.6 million cash payment was received in December 2016 and the remainder is to be paid in $750,000 installments over the next four years. At March31, 2017 , $750,000 was included in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" and $2.25 million was included in "Other assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company is involved in certain litigation incidental to the conduct of its business and affairs. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not believe that the outcome of any such litigation, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Contingencies In connection with the Brinderson acquisition, certain pre-acquisition matters were identified in 2014 whereby a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. The Company establishes liabilities in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic No. 450-20, Contingencies - Loss Contingencies , and accordingly, recorded an accrual related to various legal, tax, employee benefit and employment matters. At December 31, 2016, the accrual relating to these matters was $6.0 million . During the first quarter of 2017, the Company reassessed its reserve, as certain payroll tax statutory limitation periods lapsed, and lowered its accrual for such matters by $0.7 million . The accrual adjustments resulted in an offset to "Operating expense" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of March31, 2017 , the remaining accrual relating to these matters was $5.3 million . The Company believes it has asserted meritorious defenses to these remaining matters. Purchase Commitments The Company had no material purchase commitments at March31, 2017 . Guarantees The Company has many contracts that require the Company to indemnify the other party against loss from claims, including claims of patent or trademark infringement or other third party claims for injuries, damages or losses. The Company has agreed to indemnify its surety against losses from third-party claims of subcontractors. The Company has not previously experienced material losses under these provisions and, while there can be no assurances, currently does not anticipate any future material adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company regularly reviews its exposure under all its engagements, including performance guarantees by contractual joint ventures and indemnification of its surety. As a result of the most recent review, the Company has determined that the risk of material loss is remote under these arrangements and has not recorded a liability for these risks at March31, 2017 on its consolidated balance sheet. 10.SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has three operating segments, which are also its reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions; Corrosion Protection; and Energy Services. The Company's operating segments correspond to its management organizational structure. Each operating segment has a president who reports to the Company's chief executive officer, who is also the chief operating decision manager ("CODM"). The operating results and financial information reported by each of the segments are evaluated 22 separately, regularly reviewed and used by the CODM to evaluate segment performance, allocate resources and determine management incentive compensation. The following disaggregated financial results have been prepared using a management approach that is consistent with the basis and manner with which management internally disaggregates financial information for the purpose of making internal operating decisions. The Company evaluates performance based on stand-alone operating income (loss), which includes acquisition-related expenses, restructuring charges and an allocation of corporate-related expenses. Financial information by segment was as follows (in thousands): _______________________ (1) Results include: (i) $0.1 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals; and (ii) $0.5 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Environmental Techniques and other acquisition targets. (2) Results include: (i) $9.7 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.2 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals; (iii) $1.0 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $1.2 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations (see Note 1). (3) Operating income in the first quarter of 2017 includes: (i) $0.1 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals; and (ii) $0.5 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Environmental Techniques and other acquisition targets. Operating income in the first quarter of 2016 includes: (i) $2.2 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.2 million of 2014 Restructuring expense reversals; (iii) $1.0 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions and other acquisition targets; and (iv) inventory step up expense of $1.2 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations (see Note 1). (4) Operating loss in the first quarter of 2016 includes $2.7 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). (5) Operating loss in the first quarter of 2016 includes $4.9 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3). 23 The following table summarizes revenues, gross profit and operating income by geographic region (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Revenues are attributed to the country of origin for the Company's legal entities. For a significant majority of its legal entities, the country of origin relates to the country or geographic area that it services. 11.DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As a matter of policy, the Company uses derivatives for risk management purposes, and does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. From time to time, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency cash flow transactions. For cash flow hedges, a gain or loss is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations upon settlement of the hedge. All of the Company's hedges that are designated as hedges for accounting purposes were highly effective; therefore, no notable amounts of hedge ineffectiveness were recorded in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the outstanding hedged balance. During the first quarters of 2017 and 2016 , the Company recorded less than $0.1 million as a gain on the consolidated statements of operations in the other income (expense) line item upon settlement of cash flow hedges. At March31, 2017 , the Company's cash flow hedges were in a net deferred loss position of $0.1 million due to unfavorable movements in short-term interest rates relative to the hedged position. The loss was recorded in accrued expenses and other comprehensive income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and on the foreign currency translation adjustment and derivative transactions line of the Consolidated Statements of Equity. The Company presents derivative instruments in the consolidated financial statements on a gross basis. The gross and net difference of derivative instruments are considered to be immaterial to the financial position presented in the financial statements. The Company engages in regular inter-company trade activities and receives royalty payments from its wholly-owned Canadian entities, paid in Canadian dollars, rather than the Company's functional currency, U.S. dollars. The Company utilizes foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the currency risk associated with the anticipated future payments from its Canadian entities. In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrored the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated by amortizing the $262.5 million same notional 24 amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The following table provides a summary of the fair value amounts of our derivative instruments, all of which are Level 2 inputs as defined below (in thousands): FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements ("FASB ASC 820"), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements for interim and annual reporting periods. The guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1 defined as quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments; Level 2 defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3 defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. In accordance with FASB ASC 820, the Company determined that the instruments summarized below are derived from significant observable inputs, referred to as Level 2 inputs. 25 The following tables represent assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and the basis for that measurement (in thousands): The following table summarizes the Company's derivative positions at March31, 2017 : The Company had no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 inputs during the quarter ended March31, 2017 . Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods could affect the fair value estimates; however, the Company does not believe any such changes would have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value, which is based on Level 2 inputs as previously defined. 26 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is management's discussion and analysis of certain significant factors that have affected our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods included in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . We believe that certain accounting policies could potentially have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements, either because of the significance of the consolidated financial statements to which they relate or because they involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. A summary of such critical accounting policies can be found in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . Forward-Looking Information The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. We make forward-looking statements in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and on management's beliefs, assumptions, estimates and projections and are not guarantees of future events or results. When used in this report, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "plan," "intend," "may," "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred to in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2017, and in our subsequent filed reports, including this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed may not occur. In addition, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, suggested or projected. Except as required by law, we do not assume a duty to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, review additional disclosures made by us from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please use caution and do not place reliance on forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements. Executive Summary Aegion combines innovative technologies with market leading expertise to maintain, rehabilitate, and strengthen infrastructure around the world. Since 1971, we have played a pioneering role in finding innovative solutions to rehabilitate aging infrastructure, primarily pipelines in the wastewater, water, energy, mining and refining industries. We also maintain the efficient operation of refineries and other industrial facilities and provide innovative solutions for the strengthening of buildings, bridges and other structures. We are committed to Stronger. Safer. Infrastructure . Our products and services are currently utilized in approximately 80 countries across six continents. We believe the depth and breadth of our products and services make us a leading provider for the world's infrastructure rehabilitation and protection needs. Our Segments We have three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions, Corrosion Protection and Energy Services. Our operating segments correspond to our management organizational structure. Infrastructure Solutions The majority of our work is performed in the municipal water and wastewater pipeline sector and, while the pace of growth is primarily driven by government funding, we believe the overall market needs result in a long-term stable growth opportunity for our market leading product brands, Insituform CIPP, Tyfo Fibrwrap and Fusible PVC . Corrosion Protection Investment in North America's pipeline infrastructure is required to transport product from onshore and offshore oil and gas fields to its proper end markets. Corrosion Protection has a broad portfolio of technologies and services to protect and monitor pipelines from the effects of corrosion, including cathodic protection, interior pipe linings, interior and exterior pipe coatings and insulation as well as an increasing offering of inspection and repair capabilities. We provide solutions to customers to enhance the safety, environmental integrity, reliability and compliance of their pipelines in the oil and gas market. Energy Services We offer a unique value proposition based on our world class safety and labor productivity programs, which allows us to provide cost effective maintenance, turnaround and construction services at our customers' refineries and petrochemical and other industrial facilities. 27 Strategic Initiatives We are committed to being a valued partner to our customers. We are focused on expanding those relationships by improving execution while also developing or acquiring innovative technologies and comprehensive services to enhance our capabilities to solve complex infrastructure problems. We are pursuing three strategic initiatives: Municipal Pipeline Rehabilitation The fundamental driver in the global municipal pipeline rehabilitation market is the growing gap between the need and current spend. While we do not expect the spending gap to close any time soon, the increasing need for pipeline rehabilitation supports a long-term sustainable market for the technologies and services offered by our Infrastructure Solutions segment. We are committed to maintaining our market leadership position in the rehabilitation of wastewater pipelines in North America using our cured-in-place pipe technology, the largest source of Aegion's consolidated revenues. We are also seeking to create a diverse portfolio of trenchless technologies to rehabilitate aging and damaged municipal pipelines. The focus today is growing our presence in the rehabilitation of pressure pipelines through both internal development and acquisitions. In 2016, we acquired Underground Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiary, Underground Solutions Technologies Group, Inc. (collectively, "Underground Solutions"), adding its patented Fusible PVC pipe technology to our pressure pipe portfolio, which includes Insituform CIPP, Tyfo Fibrwrap fiber-reinforce polymer ("FRP") and Tite Liner high-density polyethylene liner. Our international strategy is to use a blend of third-party product sales as well as CIPP and FRP contract installation operations in select markets. A key to the success of this strategy is a continuing focus on improving productivity to reduce costs and increase efficiencies across the entire value chain from engineering, manufacturing and installation of our technology-based solutions. Midstream Pipeline Integrity Management There are over one million miles of regulated pipelines in North America, which remains the safest and most cost effective mode of oil and gas transmission. Within our Corrosion Protection segment, we design and install cathodic protection systems to help prevent pipeline corrosion, which represents a majority of the revenues and profits for the segment. We also provide inspection services to monitor these systems and detect early signs of corrosion. We are making investments to create an asset integrity management program designed to increase the efficiency and accuracy of the pipeline corrosion assessment data we collect and upgrade how we share this valuable information with customers. We seek to improve customer regulatory compliance and add new services in the areas of data validation, advanced analytics and predictive maintenance. Downstream Refining and Industrial Facility Maintenance Through our Energy Services segment, we have long-term relationships with refinery and industrial customers on the United States West Coast. Our objective is to leverage those relationships to expand the services we provide in mechanical maintenance, electrical and instrumentation services, small capital construction and shutdown (or "turnaround") maintenance activity. There are opportunities in other industries on the West Coast such as pipelines and terminals, chemicals, industrial gas and power to leverage our experience in maintenance and construction services. Business Outlook We believe favorable end markets and the progress made over the last two years to advance our long-term strategy give us the opportunity to grow revenue and operating income across all three platforms in 2017, which is expected to result in strong earnings per share growth, greater cash generation and an increase in return on invested capital. Infrastructure Solutions We will make investments in 2017 to expand the use of Insituform CIPP in several regions currently underserved by Insituform in the North American wastewater pipeline market. Our objective is to maintain growth and our leading share in a large and mature market. Outside North America, we are selectively targeting markets in Europe for contract installation of Insituform CIPP to complement a strategy to grow third-party product sales across the continent. We are also pursuing additional contract installation opportunities in Australia and plan to grow third-party CIPP sales in several Asian countries. One of the most attractive areas for growth is in the rehabilitation of municipal pressure pipelines, primarily in North America. We have a diverse portfolio of solutions in a highly fragmented and growing North American market. We also have an attractive market in Asia-Pacific for large-diameter pressure pipe strengthening. We completed a research and development effort in 2016 that is expected to significantly reduce material and installation costs for Tyfo Fibrwrap technology while maintaining the superior material properties and quality of the technology. We also improved our InsituMain CIPP technology to give customers a more robust solution. These enhancements and favorable market conditions support our expectations for growth in 2017. With favorable end markets, strategic investments and technology enhancements, we expect Infrastructure Solutions in 2017 to grow revenues faster than the low-to-mid-single digit three-year target. However, operating margins will likely be slightly lower than in 2016 due to potential increases in oil-based raw materials and construction labor costs, especially in 28 North America, which was evident in the first quarter of 2017. We are employing continuous improvement processes in our CIPP manufacturing and contracting operations to partially offset these expected cost headwinds. Corrosion Protection We expect a modest recovery in 2017 from the impact caused by depressed oil prices over the last two years, which will be aided by the anticipated completion of a $130 million deepwater pipe coating and insulation project. Over 50 percent of Corrosion Protection's revenues comes from cathodic protection services for midstream oil and gas pipelines in North America, an attractive and growing market that we believe justifies further investment to outpace market growth. To that end, we plan to roll out our new asset integrity management system in 2017 for pipeline corrosion inspections. The new service will improve data accuracy and processing efficiency, customize the data transfer format (including geospatial mapping) and provide faster access to the information by customers. Corrosion Protection's pipeline inspection services are expected to create a multiplier effect for our other capabilities in direct pipeline inspections, engineering, cathodic protection system installation and pipeline corrosion remediation. Our objective is to expand the relationships with our top customers, who are the leading pipeline owners in North America, to accelerate revenue growth. Asset integrity management is an important element of that strategy and we expect to transition a number of those customers to the new system in 2017. With oil prices trading in a stable range since the fall of 2016, we have responded to more customer inquiries for our Tite Liner lining pipeline protection system, pipe coatings and insulation for the United States Gulf Coast region and field pipe coatings domestically and overseas. We are encouraged by the growing customer interest and believe the potential exists for a modestly improved energy market in 2017, especially in North America. The planned contribution from the deepwater project and anticipated modest recovery in the energy markets establishes our expectations for Corrosion Protection to grow revenues by mid-teens with mid-single digit operating margins in 2017. Energy Services We expect Energy Services to build on the momentum achieved in the second half of 2016 after completing the downsizing of its upstream operations in Central California and the Permian Basin as part of the 2016 Restructuring. The outlook for day-to-day downstream refinery maintenance remains robust based on long-term contracts and our position as the lead maintenance provider in 13 out of the 17 refineries on the United States West Coast. We have an effort underway to expand our services to those customers in mechanical maintenance, turnaround support, electrical and instrumentation maintenance and small capital construction activities. We also expect growth in 2017 from a greater number of turnaround, or refinery shutdown, activities. We will continue to improve operating efficiencies to maximize margins and cash generation. The favorable outlook we expect in 2017 supports mid-single digit revenue growth and operating margins above the results achieved in the fourth quarter of 2016. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures Acquisitions Our recent acquisition strategy has focused on the world's aging infrastructure and the investment needed to maintain infrastructure in North America and overseas. During 2017 and 2016, we targeted strategic acquisitions in the infrastructure sector by: i. adding patented Fusible PVC pipe technology to our pressure pipe rehabilitation portfolio through the acquisition of Underground Solutions; ii. expanding our CIPP presence in Europe by acquiring the CIPP contracting operations of Leif M. Jensen A/S ("LMJ"), a Danish company and the Insituform licensee in Denmark since 2011, and acquiring Environmental Techniques Limited and its parent holding company, Killeen Trading Limited (collectively "Environmental Techniques"), a Northern Ireland-based provider of trenchless drainage inspection, cleaning and rehabilitation services throughout the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland; iii. acquiring the remaining worldwide rights that we did not already own to market, manufacture and install the patented Tyfo Fibrwrap FRP technology by acquiring the operations and territories of Fyfe Europe S.A. and related companies ("Fyfe Europe"); and iv. expanding our FRP presence in Asia through the acquisition of Concrete Solutions Limited ("CSL") and Building Chemical Supplies Limited ("BCS"), two New Zealand-based companies that operated as a Fibrwrap certified applicator in New Zealand for a number of years (collectively, "Concrete Solutions" ). See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for additional information and disclosures regarding our acquisitions. 29 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, our board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce our exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. During 2016, we completed the restructuring, which (i) repositioned Energy Services' upstream operations in California, (ii) reduced Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting our interest in Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), our Canadian pipe coating joint venture, (iii) right-sized Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and (iv) reduced corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring reduced consolidated annual costs by approximately $17.4 million , of which approximately $1.2 million , $6.6 million and $5.6 million related to recognized savings within Infrastructure Solutions, Corrosion Protection and Energy Services, respectively, and $4.0 million related to reduced corporate costs. Cost savings were achieved primarily through office closures and reducing headcount by approximately 964 employees, or 15.5% of our total workforce as of December 31, 2015. There were no expenses incurred in the first quarter of 2017 related to the 2016 Restructuring. Total pre-tax 2016 Restructuring charges recorded during 2016 were $16.1 million ( $10.3 million after tax), most of which were cash charges, consisting primarily of employee severance and benefits, early lease terminations and other costs associated with the restructuring efforts as described above. We do not expect to incur any future charges related to the 2016 Restructuring. 2014 Restructuring On October 6, 2014, our board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2014 Restructuring") which included the decision to exit Insituform's contracting markets in France, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore. We have substantially completed all of the objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. See Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this Report for a detailed discussion regarding strategic initiatives and restructuring efforts. Results of Operations Quarters Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Overview Consolidated Results Key financial data for consolidated operations was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. Revenues Revenues increase d $31.3 million , or 10.6% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The increase in revenues was due to a $30.9 million increase in Corrosion Protection primarily driven by production on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation and a $3.1 million increase in Infrastructure Solutions primarily related to an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity in our European and North American operations, partially offset by a decline in revenues related to a decrease in FRP project activity in our North American operation. Revenues in Energy Services decreased $2.8 million primarily due to a decline in upstream construction project activities, which were completed in early 2016 as part of our 2016 Restructuring. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit increase d $13.0 million , or 23.9% , and gross profit margin improve d 220 basis points in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The increase in gross profit was mainly due to a $10.8 million increase in Corrosion Protection primarily from higher revenues in our pipe coating and insulation operation, as noted above. Gross profit 30 increased $1.5 million in Infrastructure Solutions primarily due to higher revenues and improved efficiencies in CIPP contracting installation services activity in our North American operation and a $1.2 million expense in the first quarter of 2016 related to the recognition of inventory step up related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions in February 2016, partially offset by a decline in FRP project activity in our North American operation. Gross profit increased $0.7 million in Energy Services primarily due to improved efficiencies in refinery maintenance and turnaround services activities. Gross profit margin increased mainly due to the contribution from Corrosion Protection, which experienced higher margins generated primarily from a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation. Also contributing to the improvement in gross profit margin were the absence of inventory step up expense and improved project performance in our North American CIPP operations in Infrastructure Solutions and improved efficiencies and elimination of upstream, lump sum cost overruns in Energy Services. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increase d $2.0 million , or 4.0% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring, we recognized expense reversals of $0.3 million and charges of $2.7 million in the first quarter s of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses increase d $5.0 million , or 10.4% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The increase in operating expenses was mainly due to: (i) a $4.4 million increase in Infrastructure Solutions primarily from business acquisitions made in North America and Europe during 2016, which resulted in a full quarter of operating expenses recognized in the first quarter of 2017, and added sales and business development costs as part of our growth initiative; and (ii) a $0.6 million increase in Corrosion Protection primarily due to employee incentive costs and other general and administrative expenses. In Energy Services, operating expenses in the first quarter of 2017 were consistent with the prior year quarter. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.2% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 17.3% in the first quarter of 2016 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.3% in both periods. Consolidated Net Income (Loss) Consolidated net income was $5.9 million in the first quarter of 2017 , an increase of $9.7 million , or 254.8% , from a consolidated net loss from continuing operations of $3.8 million in the first quarter of 2016 . Included in consolidated net income (loss) were the following pre-tax items: (i) expense reversal related to the 2014 Restructuring of $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2017 and $9.6 million in charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and 2016 Restructuring in the first quarter of 2016 ; (ii) acquisition-related expenses of $0.5 million and $1.0 million in the first quarter s of 2017 and 2016 , respectively; and (iii) inventory step up costs of $1.2 million in the first quarter of 2016 in Infrastructure Solutions related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions. Excluding the above items, consolidated net income was $6.1 million in the first quarter of 2017 , an increase of $1.8 million , or 40.5% , from $4.3 million in the first quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to higher revenues, gross profit and operating income in Corrosion Protection related to production on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation as well as an increase in operating income in Energy Services related to improved gross profit margins, as noted above. Partially offsetting the increase in consolidated net income was a decrease from lower operating income in Infrastructure Solutions primarily from a decline in FRP project activity in our North American operation and business acquisitions made in North America and Europe during 2016, which resulted in a full quarter of operating expenses recognized in the first quarter of 2017 versus partial or zero operating expenses recognized in the first quarter of 2016 for each acquisition. Consolidated net income in the first quarter of 2017, as compared to the first quarter of 2016, was also negatively impacted by an increase in interest expense due to higher prevailing interest rates and a higher effective income tax rate due to a $1.9 million benefit recorded in the first quarter of 2016 related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance in the U.S. due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. Contract Backlog Contract backlog is our expectation of revenues to be generated from received, signed and uncompleted contracts, the cancellation of which is not anticipated at the time of reporting. We assume that these signed contracts are funded. For government or municipal contracts, our customers generally obtain funding through local budgets or pre-approved bond financing. We have not undertaken a process to verify funding status of these contracts and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate what portion, if any, of our contracts in backlog have not been funded. However, we have little history of signed contracts being canceled due to the lack of funding. Contract backlog excludes any term contract amounts for which there are not specific and determinable work releases or values beyond a renewal date in the forward 12-month period. Projects where we have been advised that we are the low bidder, but have not formally been awarded the contract, are not included. Although backlog represents only those contracts and Master Service Agreements ("MSAs") that are considered to be firm, there can be no assurance that cancellation or scope adjustments will not occur with respect to such contracts. 31 The following table sets forth our consolidated backlog by segment (in millions): __________________________ (1) March 31, 2017, December 31, 2016 and March 31, 2016 included backlog from our large, domestic deepwater pipe coating and insulation contract of $51.7 million , $96.8 million and $134.5 million , respectively. (2) Represents expected unrecognized revenues to be realized under long-term MSAs and other signed contracts. If the remaining term of these arrangements exceeds 12 months, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such arrangements included in backlog are limited to only the next 12 months of expected revenues. Within our Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection segments, certain contracts are performed through our variable interest entities, in which we own a controlling portion of the entity. As of March31, 2017 , 1.1% and 21.6% of our Infrastructure Solutions backlog and Corrosion Protection backlog, respectively, related to these variable interest entities. A substantial majority of our contracts in these two segments are fixed price contracts with individual private businesses and municipal and federal government entities across the world. Energy Services generally enters into cost reimbursable contracts that are based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. Consolidated customer orders, net of cancellations ("New Orders") increased $75.1 million, or 29.1%, to $333.1 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to $258.0 million in the first quarter of 2016. Infrastructure Solutions Segment Key financial data for Infrastructure Solutions was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. Revenues Revenues in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $3.1 million , or 2.5% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity in our European and North American operations. Also contributing to the increase in revenues were contributions from Underground Solutions, which was acquired in February 2016, as well as smaller acquisitions in the CIPP market in Europe and the FRP market in Asia-Pacific made during the second and third quarters of 2016. Partially offsetting the increases in revenues was a decrease in FRP project activity due to lower fourth quarter 2016 FRP contract backlog levels in our North American operation. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $1.5 million , or 5.1% , and gross profit margin improve d 60 basis points in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The increase in gross profit was primarily due to an increase 32 in CIPP contracting installation services activity in our North American and European operations and a $1.2 million expense in the first quarter of 2016 related to the recognition of inventory step up required in the accounting for business combinations related to the Underground Solutions acquisition. The increases in gross profit were partially offset by a decline in FRP project activity in our North American operation and lower project performance in our Asia-Pacific operation specifically related to CIPP contracting installation services activity in Australia. Gross profit margin increased mainly due to the absence of inventory step up expense in the first quarter of 2017 related to the Underground Solutions acquisition and improved CIPP contracting installation services performance in our North American operation, partially offset by lower project performance from CIPP contracting installation services in our Asia-Pacific operation. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $4.2 million , or 20.0% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to: (i) incremental operating expense contributions from Underground Solutions, which was acquired in February 2016, as well as smaller acquisitions in the CIPP market in Europe and the FRP market in Asia-Pacific during the second and third quarters of 2016; and (ii) investments made to hire experienced sales and business development professionals in our North American FRP operation to facilitate growth. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 19.5% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 16.6% in the first quarter of 2016 . Operating Income and Operating Margin Operating income in Infrastructure Solutions decrease d $0.2 million , or 3.4% , to $5.6 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to $5.8 million in the first quarter of 2016 . Operating margin decline d 20 basis points to 4.4% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 4.6% in the first quarter of 2016 . Included in operating income are the following items: (i) expense reversal related to the 2014 Restructuring of $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2017 and charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and 2016 Restructuring of $2.0 million in the first quarter of 2016 , (ii) $0.5 million and $1.0 million in acquisition-related expenses in the first quarter s of 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and (iii) inventory step up costs related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions of $1.2 million in the first quarter of 2016. Excluding these items, operating income decrease d $4.0 million , or 39.5% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 and operating margin decline d 330 basis points to 4.7% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 8.0% in the first quarter of 2016 . Operating income and operating margin decreased primarily due to increased operating expenses related to incremental expense contribution from acquisitions made in 2016 and added sales and business development costs as part of our growth initiative, as noted above, partially offset by a decline in gross profit. Corrosion Protection Segment Key financial data for Corrosion Protection was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. Revenues Revenues in Corrosion Protection increase d $30.9 million , or 33.5% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a $32.1 million increase in revenues in our pipe coating and insulation operation driven by production on a large deepwater project. Also contributing to the increase in revenues was an increase in 33 project activities in our cathodic protection operation primarily in the United States. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues was a decline in project activities in our industrial linings operation, which benefited from a large project in South America in the first quarter of 2016. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Corrosion Protection increase d $10.8 million , or 62.6% , and gross profit margin improve d 410 basis points in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . Gross profit increase d primarily due to production on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation and, to a lesser extent, improved gross profit from our coating services operation, which incurred added costs on certain fixed fee projects in the Middle East in the first quarter of 2016. Partially offsetting the increases in gross profit were decreases in our cathodic protection operation as a result of project mix and lower project performance, and in our industrial linings operation, which benefited from a large project in South America in the first quarter of 2016. Gross profit margin improved primarily due to higher margins generated from the large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation and improved margin performance in our coating services operation which incurred added costs on certain projects in the Middle East in the first quarter of 2016. Partially offsetting the increase in gross profit margin was a decline resulting from project mix and lower project performance in our cathodic protection operation. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Corrosion Protection increase d $0.3 million , or 1.5% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized $0.3 million related to the downsizing of certain upstream and midstream operations in the first quarter of 2016. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses increased $0.6 million primarily due to employee incentive costs and other general and administrative expenses. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.8% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 22.1% in the first quarter of 2016 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 21.8% in the first quarter of 2016. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenues was due to the growth in revenues, as noted above. Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income in Corrosion Protection increase d $12.9 million , or 227.2% , to $7.2 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $5.7 million in the first quarter of 2016 . Operating margin improve d 1,190 basis points to 5.8% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to (6.1)% in the first quarter of 2016 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $2.7 million in the first quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income increase d $10.1 million , or 345.9% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 and operating margin improve d 900 basis points to 5.8% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to (3.2)% in the first quarter of 2016 . The increases in operating income and operating margin were primarily due to increased gross profit and related gross profit margin contribution from the large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation as well as improved contribution from our coating services operation, partially offset by lower contributions from our cathodic protection and industrial linings operations, as discussed above. Energy Services Segment Key financial data for Energy Services was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. Revenues 34 Revenues in Energy Services decrease d $2.8 million , or 3.7% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The decrease was primarily due to a decline in upstream construction project activities which were completed in early 2016 as we downsized our exposure to the upstream energy market as part of our 2016 Restructuring. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues were increases in maintenance and turnaround services activities. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Energy Services increase d $0.7 million , or 9.7% , and gross profit margin improve d 130 basis points in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . The increase in gross profit was primarily due to improved efficiencies in maintenance and turnaround services activities and the elimination of cost overruns on certain upstream, lump sum construction projects recognized in the first quarter of 2016. Gross profit margin improved mainly as a result of higher utilization rates as we completed our restructuring activities during 2016, including the completion of certain under-performing upstream projects. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Energy Services decreased $2.5 million , or 26.3% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $2.5 million in the first quarter of 2016 primarily related to wind-down and other restructuring-related costs to downsize our upstream operation. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses were consistent at $6.9 million for both periods. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.4% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 12.4% in the first quarter of 2016 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.4% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 9.1% in the first quarter of 2016 . Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income in Energy Services increase d $5.6 million , or 130.7% , to $1.3 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $4.3 million in the first quarter of 2016 . Operating margin improve d 740 basis points to 1.8% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to (5.6)% in the first quarter of 2016 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits, early lease termination, wind-down and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income increase d $0.7 million , or 128.0% , in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 and operating margin improve d 100 basis points to 1.8% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 0.8% in the first quarter of 2016 . The increases in operating income and operating margin were primarily due to increased gross profit and related gross profit margin contribution, as noted above. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income and Expense Interest income increase d less than $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year quarter. Interest expense increase d $0.4 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year quarter due to higher LIBOR-based borrowing costs under our Credit Facility, partially offset by lower average debt balances in the current year period. Other Income (Expense) Other expense was $0.4 million in the first quarter of 2017 and $1.0 million in the first quarter of 2016 and primarily consisted of foreign currency transaction losses in both periods. Taxes on Income Taxes on income increase d $6.7 million during the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . Our effective tax rate for continuing operations was 20.5% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to a benefit of 54.6% in the first quarter of 2016. The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2017 was favorably impacted by the reversal of previously recorded valuation allowances due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits, primarily in the United States. The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2016 was favorably impacted by a $1.9 million benefit related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance in the U.S. due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. Non-controlling Interests Income attributable to non-controlling interests was $1.9 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to a loss attributable to non-controlling interests of $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2016. In the first quarter of 2017, income was primarily driven 35 from our joint venture in Louisiana, which continued its work on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation. Our joint ventures in Oman, Saudi Arabia and Mexico also contributed positive earnings in the first quarter of 2017. In the first quarter of 2016, losses from our joint ventures in Mexico, Saudi Arabia and Louisiana were partially offset by profitability from our joint venture in Oman. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents Restricted cash held in escrow primarily relates to funds reserved for legal requirements, deposits made in lieu of retention on specific projects performed for municipalities and state agencies, or advance customer payments and compensating balances for bank undertakings in Europe. Changes in restricted cash flows are reported in the consolidated statements of cash flows based on the nature of the restriction. Sources and Uses of Cash We expect the principal operational use of funds for the foreseeable future will be for capital expenditures, working capital, debt service, share repurchases and potential acquisitions. During the first quarter of 2017 , capital expenditures were primarily related to growth and maintenance capital related to the CIPP operations in Infrastructure Solutions, primarily in the United States and Europe. For 2017, we expect a similar overall level of capital expenditures as was made in 2016, with slightly increased capital expenditures to support the growth in Infrastructure Solutions and to expand our domestic cathodic protection facilities, offset by the 2016 completion of the pipe coating and insulation plant in Corrosion Protection. Under the terms of our Credit Facility, we are authorized to annually purchase up to $40 million of our common stock in open market transactions, subject to Board of Director authorization. The shares are repurchased from time to time in the open market, subject to cash availability, market conditions and other factors, and in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. We are not obligated to acquire any particular amount of common stock and, subject to applicable regulatory requirements, may commence, suspend or discontinue purchases at any time without notice or authorization. In October 2016, our Board of Directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to $40.0 million of our common stock to be made during 2017. Any shares repurchased during 2017 are expected to be funded primarily through cash balances. During the first quarter of 2017 , we acquired 366,914 shares of our common stock for $8.4 million ( $22.82 average price per share) through the open market repurchase program discussed above. In addition, we repurchased 95,403 shares of our common stock for $2.1 million ( $22.37 average price per share) in connection with the satisfaction of tax obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance units. Once repurchased, we promptly retire such shares. At March31, 2017 , our cash balances were located worldwide for working capital, potential acquisitions and support needs. Given the breadth of our international operations, approximately $53.1 million, or 60.6%, of our cash was denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar as of March31, 2017 . We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences or be subject to regulatory capital requirements; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. With few exceptions, U.S. income taxes, net of applicable foreign tax credits, have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries. Our intention is to permanently reinvest these earnings. Our primary source of cash is operating activities. We occasionally borrow under our line of credit's available capacity to fund operating activities, including working capital investments. Our operating activities include the collection of accounts receivable as well as the ultimate billing and collection of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings. At March31, 2017 , we believed our net accounts receivable and our costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, as reported on our consolidated balance sheet, were fully collectible and a significant portion of the receivables will be collected within the next twelve months. From time to time, we have net receivables recorded that we believe will be collected but are being disputed by the customer in some manner. Disputes of this nature could meaningfully impact the timing of receivable collection or require us to invoke our contractual or legal rights in a lawsuit or alternative dispute resolution proceeding. If in a future period we 36 determine that any of these receivables are no longer collectible, we will increase our allowance for bad debts through a charge to earnings. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operating activities used $26.3 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to $2.0 million used in the first quarter of 2016 . This follows the typical pattern of cash flow from operating activities being at its seasonally lowest during the first quarter of the year. The decrease in operating cash flow from the prior year period was primarily due to lower cash flows related to working capital as a result of the timing of customer payments. Working capital used $56.5 million of cash during the first quarter of 2017 compared to $11.6 million used in the first quarter of 2016 , primarily due to the timing of customer payments on certain large projects, including the domestic deepwater pipe coating and insulation project in Corrosion Protection and maintenance support services for several turnarounds in Energy Services. During the first quarter of 2017 , cash flow used by working capital requirements was negatively impacted by the timing of customer payments received on a large domestic project in our pipe coating and insulation operation, which also increased days sales outstanding approximately seven days at March31, 2017 compared to March31, 2016 . We expect the outflows experienced during the first quarter to reverse in the second and third quarters of 2017. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities used $11.1 million during the first quarter of 2017 compared to $91.8 million used during the first quarter of 2016 . During the first quarter of 2017 , we used 6.5 million , approximately $8.0 million , to acquire Environmental Techniques. During the first quarter of 2016, we used $85.2 million to acquire Underground Solutions. During the first quarter of 2016, we received proceeds of $4.6 million, net of cash disposed, from the sale of our interest in our Canadian pipe coating operation. We used $3.9 million in cash for capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2017 compared to $10.1 million in the prior year period. In the first quarter s of 2017 and 2016 , $1.0 million and $1.1 million, respectively, of non-cash capital expenditures were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Capital expenditures in the first quarter s of 2017 and 2016 were partially offset by $0.2 million and $1.0 million , respectively, in proceeds received from asset disposals. We anticipate approximately $35.0 million to $40.0 million to be spent in 2017 on capital expenditures to support our global operations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities used $5.4 million during the first quarter of 2017 compared to $13.3 million provided in the first quarter of 2016 . During the first quarter s of 2017 and 2016 , we used net cash of $10.5 million and $16.3 million , respectively, to repurchase 462,317 and 910,656 shares, respectively, of our common stock through open market purchases and in connection with our equity compensation programs as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report. During the first quarter of 2017, we borrowed $10.0 million from our line of credit to fund temporary domestic working capital needs, and we used cash of $4.4 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan. During the first quarter of 2016, we had net borrowings of $34.0 million from our line of credit primarily to fund our acquisition activity, and we used cash of $4.4 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan. Long-Term Debt In October 2015, we entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of banks. The Credit Facility consists of a $300.0 million five -year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five -year term loan facility, each with an original maturity date in October 2020. Our indebtedness at March31, 2017 consisted of $323.8 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the Credit Facility and $46.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. During the first quarter of 2017, we borrowed $10.0 million on the line of credit for domestic working capital needs. Additionally, we designated $9.6 million of debt held by our joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by our joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.3 million of third-party notes and bank debt at March31, 2017 . As of March31, 2017 , we had $32.7 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the Credit Facility. Of such amount, $15.1 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $17.5 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. In October 2015, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrors the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of our $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires us to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for us to receive a payment based upon a variable 37 monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated on the same amortizing $262.5 million notional amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of our term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The Credit Facility is subject to certain financial covenants including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at March31, 2017 and expect continued compliance for the foreseeable future. We believe that we have adequate resources and liquidity to fund future cash requirements and debt repayments with cash generated from operations, existing cash balances and additional short- and long-term borrowing capacity for the next 12 months. We expect cash generated from operations to increase in 2017 due to improved earnings, working capital management initiatives and the cost savings generated through our restructuring efforts. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for additional information and disclosures regarding our long-term debt. Disclosure of Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments There were no material changes in contractual obligations and commercial commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further discussion regarding our commitments and contingencies.Item 1. Financial Statements AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except per share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 3 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (in thousands) __________________________ (1) Amounts presented net of tax of $(204) and $(325) for the quarters ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $117 and $(2,717) for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. (2) Amounts presented net of tax of $(3) and $(13) for the quarters ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $(4) and $(43) for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 4 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (in thousands, except share amounts) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 5 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (Unaudited) (in thousands, except number of shares) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 6 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (in thousands) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 7 AEGION CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1.GENERAL The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of Aegion Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Aegion" or the "Company") reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the dates and periods presented. Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected during the remainder of the current year or for any future period. All significant intercompany related accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016, which is derived from the audited consolidated financial statements, and the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), the requirements of Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X and, consequently, do not include all information or footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements or all the disclosures normally made in an Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, the unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes included in the Company's 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2017. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce the Company's exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. The 2016 Restructuring repositioned Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reduced Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sized Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reduced corporate and other operating costs. See Note 3. Infrastructure Solutions Segment ("Infrastructure Solutions") On March 1, 2017, the Company acquired Environmental Techniques Limited and its parent holding company, Killeen Trading Limited (collectively "Environmental Techniques"), for a purchase price of 6.5 million , approximately $8.0 million , which was funded from the Company's international cash balances. The purchase price is subject to post-closing working capital adjustments and included 1.0 million , approximately $1.2 million , held in escrow as security for any post-closing purchase price adjustments and post-closing indemnification obligations of Environmental Techniques' previous owners. Environmental Techniques provides trenchless drainage inspection, cleaning and rehabilitation services throughout the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland . On July 1, 2016, the Company acquired Concrete Solutions Limited ("CSL") and Building Chemical Supplies Limited ("BCS"), two New Zealand companies (collectively, "Concrete Solutions" ), for a purchase price paid at closing of NZD 7.5 million , approximately $5.5 million , which was funded from the Company's cash balances. The sellers have the ability to earn up to an additional NZD 2.0 million , approximately $1.4 million , of proceeds based on reaching certain performance targets in 2017, 2018 and 2019. CSL provides structural strengthening, concrete repair and bridge jointing solutions primarily through application of fiber reinforced polymer ( "FRP" ) and injection resins and had served as a Fibrwrap certified applicator in New Zealand for a number of years. BCS imports and distributes materials, including fiber reinforced polymer, injection resins, repair mortars and protective coatings . On June 2, 2016, the Company acquired the cured-in-place pipe ("CIPP") contracting operations of Leif M. Jensen A/S ("LMJ"), a Danish company and the Insituform licensee in Denmark since 2011. The purchase price was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million , and was funded from the Company's international cash balances. On May 13, 2016, the Company acquired the operations and territories of Fyfe Europe S.A. and related companies ("Fyfe Europe") for a purchase price of $3.0 million . The transaction was funded from the Company's cash balances. Fyfe Europe held rights to provide Fibrwrap product engineering and support to installers and applicators of FRP systems in 72 countries throughout Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. The acquisition of these territories now provides the Company with worldwide rights to market, manufacture and install the patented Tyfo Fibrwrap FRP technology. 8 On February 18, 2016, the Company acquired Underground Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiary, Underground Solutions Technologies Group, Inc. (collectively, "Underground Solutions"), for an initial purchase price of $85.0 million plus an additional $5.0 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards. The transaction was funded partially from the Company's cash balances and partially from borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility. Underground Solutions provides infrastructure technologies for water, sewer and conduit applications. On October 6, 2014, the Company's board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2014 Restructuring") which included the decision to exit CIPP contracting markets in France, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore. The Company has substantially completed all of the objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. Corrosion Protection Segment ("Corrosion Protection") On February 1, 2016, the Company sold its fifty-one percent ( 51% ) interest in its Canadian pipe coating joint venture, Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), to its joint venture partner, Perma-Pipe, Inc. The sale price was $9.6 million , which consisted of a $7.6 million payment at closing and a $2.0 million promissory note, which was paid on July 28, 2016. BPPC served as the Company's pipe coating and insulation operation in Canada. The sale of its interest in BPPC was part of a broader effort by the Company to reduce its exposure in the North American upstream market in light of expectations for a prolonged low oil price environment. Purchase Price Accounting During the first six months of 2017, the Company determined its preliminary accounting for Environmental Techniques and finalized its accounting for Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe and LMJ. The accounting for Concrete Solutions is substantially complete with the exception of final purchase price adjustments. There were no significant adjustments to the purchase price accounting for Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions during the first six months of 2017. As the Company completes its final accounting for the Environmental Techniques and Concrete Solutions acquisitions, future adjustments related to working capital, deferred income taxes, definite-lived intangible assets and goodwill could occur. The goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Fyfe Europe and LMJ acquisitions are deductible for tax purposes; whereas, the goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets associated with the Environmental Techniques, Underground Solutions and Concrete Solutions acquisitions are not deductible for tax purposes. Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ, Concrete Solutions and Environmental Techniques made the following contributions to the Company's revenues and profits (in thousands): _____________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. (1) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $0.7 million . (2) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions includes inventory step-up expense of $2.4 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations. 9 _____________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. (1) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions includes an allocation of corporate expenses of $1.1 million . (2) The reported net loss for Underground Solutions includes inventory step-up expense of $3.6 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations, and an allocation of corporate expenses of $1.3 million . The following pro forma summary presents combined information of the Company as if the Environmental Techniques, Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year preceding their acquisition (in thousands, except earnings per share): _____________________ (1) Includes pro-forma results related to Environmental Techniques, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions. (2) Includes pro-forma results related to Environmental Techniques. (3) Includes pro-forma results related to Environmental Techniques, Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and Concrete Solutions. (4) Includes pro-forma adjustments for depreciation and amortization associated with acquired tangible and intangible assets, as if those assets were recorded at the beginning of the year preceding the acquisition date. The transaction purchase price to acquire Environmental Techniques was 6.5 million , approximately $8.0 million , which represented cash consideration paid at closing. The transaction purchase price to acquire Underground Solutions was $88.4 million , which included: (i) a payment at closing of $85.0 million ; (ii) a payment of $5.0 million for the value of the estimated tax benefits associated with Underground Solutions' net operating loss carry forwards; and (iii) working capital adjustments of $1.6 million payable to the Company. The transaction purchase price to acquire Fyfe Europe was $3.0 million , which represented cash consideration paid at closing of $2.8 million plus $0.2 million of deferred contingent consideration, which was paid during the first quarter of 2017. The transaction purchase price to acquire LMJ was 2.9 million , approximately $3.2 million , which was paid at closing. The transaction purchase price to acquire Concrete Solutions was NZD 8.9 million , approximately $6.4 million , which included: (i) a payment at closing of NZD 7.5 million , approximately $5.5 million ; (ii) a preliminary working capital adjustment payable to the sellers of NZD 0.2 million , approximately $0.1 million ; and (iii) the estimated fair value of earnout consideration of NZD 1.2 million , approximately $0.9 million , which was recorded to "Other non-current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at June30, 2017 . During the second quarter of 2017, the Company reversed $0.1 million of the earnout consideration due to operating results being below the target amounts in the purchase agreement. The accrual adjustment resulted in an offset to "Operating expense" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of June 30, 2017, the Company calculated the fair value of the contingent consideration agreement to be NZD 1.0 million , approximately $0.8 million . The fair value estimate was determined using observable inputs and significant unobservable inputs, which are based on level 3 inputs as defined in Note 11. 10 The following table summarizes the fair value of identified assets and liabilities of the Environmental Techniques acquisition at its acquisition date (in thousands): 2.ACCOUNTING POLICIES There were no material changes in accounting policies from those disclosed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . Foreign Currency Translation For the Company's international subsidiaries, the local currency is generally the functional currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using rates in effect at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The cumulative translation adjustment resulting from changes in exchange rates are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in total stockholders' equity. The Company's accumulated other comprehensive loss is comprised of three main components: (i) currency translation; (ii) gains and losses associated with the Company's defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom; and (iii) derivatives (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar, there was a substantial increase during the first six months of 2017, primarily the second quarter of 2017, with respect to certain functional currencies and their relation to the U.S. dollar, most notably the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, British pound and euro. Net foreign exchange transaction losses of $0.5 million and $0.5 million in the second quarters of 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $0.9 million and $1.6 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, are included in "Other expense" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Investments in Variable Interest Entities The Company evaluates all transactions and relationships with variable interest entities ("VIE") to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entities in accordance with FASB ASC 810, Consolidation. 11 The Company's overall methodology for evaluating transactions and relationships under the VIE requirements includes the following two steps: determine whether the entity meets the criteria to qualify as a VIE; and determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE. In performing the first step, the significant factors and judgments that the Company considers in making the determination as to whether an entity is a VIE include: the design of the entity, including the nature of its risks and the purpose for which the entity was created, to determine the variability that the entity was designed to create and distribute to its interest holders; the nature of the Company's involvement with the entity; whether control of the entity may be achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting equity; whether there is sufficient equity investment at risk to finance the activities of the entity; and whether parties other than the equity holders have the obligation to absorb expected losses or the right to receive residual returns. If the Company identifies a VIE based on the above considerations, it then performs the second step and evaluates whether it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE by considering the following significant factors and judgments: whether the entity has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance; and whether the entity has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. Based on its evaluation of the above factors and judgments, as of June 30, 2017 , the Company consolidated any VIEs in which it was the primary beneficiary. Financial data for consolidated variable interest entities are summarized in the following table (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first six months of 2017, changes were primarily driven from our joint venture in Louisiana, which continued its work on a large deepwater pipe coating and insulation project. Newly Issued Accounting Pronouncements In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test. The standard requires an entity to perform its goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge should be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value. The standard was effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020, but early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. The Company's adoption of this standard, effective January 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance requiring that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. As a result, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. 12 This new guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted, and the new guidance is to be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements, other than the classification of restricted cash on the consolidated statement of cash flows. In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted, and the new guidance is to be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its statement of cash flows. In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance that simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment awards to employees, including the accounting for income taxes, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the statement of cash flows. The standard was effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017, including interim periods within the year. The Company's adoption of this standard, effective January 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance that requires lessees to present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases with lease terms longer than twelve months. The standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted. Entities are required to use the modified retrospective approach for all existing leases as of the effective date; however, the standard provides for certain practical expedients. The Company is currently evaluating the effect the guidance will have on its financial condition and results of operations, including an analysis of its current lease contracts as well as other existing arrangements to determine if they qualify for lease accounting under the new standard. In November 2015, the FASB issued guidance that requires all deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowance, to be presented as non-current within the Consolidated Balance Sheet. It was effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017, including interim periods within the year . The Company's adoption of this standard, effective January 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Prior period balances were not retrospectively adjusted. In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance that supersedes revenue recognition requirements regarding contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or for the transfer of non-financial assets. Under the new guidance, entities are required to recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step analysis to be performed on transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. This new guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018. Early adoption is permitted, although the Company does not intend to do so. Entities are allowed to transition to the new standard either on a full retrospective basis or under the cumulative effect method whereby the entity applies the new revenue standard as of the date of initial application without restatement of comparative period amounts. In early 2016, the Company identified a project manager as well as a cross-functional implementation team responsible for assessing the impact on its contracts. During the second quarter of 2017, the implementation team: (i) finalized the assessment phase, which included the identification of the Company's key revenue streams (fixed fee, time and materials, product sales and royalty fees from license arrangements) and the comparison of historical accounting policies and practices to the requirements of the new revenue standard; (ii) finalized the contract review phase, which included identifying the population of contracts and a deep analysis of the new standard on individual contract terms; and (iii) made substantial progress in the process of identifying potential changes to business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. Based on the conclusions of the assessment phase, the Company determined that the majority of its revenues, which are earned from construction, engineering and installation services and currently recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, are expected to follow a revenue recognition pattern consistent with current practice. The Company also determined that revenues related to time and materials projects and product sales are expected to follow a revenue recognition pattern consistent with current practice. The Company identified required changes under the new guidance for the recognition of royalty fees and the capitalization of contract fees. Approved change orders and revised cost estimates could result in cumulative catch up adjustments to revenues under certain circumstances. The Company is implementing changes to its financial reporting process to comply with the disclosure requirements of the new guidance including: (i) changes to balances in contract assets and contract liabilities; and (ii) disaggregation of revenues. The Company plans to finalize the impacts of the new revenue standard on its operations, financial position and disclosures, as well as the determination of its transition method, in the third and fourth quarters of 2017, prior to its adoption in the first quarter of 2018. 13 3.RESTRUCTURING On January 4, 2016, the Company's board of directors approved the 2016 Restructuring to reduce its exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. During 2016, the Company completed its restructuring, which included repositioning Energy Services' upstream operations in California, reducing Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting its interest in a Canadian pipe coating joint venture, right-sizing Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively and reducing corporate and other operating costs. Cost savings were achieved primarily through office closures and headcount reductions of 964 employees, or 15.5% of the Company's total workforce as of December 31, 2015. Total pre-tax 2016 Restructuring charges recorded since inception were $16.1 million ( $10.3 million after tax) and consisted of employee severance, retention, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs and other restructuring costs associated with the restructuring efforts described above. The vast majority of 2016 Restructuring costs were cash charges. There were no expenses incurred in the first six months of 2017 related to the 2016 Restructuring. During the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company recorded pre-tax expenses related to the 2016 Restructuring as follows (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Includes charges primarily related to downsizing the Company's upstream operations in California, inclusive of wind-down costs, professional fees, fixed asset disposals and certain other restructuring charges. (2) Includes $0.2 million of corporate-related restructuring charges that have been allocated to the reportable segments. __________________________ (1) Includes charges primarily related to downsizing the Company's upstream operations in California, inclusive of wind-down costs, professional fees, fixed asset disposals and certain other restructuring charges. (2) Includes $1.2 million of corporate-related restructuring charges that have been allocated to the reportable segments. 2016 Restructuring costs related to severance, other termination benefit costs and early lease termination costs were zero and $1.5 million for the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and zero and $8.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and are reported on a separate line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in accordance with FASB ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations . 14 The following tables summarize all charges related to the 2016 Restructuring recognized in the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 as presented in their affected line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Cash charges consist of charges incurred during the period that will be settled in cash, either during the current period or future periods. (2) All charges for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016 related to Corrosion Protection. (3) Includes charges of $0.4 million and $0.6 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Infrastructure Solutions. Includes charges of $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Corrosion Protection. Includes charges of $1.5 million and $3.9 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Energy Services. (4) Includes charges of $0.6 million and $2.5 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Infrastructure Solutions. Includes charges of $0.8 million and $3.2 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Corrosion Protection. Includes charges of $0.1 million and $2.5 million for the quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2016, respectively, related to Energy Services. (5) All charges relate to the release of cumulative currency translation adjustments in Infrastructure Solutions. The following tables summarize the 2016 Restructuring activity during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges that were reserved at December 31, 2016. __________________________ (1) Refers to cash utilized to settle charges during the first six months of 2016. 15 4.SHARE INFORMATION Earnings per share have been calculated using the following share information: The Company excluded 435,722 stock options and restricted and deferred stock units for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the Company's common stock because of the reported net loss for the period. The Company excluded 77,807 and 160,191 stock options for the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and 77,807 and 160,191 stock options for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, from the diluted earnings per share calculations for the Company's common stock because they were anti-dilutive as their exercise prices were greater than the average market price of common shares for each period. 5.GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the Company's goodwill at January 1, 2017 and June30, 2017 (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first six months of 2017, the Company recorded goodwill of $3.4 million related to the acquisition of Environmental Techniques (see Note 1). 16 Identified Intangible Assets Identified intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands): __________________________ (1) During the first six months of 2017, the Company recorded trademarks of $0.1 million and customer relationships of $1.7 million related to the acquisition of Environmental Techniques (see Note 1). Amortization expense was $4.4 million and $4.2 million for the quarters ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $8.7 million and $8.0 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Estimated amortization expense by year is as follows (in thousands): 6.LONG-TERM DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITY Financing Arrangements Long-term debt, term note and notes payable consisted of the following (in thousands): In October 2015, the Company entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of banks. Bank of America, N.A. served as the sole administrative agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association acted as co-syndication agents. Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Securities LLC and U.S. Bank National Association acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers in the syndication of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility consists of a $300.0 million five -year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five -year term loan facility. The Company drew the entire term loan from the Credit Facility to (i) retire $344.7 million in indebtedness 17 outstanding under the Company's prior credit facility; (ii) fund expenses associated with the Credit Facility; and (iii) fund general corporate purposes. Generally, interest is charged on the principal amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility at the British Bankers Association LIBOR rate plus an applicable rate ranging from 1.25% to 2.25% depending on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The Company can also opt for an interest rate equal to a base rate (as defined in the credit documents) plus an applicable rate, which also is based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable LIBOR borrowing rate (LIBOR plus Company's applicable rate) as of June30, 2017 was approximately 3.23% . The Company's indebtedness at June30, 2017 consisted of $319.4 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the Credit Facility and $53.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.3 million of third-party notes and bank debt at June30, 2017 . During the first six months of 2017, the Company had net borrowings of $17.0 million on the line of credit for domestic working capital needs. At June 30, 2017, the Company classified $3.0 million of its borrowings on the line of credit in "Current maturities of long-term debt" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet based on its intent to repay amounts within the next twelve months. As of June30, 2017 , the Company had $33.9 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the Credit Facility. Of such amount, $15.1 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $18.8 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. The Company's indebtedness at December31, 2016 consisted of $328.1 million outstanding from the term loan under the Credit Facility and $36.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. Additionally, the Company designated $9.6 million of debt held by its joint ventures (representing funds loaned by its joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.3 million of third-party notes and bank debt at December31, 2016 . At June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt was approximately $380.4 million and $366.0 million , respectively. Fair value was estimated using market rates for debt of similar risk and maturity and a discounted cash flow model, which are based on Level 3 inputs as defined in Note 11. In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrors the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated on the same amortizing $262.5 million notional amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. See Note 11. The Credit Facility is subject to certain financial covenants, including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. Subject to the specifically defined terms and methods of calculation as set forth in the Credit Facility's credit agreement, the financial covenant requirements, as of each quarterly reporting period end, are defined as follows: Consolidated financial leverage ratio compares consolidated funded indebtedness to Credit Facility defined income. The initial maximum amount was not to initially exceed 3.75 to 1.00, but decreased, as scheduled, to not more than 3.50 to 1.00 beginning with the quarter ending June 30, 2017. At June30, 2017 , the Company's consolidated financial leverage ratio was 2.90 to 1.00 and, using the Credit Facility defined income, the Company had the capacity to borrow up to $81.1 million of additional debt. Consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio compares Credit Facility defined income to Credit Facility defined fixed charges with a minimum permitted ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00. At June30, 2017 , the Company's fixed charge ratio was 1.83 to 1.00. At June30, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with all of its debt and financial covenants as required under the Credit Facility. 18 7.STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND EQUITY COMPENSATION Share Repurchase Plan Under the terms of its Credit Facility, the Company is authorized to purchase a limited number of shares of its common stock on an annual basis, subject to Board of Director authorization. In October 2016, our Board of Directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to $40.0 million of our common stock to be made during 2017. The Company began repurchasing shares under this program in January 2017. Once repurchased, the Company promptly retires such shares. The Company is also authorized to repurchase up to $10.0 million of the Company's common stock in each calendar year in connection with the Company's equity compensation programs for employees. The participants in the Company's equity plans may surrender shares of common stock in satisfaction of tax obligations arising from the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock unit awards and performance unit awards under such plans and in connection with the exercise of stock option awards. The deemed price paid is the closing price of the Company's common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the date that the restricted stock, restricted stock unit or performance unit vests or the shares of the Company's common stock are surrendered in exchange for stock option exercises. The option holder may elect a "net, net" exercise in connection with the exercise of employee stock options such that the option holder receives a number of shares equal to (1) the built-in gain in the option shares divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise, less (2) a number of shares equal to the taxes due upon the exercise of the option divided by the market price of the Company's common stock on the date of exercise. The shares of Company common stock surrendered to the Company for taxes due on the exercise of the option are deemed repurchased by the Company. During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company acquired 868,222 shares of the Company's common stock for $18.8 million ( $21.72 average price per share) through the open market repurchase programs discussed above and 97,315 shares of the Company's common stock for $2.2 million ( $22.33 average price per share) in connection with the satisfaction of tax obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance units. Once repurchased, the Company immediately retired all such shares. During the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company acquired 1,310,959 shares of the Company's common stock for $24.1 million ( $18.41 average price per share) through the open market repurchase program discussed above and 54,290 shares of the Company's common stock for $1.1 million ( $19.62 average price per share) in connection with the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units and the exercise of stock options. Once repurchased, the Company immediately retired all such shares. Equity-Based Compensation Plans In April 2016, the Company's stockholders approved the 2016 Employee Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Employee Plan"), which replaced the 2013 Employee Equity Incentive Plan. The 2016 Employee Plan provides for equity-based compensation awards, including restricted shares of common stock, performance awards, stock options, stock units and stock appreciation rights. The 2016 Employee Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which determines eligibility, timing, pricing, amount and other terms or conditions of awards. In April 2017, the Company's stockholders approved the First Amendment to the 2016 Employee Equity Incentive Plan, which increased by 1,000,000 the number of shares of the Company's common stock reserved and available for issuance in connection with awards issued under the 2016 Employee Plan. As of June30, 2017 , 1,304,901 shares of common stock were available for issuance under the 2016 Employee Plan. In April 2016, the Company's stockholders also approved the 2016 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan (the "2016 Director Plan"), which replaced the 2011 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan. The 2016 Director Plan provides for equity-based compensation awards, including non-qualified stock options and stock units. The Board of Directors administers the 2016 Director Plan and has the authority to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations related to the 2016 Director Plan. As of June30, 2017 , 121,481 shares of common stock were available for issuance under the 2016 Director Plan. Stock Awards Stock awards, which include shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance stock units, are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock award compensation is recorded based on the award date fair value and charged to expense ratably through the requisite service period. The forfeiture of unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance stock units causes the reversal of all previous expense to be recorded as a reduction of current period expense. 19 A summary of the stock award activity is as follows: Expense associated with stock awards was $2.6 million and $2.4 million for the quarters ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $5.6 million and $4.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Unrecognized pre-tax expense of $17.0 million related to stock awards is expected to be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of 2.07 years for awards outstanding at June30, 2017 . Deferred Stock Unit Awards Deferred stock units are generally awarded to directors of the Company and represent the Company's obligation to transfer one share of the Company's common stock to the grantee at a future date and are generally fully vested on the date of grant. The expense related to the issuance of deferred stock units is recorded as of the date of the award. A summary of deferred stock unit activity is as follows: Expense associated with awards of deferred stock units was $0.9 million and $0.9 million for the quarters ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $1.0 million and $0.9 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Stock Options Stock options on the Company's common stock are awarded from time to time to executive officers and certain key employees of the Company. Stock options granted generally have a term of seven to ten years and an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. There was no stock option activity during the six months ended June 30, 2017. Stock option shares outstanding and exercisable at June 30, 2017 was 170,253 , with a weighted average exercise price of $21.99 per share. Expense associated with stock option grants was zero for both the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 . There was no unrecognized pre-tax expense related to stock option grants at June30, 2017 . 20 Financial data for stock option exercises are summarized as follows (in thousands): The intrinsic value calculations are based on the Company's closing stock price of $21.88 and $19.51 on June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The Company uses a binomial option-pricing model for valuation purposes to reflect the features of stock options granted. Volatility, expected term and dividend yield assumptions are based on the Company's historical experience. The risk-free rate is based on a U.S. treasury note with a maturity similar to the option grant's expected term. There were no stock options awarded during 2017 or 2016 . 8.TAXES ON INCOME The Company's effective tax rate in the quarter and six-month period ended June30, 2017 was 29.5% and 26.3% , respectively. These effective rates were favorably impacted, as compared to U.S. federal statutory rates, by earnings from foreign jurisdictions, which generally have lower statutory tax rates. The effective tax rate for the first six months of 2017 was also favorably impacted by the reversal of previously recorded valuation allowances due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits, primarily in the United States. For the quarter and six-month period ended June30, 2016 , the Company's effective tax rate was 22.8% and a benefit of 83.4% on a pre-tax loss, respectively. These effective rates were favorably impacted by a higher mix of earnings towards foreign jurisdictions, which generally have lower statutory tax rates, and the impact of certain discrete tax items relating to the 2016 Restructuring. The effective tax rate for the first six months of 2016 was also favorably impacted by a $1.9 million benefit, or 42.0% benefit to the effective tax rate, related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. 9.COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Litigation The Company is involved in certain litigation incidental to the conduct of its business and affairs. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not believe that the outcome of any such litigation, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Contingencies In connection with the Brinderson acquisition, certain pre-acquisition matters were identified in 2014 whereby a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. The Company establishes liabilities in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic No. 450-20, Contingencies - Loss Contingencies , and accordingly, recorded an accrual related to various legal, tax, employee benefit and employment matters. At December 31, 2016, the accrual relating to these matters was $6.0 million . During the first quarter of 2017, the Company reassessed its reserve, as certain payroll tax statutory limitation periods lapsed, and lowered its accrual for such matters by $0.7 million . The accrual adjustments resulted in an offset to "Operating expense" in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of June30, 2017 , the remaining accrual relating to these matters was $5.3 million . Purchase Commitments The Company had no material purchase commitments at June30, 2017 . 21 Guarantees The Company has many contracts that require the Company to indemnify the other party against loss from claims, including claims of patent or trademark infringement or other third party claims for injuries, damages or losses. The Company has agreed to indemnify its surety against losses from third-party claims of subcontractors. The Company has not previously experienced material losses under these provisions and, while there can be no assurances, currently does not anticipate any future material adverse impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company regularly reviews its exposure under all its engagements, including performance guarantees by contractual joint ventures and indemnification of its surety. As a result of the most recent review, the Company has determined that the risk of material loss is remote under these arrangements and has not recorded a liability for these risks at June30, 2017 on its consolidated balance sheet. 10.SEGMENT REPORTING The Company has three operating segments, which are also its reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions; Corrosion Protection; and Energy Services. The Company's operating segments correspond to its management organizational structure. Each operating segment has a president who reports to the Company's chief executive officer, who is also the chief operating decision manager ("CODM"). The operating results and financial information reported by each of the segments are evaluated separately, regularly reviewed and used by the CODM to evaluate segment performance, allocate resources and determine management incentive compensation. The following disaggregated financial results have been prepared using a management approach that is consistent with the basis and manner with which management internally disaggregates financial information for the purpose of making internal operating decisions. The Company evaluates performance based on stand-alone operating income (loss), which includes acquisition-related expenses, restructuring charges and an allocation of corporate-related expenses. Financial information by segment was as follows (in thousands): 22 _______________________ (1) Results include: (i) $3.8 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.7 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and other acquisition targets; and (iii) inventory step up expense of $2.4 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations (see Note 1). (2) Results include $0.5 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Environmental Techniques and other acquisition targets. (3) Results include: (i) $13.3 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $1.7 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Underground Solutions and other acquisition targets; and (iii) inventory step up expense of $3.6 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations (see Note 1). (4) Operating income in the second quarter of 2016 includes: (i) $1.0 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $0.7 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and other acquisition targets; and (iii) inventory step up expense of $2.4 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations (see Note 1). Operating income in the six months ended June 30, 2017 includes $0.5 million of costs incurred related to the acquisition of Environmental Techniques and other acquisition targets. Operating income in the six months ended June 30, 2016 includes: (i) $3.1 million of 2016 Restructuring charges (see Note 3); (ii) $1.7 million of costs incurred related to the acquisitions of Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe, LMJ and other acquisition targets; and (iii) inventory step up expense of $3.6 million recognized as part of the accounting for business combinations (see Note 1). (5) Operating loss in the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 includes $1.0 million and $3.7 million of 2016 Restructuring charges, respectively (see Note 3). (6) Operating loss in the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 includes $1.6 million and $6.4 million of 2016 Restructuring charges, respectively (see Note 3). (7) Other expenses for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2016 includes $0.3 million of 2016 Restructuring charges in both periods (see Note 3). The following table summarizes revenues, gross profit and operating income by geographic region (in thousands): __________________________ (1) Revenues are attributed to the country of origin for the Company's legal entities. For a significant majority of its legal entities, the country of origin relates to the country or geographic area that it services. 23 11.DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS As a matter of policy, the Company uses derivatives for risk management purposes, and does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. From time to time, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency cash flow transactions. For cash flow hedges, a gain or loss is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations upon settlement of the hedge. All of the Company's hedges that are designated as hedges for accounting purposes were highly effective; therefore, no notable amounts of hedge ineffectiveness were recorded in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the outstanding hedged balance. During the first six months of 2017 and 2016 , the Company recorded less than $0.1 million as a gain on the consolidated statements of operations in the other income (expense) line item upon settlement of cash flow hedges. At June30, 2017 , the Company's cash flow hedges were in a net deferred loss position of $0.1 million due to unfavorable movements in short-term interest rates relative to the hedged position. The loss was recorded in accrued expenses and other comprehensive income on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and on the foreign currency translation adjustment and derivative transactions line of the Consolidated Statements of Equity. The Company presents derivative instruments in the consolidated financial statements on a gross basis. The gross and net difference of derivative instruments are considered to be immaterial to the financial position presented in the financial statements. The Company engages in regular inter-company trade activities and receives royalty payments from its wholly-owned Canadian entities, paid in Canadian dollars, rather than the Company's functional currency, U.S. dollars. The Company utilizes foreign currency forward exchange contracts to mitigate the currency risk associated with the anticipated future payments from its Canadian entities. In October 2015, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrored the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of the Company's $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires the Company to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount and provides for the Company to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated by amortizing the $262.5 million same notional amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of the Company's term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The following table provides a summary of the fair value amounts of our derivative instruments, all of which are Level 2 inputs as defined below (in thousands): 24 FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements ("FASB ASC 820"), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements for interim and annual reporting periods. The guidance establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1 defined as quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments; Level 2 defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3 defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. In accordance with FASB ASC 820, the Company determined that the instruments summarized below are derived from significant observable inputs, referred to as Level 2 inputs. The following tables represent assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and the basis for that measurement (in thousands): The following table summarizes the Company's derivative positions at June30, 2017 : 25 The Company had no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 inputs during the quarter ended June30, 2017 . Certain financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair value. Changes in assumptions or estimation methods could affect the fair value estimates; however, the Company does not believe any such changes would have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Other financial instruments including cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value, which is based on Level 2 inputs as previously defined. 12.SUBSEQUENT EVENT On July 28, 2017, the Company's board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2017 Restructuring") to: (i) divest the Company's pipe coating and insulation businesses in Louisiana, The Bayou Companies, LLC and Bayou Wasco Insulation, LLC (collectively "Bayou"); (ii) exit all non-pipe related contract applications for the Tyfo Fibrwrap system in North America; (iii) right-size the Company's cathodic protection services operations in Canada; and (iv) reduce corporate and other operating costs. These decisions reflect the Company's (i) desire to reduce further its exposure in the North American upstream oil and gas markets; (ii) assessment of its ability to drive sustainable, profitable growth in the non-pipe FRP contracting market in North America; and (iii) assessment of continuing weak conditions in the Canadian oil and gas markets. To date, the Company has identified certain initial actions to achieve cost savings. With respect to the initially identified actions, the Company expects to incur cash charges of $9 million to $11 million , most of which are expected to be incurred in the second half of 2017 and consist primarily of employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs, early lease termination and other restructuring related costs. These currently identified charges are mainly in the Infrastructure Solutions segment and, to a lesser extent, the Corrosion Protection segment. The Company expects to reduce headcount by approximately 180 employees as a result of these initial actions. The Company will finalize additional actions to be taken as part of the 2017 Restructuring over the coming months, which could result in additional charges and headcount reductions. As part of the repositioning of the Tyfo Fibrwrap business in North America, the Company will evaluate the long-lived assets and goodwill of its Fyfe reporting unit for impairment during the third quarter of 2017. As of June 30, 2017, the Fyfe reporting unit had $55.7 million of long-lived assets and $56.0 million of goodwill. In conjunction with the above action to divest Bayou, the Company will classify Bayou's assets and liabilities, which were $98.8 million and $26.3 million at June 30, 2017, respectively, as held for sale beginning in the third quarter of 2017. 26 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is management's discussion and analysis of certain significant factors that have affected our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the periods included in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . We believe that certain accounting policies could potentially have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements, either because of the significance of the consolidated financial statements to which they relate or because they involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. A summary of such critical accounting policies can be found in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 and in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report. Forward-Looking Information The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. We make forward-looking statements in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that represent our beliefs or expectations about future events or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and on management's beliefs, assumptions, estimates and projections and are not guarantees of future events or results. When used in this report, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "plan," "intend," "may," "will" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Such statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those referred to in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2017, and in our subsequent filed reports, including this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed may not occur. In addition, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, suggested or projected. Except as required by law, we do not assume a duty to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors should, however, review additional disclosures made by us from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Please use caution and do not place reliance on forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements. Executive Summary Aegion combines innovative technologies with market leading expertise to maintain, rehabilitate and strengthen infrastructure around the world. Since 1971, we have played a pioneering role in finding innovative solutions to rehabilitate aging infrastructure, primarily pipelines in the wastewater, water, energy, mining and refining industries. We also maintain the efficient operation of refineries and other industrial facilities. We are committed to Stronger. Safer. Infrastructure . Our products and services are currently utilized in approximately 80 countries across six continents. We believe the depth and breadth of our products and services make us a leading provider for the world's infrastructure rehabilitation and protection needs. Our Segments We have three operating segments, which are also our reportable segments: Infrastructure Solutions, Corrosion Protection and Energy Services. Our operating segments correspond to the Company's management organizational structure. Infrastructure Solutions The majority of our work is performed in the municipal water and wastewater pipeline sector and, while the pace of growth is primarily driven by government funding, we believe the overall market needs result in a long-term stable growth opportunity for our market leading product brands, Insituform CIPP, Tyfo Fibrwrap and Fusible PVC . Corrosion Protection Investment in North America's pipeline infrastructure is required to transport product from onshore and offshore oil and gas fields to its proper end markets. Corrosion Protection has a broad portfolio of technologies and services to protect and monitor pipelines from the effects of corrosion, including cathodic protection, interior pipe linings, interior and exterior pipe coatings as well as an increasing offering of inspection and repair capabilities. We provide solutions to customers to enhance the safety, environmental integrity, reliability and compliance of their pipelines in the oil and gas market. 27 Energy Services We offer a unique value proposition based on our world class safety and labor productivity programs, which allows us to provide cost effective maintenance, turnaround and construction services at our customers' refineries and petrochemical and other industrial facilities. Strategic Initiatives We are committed to being a valued partner to our customers. We are focused on expanding those relationships by improving execution while also developing or acquiring innovative technologies and comprehensive services to enhance our capabilities to solve complex infrastructure problems. We are pursuing three strategic initiatives: Municipal Pipeline Rehabilitation The fundamental driver in the global municipal pipeline rehabilitation market is the growing gap between the need and current spend. While we do not expect the spending gap to close any time soon, the increasing need for pipeline rehabilitation supports a long-term sustainable market for the technologies and services offered by our Infrastructure Solutions segment. We are committed to maintaining our market leadership position in the rehabilitation of wastewater pipelines in North America using our cured-in-place pipe technology, the largest source of Aegion's consolidated revenues. We have a diverse portfolio of trenchless technologies to rehabilitate aging and damaged municipal pipelines. The focus today is growing our presence in the rehabilitation of pressure pipelines in North America through both internal development and acquisitions. In 2016, we acquired Underground Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiary, Underground Solutions Technologies Group, Inc. (collectively, "Underground Solutions"), adding its patented Fusible PVC pipe technology to our pressure pipe portfolio, which includes Insituform CIPP, Tyfo Fibrwrap fiber-reinforce polymer ("FRP") and Tite Liner high-density polyethylene liner. Our international strategy is to use a blend of third-party product sales as well as CIPP and FRP contract installation operations primarily in Northwest Europe. A key to the success of this strategy is a continuing focus on improving productivity to reduce costs and increase efficiencies across the entire value chain from engineering, manufacturing and installation of our technology-based solutions. Midstream Pipeline Integrity Management There are over one million miles of regulated pipelines in North America, which remains the safest and most cost effective mode of oil and gas transmission. Within our Corrosion Protection segment, we design and install cathodic protection systems to help prevent pipeline corrosion, which represents a majority of the revenues and profits for the segment. We also provide inspection services to monitor these systems and detect early signs of corrosion. In 2017, we launched a new asset integrity management program designed to increase the efficiency and accuracy of the pipeline corrosion assessment data we collect and upgrade how we share this valuable information with customers. We seek to improve customer regulatory compliance and provide services in areas such as data validation, advanced analytics and predictive maintenance. Downstream Refining and Industrial Facility Maintenance Through our Energy Services segment, we have long-term relationships with refinery and industrial customers on the United States West Coast. Our objective is to leverage those relationships to expand the services we provide in mechanical maintenance, electrical and instrumentation services, small capital construction and shutdown (or "turnaround") maintenance activity. There are opportunities in other industries on the West Coast such as pipelines and terminals, chemicals, industrial gas and power to leverage our experience in maintenance and construction services. Business Outlook Favorable end markets and the progress made over the last two years to advance our long-term strategy positioned us to grow revenue and operating income across all three platforms during the first half of 2017. However, the financial performance in the first half of 2017 fell short of expectations because of isolated market challenges and performance issues. Management expects corrective actions underway will improve performance in these affected areas during the second half of the year. As a result of the shortfall to plan in the first half of the year, full year earnings per share (after non-recurring charges) will be moderately above the result in 2016. Infrastructure Solutions We have made investments in 2017 to expand the use of Insituform CIPP in several regions previously underserved by Insituform in the North American wastewater pipeline market. Our objective is to maintain growth and our leading share in a large and mature market. Outside North America, we are selectively targeting markets in Northwest Europe for contract installation of Insituform CIPP to complement a strategy to grow third-party product sales across the continent and in several countries in Asia. Limited contract backlog in Denmark and performance issues in Australia for contract installation of Insituform CIPP resulted in negative impacts to gross profit of $1.7 million and $2.7 million in the second quarter and first six months of 2017, respectively. New leadership was recently brought in to improve sales and project management in Denmark. An assessment is underway to review our CIPP operation in Australia and the market it serves. 28 One of the most attractive areas for growth is in the rehabilitation of municipal pressure pipelines, primarily in North America. We have a diverse portfolio of solutions in a highly fragmented and growing North American market. We also have an attractive market in Asia-Pacific for large-diameter pressure pipe strengthening. We completed a research and development effort in 2016 to significantly reduce material and installation costs for Tyfo Fibrwrap technology while maintaining the superior material properties and quality of the technology. We also improved our InsituMain CIPP technology to give customers a more robust solution. Although gross profit was negatively impacted by $3.3 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 due to short-term softness in workable backlog for CIPP activity in certain regions of North America, the enhancements noted above and favorable market conditions support our expectations for revenue and gross profit growth for our portfolio in 2017. We believe there is a growing acceptance and increasing market opportunity for the Tyfo Fibrwrap technology in the rehabilitation and strengthening of buildings, bridges and other civil structures in North America, Asia-Pacific and Europe over the long-term. While we have had success in Asia-Pacific in this market segment, efforts to date to grow in North America proved to be more challenging, which resulted in gross profit declines of $0.9 million and $2.3 million in the second quarter and the first six months of 2017, respectively, compared to the prior year periods. For this reason, we will execute a plan in the second half of 2017 to exit all non-pipe contract applications of the Tyfo Fibrwrap technology in North America in favor of leveraging our position as a technology provider through manufacturing of Tyfo Fibrwrap materials as well as expertise in engineering, material science and technical support. Although the above challenges negatively impacted the first half of 2017, favorable end markets, strategic investments for growth and technology enhancements support expectations for Infrastructure Solutions to grow revenues in 2017 ahead of the three-year target rate of low-to-mid-single digits. A strong backlog position also supports our expectation for improved operating margins in the second half of 2017. Corrosion Protection Historically, over 50 percent of Corrosion Protection's revenues comes from cathodic protection services for midstream oil and gas pipelines in North America, an attractive and growing market that we believe justifies further investment to outpace market growth. To that end, we are commercializing a new asset integrity management system in 2017 for pipeline corrosion inspections. The new service is expected to improve data accuracy and processing efficiency, customize the data transfer format (including geospatial mapping) and provide faster access to the information by customers. Corrosion Protection's pipeline inspection services typically create a multiplier effect for our other capabilities in direct pipeline inspections, engineering, cathodic protection system installation and pipeline corrosion remediation. Our objective is to expand the relationships with our top customers, who are the leading pipeline owners in North America, to accelerate revenue growth. Asset integrity management is an important element of that strategy and we expect to transition a number of those customers to the new system in 2017. Despite these favorable market conditions, gross profit for our U.S. cathodic protection services operation was negatively impacted by $4.3 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 due to a unfavorable mix of lower margin activity and performance issues on several large projects. With oil prices trading in a more stable range since the fall of 2016, we are seeing signs of a modest market recovery in 2017. We were awarded sizable international contracts for our Tite Liner pipeline protection system and robotic internal field pipe weld coatings in the Middle East. The activity in the Middle East pertains to an onshore and offshore gas field development. The project consists of two related contracts valued at approximately $35 million, with over 75% of the value related to offshore pipeline weld coatings at expected gross margins consistent with past offshore projects. We substantially completed the $134 million deepwater pipe coating and insulation project during the second quarter at our pipe coating and insulation business in Louisiana. The execution of the project has exceeded expectations and was a primary driver of Corrosion Protection's and Aegion's revenues and gross profit in the first half of 2017. We expect performance in the second half of 2017 to exceed the results in the second half of 2016 when excluding the contribution from the deepwater project in the fourth quarter of 2016. Despite the challenges in the U.S. cathodic protection services business in the first half of the year, the contribution from the deepwater project, expected improvements in the market for cathodic protection services in the U.S. and increased project activity for pipe linings and field weld coatings supports our expectations for the platform to grow revenues by mid-teens with mid-single digit operating margins in 2017. Energy Services Energy Services has been building momentum since the second half of 2016 after completing the downsizing of its upstream operations in Central California and the Permian Basin as part of the 2016 Restructuring. The outlook for day-to-day downstream refinery maintenance remains strong based on long-term contracts and our position as the lead maintenance provider in 14 out of the 18 refineries on the United States West Coast. We have an effort underway to expand our services over time to those customers in mechanical maintenance, turnaround support, electrical and instrumentation maintenance and small capital construction activities. We have been successful securing new contract awards as part of this strategy. As 29 expected, we have seen increased activity in 2017, for turnaround, or refinery shutdown, maintenance services. A preliminary assessment indicates 2018 should be another good year for turnarounds. Finally, we are making progress improving operating efficiencies through several initiatives designed to maximize margins and cash generation. Strong results in the first half of 2017 and a favorable outlook for the remainder of the year now supports low double-digit revenue growth in 2017, ahead of our three-year financial objectives, and operating margins above the results achieved in the fourth quarter of 2016. Acquisitions/Strategic Initiatives/Divestitures Strategic Actions On July 28, 2017, our board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2017 Restructuring") to: (i) divest our pipe coating and insulation businesses in Louisiana, The Bayou Companies, LLC and Bayou Wasco Insulation, LLC (collectively "Bayou"); (ii) exit all non-pipe related contract applications for the Tyfo Fibrwrap system in North America; (iii) right-size our cathodic protection services operations in Canada; and (iv) reduce corporate and other operating costs. These decisions reflect our (i) desire to reduce further our exposure in the North American upstream oil and gas markets; (ii) assessment of our ability to drive sustainable, profitable growth in the non-pipe FRP contracting market in North America; and (iii) assessment of continuing weak conditions in the Canadian oil and gas markets. We expect the 2017 Restructuring to generate over $15 million in annualized savings, which savings should be fully realized in 2018. To date, we have identified certain initial actions that represent approximately $9 million in annualized savings. With respect to the initially identified actions, we expect to incur cash charges of $9 million to $11 million, most of which are expected to be incurred in the second half of 2017 and consist primarily of employee severance, extension of benefits, employment assistance programs, early lease termination and other restructuring related costs. These currently identified charges are mainly in the Infrastructure Solutions segment and, to a lesser extent, the Corrosion Protection segment. We expect to reduce headcount by approximately 180 employees as a result of these initial actions. We will finalize additional actions to be taken as part of the 2017 Restructuring over the coming months, which could result in additional charges and headcount reductions. As part of the repositioning of the Tyfo Fibrwrap business in North America, we will evaluate the long-lived assets and goodwill of our Fyfe reporting unit for impairment during the third quarter of 2017. As of June 30, 2017, the Fyfe reporting unit had $55.7 million of long-lived assets and $56.0 million of goodwill. We are also assessing our CIPP business in Australia, and, should we determine that restructuring actions are needed, we would incur additional cash and non-cash charges. We expect to conclude our assessment of our Australian business during the third quarter of 2017. In conjunction with the above action to divest Bayou, we will classify Bayou's assets and liabilities, which were $98.8 million and $26.3 million at June 30, 2017, respectively, as held for sale beginning in the third quarter of 2017. Acquisitions Our recent acquisition strategy has focused on the world's aging infrastructure and the investment needed to maintain infrastructure in North America and overseas. During 2017 and 2016, we targeted strategic acquisitions in the infrastructure sector by: i. adding patented Fusible PVC pipe technology to our pressure pipe rehabilitation portfolio through the acquisition of Underground Solutions; ii. expanding our CIPP presence in Europe by acquiring the CIPP contracting operations of Leif M. Jensen A/S ("LMJ"), a Danish company and the Insituform licensee in Denmark since 2011, and acquiring Environmental Techniques Limited and its parent holding company, Killeen Trading Limited (collectively "Environmental Techniques"), a Northern Ireland-based provider of trenchless drainage inspection, cleaning and rehabilitation services throughout the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland; iii. acquiring the remaining worldwide rights that we did not already own to market, manufacture and install the patented Tyfo Fibrwrap FRP technology by acquiring the operations and territories of Fyfe Europe S.A. and related companies ("Fyfe Europe"); and iv. expanding our FRP presence in Asia through the acquisition of Concrete Solutions Limited ("CSL") and Building Chemical Supplies Limited ("BCS"), two New Zealand-based companies that operated as a Fibrwrap certified applicator in New Zealand for a number of years (collectively, "Concrete Solutions" ). See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for additional information and disclosures regarding our acquisitions. 30 2016 Restructuring On January 4, 2016, our board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the "2016 Restructuring") to reduce our exposure to the upstream oil markets and to reduce consolidated expenses. During 2016, we completed the restructuring, which: (i) repositioned Energy Services' upstream operations in California; (ii) reduced Corrosion Protection's upstream exposure by divesting our interest in Bayou Perma-Pipe Canada, Ltd. ("BPPC"), our Canadian pipe coating joint venture; (iii) right-sized Corrosion Protection to compete more effectively; and (iv) reduced corporate and other operating costs. The 2016 Restructuring reduced consolidated annual costs by approximately $17.4 million , of which approximately $1.2 million , $6.6 million and $5.6 million related to recognized savings within Infrastructure Solutions, Corrosion Protection and Energy Services, respectively, and $4.0 million related to reduced corporate costs. Cost savings were achieved primarily through office closures and headcount reductions of 964 employees, or 15.5% of our total workforce as of December 31, 2015. There were no expenses incurred in the first six months of 2017 related to the 2016 Restructuring. Total pre-tax 2016 Restructuring charges recorded during 2016 were $16.1 million ( $10.3 million after tax), most of which were cash charges, consisting primarily of employee severance and benefits, early lease terminations and other costs associated with the restructuring efforts as described above. We do not expect to incur any future charges related to the 2016 Restructuring. 2014 Restructuring On October 6, 2014, our board of directors approved a realignment and restructuring plan (the "2014 Restructuring") which included the decision to exit Insituform's contracting markets in France, Switzerland, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore. We have substantially completed all of the objectives related to the 2014 Restructuring. See Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this Report for a detailed discussion regarding strategic initiatives and restructuring efforts. Results of Operations Quarters Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 Overview Consolidated Results Key financial data for consolidated operations was as follows: _____________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. 31 Revenues Revenues increase d $56.8 million , or 19.1% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The increase in revenues was due to a $33.3 million increase in Corrosion Protection, driven by $42.1 million in revenues from a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation, and a $25.4 million increase in Energy Services primarily due to an increase in turnaround services activity. Revenues in Infrastructure Solutions decrease d $1.9 million primarily due to a decline in project activities in our North American operations, most notably from lower FRP project activity, partially offset by increased CIPP contracting installation services activity in our European and Asia-Pacific operations. Revenues increase d $88.1 million , or 14.9% , in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The increase in revenues was primarily due to a $64.2 million increase in Corrosion Protection, driven by $87.3 million in revenues from a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation, and a $22.6 million increase in Energy Services primarily due to increased turnaround and maintenance services activities. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit increase d $18.6 million , or 30.4% , and gross profit margin improve d 190 basis points in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The increase in gross profit was substantially due to an $18.5 million increase in Corrosion Protection primarily from higher revenues and favorable project performance on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation, partially offset by reduced project performance in our cathodic protection operation. Also contributing to the increase in gross profit was a $4.9 million increase in Energy Services primarily due to increased revenues and improved efficiencies associated with turnaround and construction services activities. Gross profit decrease d $4.8 million in Infrastructure Solutions primarily due to a decline in project performance in our international CIPP operations, mostly in Australia and Denmark, coupled with a decline in FRP activity in our North American operation, partially offset by an increase due to a $2.4 million expense in the second quarter of 2016 related to the recognition of inventory step up expense associated with the acquisition of Underground Solutions. Gross profit margin increased mainly due to the contribution from Corrosion Protection, which experienced higher margins generated primarily from a large deepwater project, as noted above. Also contributing to the improvement in gross profit margin were improved efficiencies and elimination of upstream, lump sum cost overruns in 2016 in Energy Services. The improvement in gross profit margin was partially offset by a decline in project performance from the operations described above in Infrastructure Solutions. Gross profit increase d $31.6 million , or 27.3% , and gross profit margin improve d 220 basis points in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The increase in gross profit was due t o: (i) a $29.3 million increase in Corrosion Protection driven by significantly higher revenues and performance on a large deepwater project, noted above, partially offset by project inefficiencies in our cathodic protection operation; and (ii) a $5.6 million increase in Energy Services primarily from increased revenues and improved efficiencies, as noted above. Gross profit decrease d $3.3 million in Infrastructure Solutions primarily due to a decrease in FRP activity in North America and project performance issues in our international CIPP operations, most notably in Australia and Denmark, partially offset by an increase due to a $3.6 million expense in the first half of 2016 related to the recognition of inventory step up expense associated with the acquisition of Underground Solutions. Gross profit margin improve d primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in gross profit margin in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . Operating Expenses Operating expenses increase d $7.3 million , or 14.4% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . As part of our restructuring efforts, we recognized charges of $0.3 million and $2.0 million in the second quarter s of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses increase d $9.0 million , or 18.5% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The increase in operating expenses was mainly due to: (i) a $5.7 million increase in Corrosion Protection primarily due to added sales and administrative support costs; (ii) a $2.0 million increase in Energy Services primarily due to a $1.8 million offset to operating expenses related to a decrease in a reserve for Brinderson pre-acquisition matters in the second quarter of 2016; and (iii) a $1.4 million increase in Infrastructure Solutions primarily from business acquisitions in 2016, which resulted in a full quarter of operating expenses recognized in the second quarter of 2017, and added sales and business development costs as part of our growth initiatives. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.4% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 17.1% in the second quarter of 2016 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.3% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 16.4% in the second quarter of 2016 . Operating expenses increase d $9.3 million , or 9.2% , in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . As part of our restructuring efforts, we recognized charges of less than $0.1 million and $4.8 million in the first six months of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses increase d $14.0 million , or 14.5% , in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The changes in operating expenses in the first 32 six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating expenses in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.3% in the first six months of 2017 compared to 17.2% in the first six months of 2016 . Excluding restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 16.3% in the first six months of 2017 compared to 16.4% in the first six months of 2016 . Consolidated Net Income (Loss) Consolidated net income was $11.1 million in the second quarter of 2017 , an increase of $7.7 million , or 224.4% , from consolidated net income of $3.4 million in the second quarter of 2016 . Included in consolidated net income were the following pre-tax items: (i) charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $0.3 million in the second quarter of 2017 and $3.8 million in charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and 2016 Restructuring in the second quarter of 2016 ; (ii) acquisition-related expenses of $0.7 million in the second quarter of 2016 ; and (iii) inventory step up costs of $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2016 related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions. Excluding the above items, consolidated net income was $11.3 million in the second quarter of 2017 , an increase of $3.3 million , or 41.1% , from $8.0 million in the second quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to higher revenues, gross profit and operating income in Corrosion Protection related to production on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation and Energy Services primarily related to increased turnaround services activity and improved efficiencies. Partially offsetting the increase in consolidated net income was a decrease from lower operating income in Infrastructure Solutions primarily due to a decline in project performance in international operations, a decline in FRP activity in our North American operation and added sales and business development costs as part of our growth initiatives. Consolidated net income in the second quarter of 2017, as compared to the second quarter of 2016, was also negatively impacted by: (i) an increase in interest expense due to higher prevailing interest rates; (ii) a higher effective income tax rate due to a higher mix of earnings towards the United States; and (iii) increased non-controlling interest income primarily driven from our joint venture in Louisiana, which continued production on its large deepwater pipe coating and insulation project. Consolidated net income was $17.0 million in the first six months of 2017 , an improvement of $17.3 million from a net loss of $0.4 million in the first six months of 2016 . Included in consolidated net income (loss) were the following pre-tax items: (i) charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $0.2 million in the first six months of 2017 and $13.4 million in charges related to the 2014 Restructuring and 2016 Restructuring in the first six months of 2016 ; (ii) inventory step up costs related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions of $3.6 million in the first six months of 2016 ; and (iii) acquisition-related expenses of $0.5 million and $1.7 million in the first six months of 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Excluding the above items, consolidated net income was $17.4 million in the first six months of 2017 , an increase of $5.0 million , or 40.9% , from consolidated net income of $12.3 million in the first six months of 2016 . The changes in consolidated net income in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 were due primarily to the same factors as noted above for the changes in consolidated net income in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . Additionally, consolidated net income in the first six months of 2017 was favorably impacted by the reversal of previously recorded valuation allowances due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits, primarily in the United States; whereas, consolidated net income in the first six months of 2016 was favorably impacted by a $1.9 million benefit recorded in the first quarter of 2016 related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits. Contract Backlog Contract backlog is our expectation of revenues to be generated from received, signed and uncompleted contracts, the cancellation of which is not anticipated at the time of reporting. We assume that these signed contracts are funded. For government or municipal contracts, our customers generally obtain funding through local budgets or pre-approved bond financing. We have not undertaken a process to verify funding status of these contracts and, therefore, cannot reasonably estimate what portion, if any, of our contracts in backlog have not been funded. However, we have little history of signed contracts being canceled due to the lack of funding. Contract backlog excludes any term contract amounts for which there are not specific and determinable work releases or values beyond a renewal date in the forward 12-month period. Projects whereby we have been advised that we are the low bidder, but have not formally been awarded the contract, are not included. Although backlog represents only those contracts and Master Service Agreements ("MSAs") that are considered to be firm, there can be no assurance that cancellation or scope adjustments will not occur with respect to such contracts. 33 The following table sets forth our consolidated backlog by segment (in millions): __________________________ (1) June30, 2017 , March 31, 2017, December 31, 2016 and June30, 2016 included backlog from our large, domestic deepwater pipe coating and insulation contract of $9.6 million , $51.7 million , $96.8 million and $133.7 million , respectively. (2) Represents expected unrecognized revenues to be realized under long-term MSAs and other signed contracts. If the remaining term of these arrangements exceeds 12 months, the unrecognized revenues attributable to such arrangements included in backlog are limited to only the next 12 months of expected revenues. Within our Infrastructure Solutions and Corrosion Protection segments, certain contracts are performed through our variable interest entities, in which we own a controlling portion of the entity. As of June30, 2017 , 0.9% and 17.6% of our Infrastructure Solutions backlog and Corrosion Protection backlog, respectively, related to these variable interest entities. A substantial majority of our contracts in these two segments are fixed price contracts with individual private businesses and municipal and federal government entities across the world. Energy Services generally enters into cost reimbursable contracts that are based on costs incurred at agreed upon contractual rates. Consolidated customer orders, net of cancellations ("New Orders"), increase d $123.7 million , or 42.2% , to $416.6 million in the quarter ended June30, 2017 compared to $292.9 million in the quarter ended June30, 2016 . New Orders increase d $197.6 million , or 34.9% , to $764.5 million in the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to $566.9 million in the six months ended June30, 2016 . Infrastructure Solutions Segment Key financial data for Infrastructure Solutions was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. 34 ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. Revenues Revenues in Infrastructure Solutions decrease d $1.9 million , or 1.3% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a decline in project activities in certain regions of our North American operation, most notably from lower FRP project activity. Partially offsetting the decrease in revenues in our North American operations was an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity in our European and Asia-Pacific operations. The increase in revenues was also due to contributions from business acquisitions in the CIPP market in Europe and the FRP market in Asia-Pacific made during the second and third quarters of 2016. Revenues increased $1.2 million , or 0.4% , in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in CIPP contracting installation services activity in our European and Asia-Pacific operations as well as contributions from business acquisitions, as noted above. Mostly offsetting the increase in revenues was a decrease specifically related to a decline in FRP project activity in our North American operation. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Infrastructure Solutions decrease d $4.8 million , or 12.3% , and gross profit margin decline d 290 basis points in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to lower project performance in our North American and Asia-Pacific operations, specifically in Australia for our Asia-Pacific operation, and declining revenues associated with FRP project activity in our North American operation. Partially offsetting the decrease in gross profit was an increase related to a $2.4 million expense in the second quarter of 2016 related to the recognition of inventory step up required in the accounting for business combinations related to the Underground Solutions acquisition. Gross profit margin decline d mainly due to lower, overall project performance in our international CIPP operations. Gross profit decrease d $3.3 million , or 4.8% , and gross profit margin declined 130 basis points in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The decrease in gross profit was primarily due to lower CIPP project performance in our European and Asia-Pacific operations, specifically Denmark and Australia, and declining revenues associated with FRP project activity in our North American operation. Partially offsetting the decrease in gross profit was an increase related to a $3.6 million expense in the first half of 2016 related to the recognition of inventory step up, as noted above. Gross profit margin declined mainly due to lower CIPP project performance in our European and Asia-Pacific operations. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Infrastructure Solutions increase d $1.2 million , or 4.8% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to incremental operating expense contributions from acquisitions made in the European CIPP market and the Asia-Pacific FRP market during the second and third quarters of 2016, and investments made to hire experienced sales and business development professionals in our North American operation to facilitate growth. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 17.5% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 16.5% in the second quarter of 2016 . Operating expenses increase d $5.4 million , or 11.8% , in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating expenses in second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 as well as the operating expense contribution from the acquisition of Underground Solutions in the first quarter of 2016. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 18.4% for the first six months of 2017 compared to 16.6% in the first six months of 2016 . 35 Operating Income and Operating Margin Operating income in Infrastructure Solutions decrease d $4.7 million , or 35.8% , to $8.4 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to $13.1 million in the second quarter of 2016 . Operating margin decline d 300 basis points to 5.7% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 8.7% in the second quarter of 2016 . Included in operating income are the following items: (i) charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $0.3 million in the second quarter of 2017 and charges related to the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring of $1.0 million in the second quarter of 2016 ; (ii) $0.7 million in acquisition-related expenses in the second quarter of 2016 ; and (iii) inventory step up costs related to purchase accounting adjustments for Underground Solutions of $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2016. Excluding these items, operating income decrease d $8.5 million , or 49.5% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 and operating margin decline d 560 basis points to 5.8% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 11.4% in the second quarter of 2016 . Operating income and operating margin decreased primarily due to lower international CIPP project performance, declining FRP project activity in our North American operation, and incremental operating expenses from acquisitions made in 2016 and added sales and business development costs as part of our growth initiatives. Operating income decrease d $4.9 million , or 25.8% , to $14.0 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to $18.9 million in the first six months of 2016 . Operating margin decline d 170 basis points to 5.1% in the first six months of 2017 compared to 6.8% in the first six months of 2016 . Included in operating income are the following items: (i) charges related to the 2014 Restructuring of $0.2 million in the first six months of 2017 and charges related to the 2016 Restructuring and 2014 Restructuring of $3.0 million in the first six months of 2016 ; (ii) an expense of $3.6 million in the first six months of 2016 related to the recognition of inventory step up for Underground Solutions; and (iii) acquisition related expenses of $0.5 million and $1.7 million in the first six months of 2017 and 2016, respectively. Excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, operating income decrease d $12.5 million , or 45.8% , to $14.7 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to $27.2 million in the first six months of 2016 . Operating margin, excluding restructuring charges, inventory step up and acquisition-related expenses, decline d 460 basis points to 5.3% in the first six months of 2017 compared to 9.9% in the first six months of 2016 . Operating income and operating margin decreased primarily due to a decrease in FRP project activity in our North American operation, lower CIPP project performance in our international operations, and incremental operating expense contribution from acquisitions made in 2016 and added sales and business development costs, as discussed above. Corrosion Protection Segment Key financial data for Corrosion Protection was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. 36 ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. Revenues Revenues in Corrosion Protection increase d $33.3 million , or 35.3% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The increase was due to a $35.6 million increase in revenues in our pipe coating and insulation operation driven by $42.1 million in revenues from a large deepwater project. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues was a small decrease in project activities in our cathodic protection operation, primarily in the United States and Europe, and our coating services operation due to lower international project activity. Revenues increase d $64.2 million , or 34.4% , in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The increase was due to a $67.7 million increase in revenues in our pipe coating and insulation operation driven by $87.3 million in revenues from the large deepwater project. Also contributing to the increase in revenues was an increase in project activities in our cathodic protection operation primarily in the United States, partially offset by a decline in our cathodic protection operation in Europe. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues was a decline in project activities in our industrial linings operation, which benefited from a large project in South America in the first quarter of 2016, and our coating services operation, which completed a large project in the Middle East in the first half of 2016. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Corrosion Protection increase d $18.5 million , or 108.4% , and gross profit margin improve d 980 basis points in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . Gross profit increase d substantially due to production on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation. To a lesser extent, project performance improved in our industrial linings operation and our coating services operation. Partially offsetting the increases in gross profit was a decrease in our cathodic protection operation as a result of project mix and isolated project performance issues in the United States. Gross profit margin improved primarily due to higher margins generated from the large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation and improved margin performance in our coating services and industrial linings operations. Partially offsetting the increase in gross profit margin was a decline resulting from isolated project performance issues in our cathodic protection operation in the United States. Gross profit increase d $29.3 million , or 85.4% , and gross profit margin improve d 690 basis points in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The increase in gross profit was substantially due to production on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation and, to a lesser extent, improved gross profit from our coating services operation, which incurred added costs on certain projects in the Middle East in the first half of 2016. Partially offsetting the increase in gross profit were decreases mainly due to lower project performance and project mix primarily in the United States within our cathodic protection operation and lower gross profit generation in our industrial linings operation, which benefited from a large project in South America in the first quarter of 2016. The changes in gross profit margin in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2017 were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in gross profit margin in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Corrosion Protection increase d $5.6 million , or 30.0% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 primarily due to added sales and administrative support costs. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 19.1% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 19.9% in the second quarter of 2016 . The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenues was due to the growth in revenues, as noted above. Operating expenses increase d $5.9 million , or 15.1% , in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating expenses in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 18.0% in the first six months of 2017 37 compared to 21.0% in the first six months of 2016 . The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenues was due to the growth in revenues, as noted above. Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income in Corrosion Protection increase d $13.7 million , or 555.2% , to $11.2 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2016 . Operating margin improve d to 8.8% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to (2.6)% in the second quarter of 2016 . Included in operating income are restructuring charges of $1.0 million in the second quarter of 2016 for severance and employee-related benefits and other restructuring costs related to our 2016 Restructuring. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income increase d $12.8 million , or 843.3% , to $11.2 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2016 and operating margin improve d to 8.8% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to (1.6)% in the second quarter of 2016 . The increases in operating income and operating margin were primarily the result of increased gross profit and related gross profit margin contribution from the large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation, partially offset by lower contributions from our cathodic protection operation, as discussed above. Operating income increased $26.6 million , or 326.7% , to $18.5 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $8.1 million in the first six months of 2016 . Operating margin improve d to 7.3% in the first six months of 2017 compared to (4.4)% in the first six months of 2016 . Included in operating loss are charges of $3.7 million in the first six months of 2016 for severance and employee-related benefits and other restructuring costs related to our 2016 Restructuring. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income increased $22.9 million , or 515.1% , to $18.5 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $4.4 million in the first six months of 2016 and operating margin improve d to 7.3% in the first six months of 2017 compared to (2.4)% in the first six months of 2016 . The increase in operating income and operating margin were primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating income and operating margin in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . Energy Services Segment Key financial data for Energy Services was as follows: ______________________________ "N/A" represents not applicable. 38 Revenues Revenues in Energy Services increase d $25.4 million , or 47.8% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in turnaround services activity and, to a lesser extent, increased maintenance and construction services activities. These increases were a direct result of increased demand from customers, coupled with expanded market share with various customers on the west coast of the United States. Revenues increase d $22.6 million , or 17.5% , in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in turnaround and maintenance services activities. Partially offsetting the increase in revenues was a decrease resulting from a decline in construction services activity attributable to upstream construction projects that were performed and completed in the first half of 2016. As part of our 2016 Restructuring, we downsized our upstream operation in 2016, which lowered revenues primarily generated from construction services activity in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016. Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Gross profit in Energy Services increase d $4.9 million , or 98.9% , and gross profit margin improve d 320 basis points in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . The increase in gross profit was primarily due to an increase in revenues from turnaround services activity, as noted above, and improved performance associated with turnaround and construction services activities as a result of significant management focus on controlling costs and driving higher labor utilization. The improvement in project performance associated with construction services activity was mainly due to the elimination of cost overruns on certain upstream, lump sum construction projects recognized in the second quarter of 2016. Gross profit margin improved mainly as a result of higher utilization rates, as mentioned earlier, and the completion of restructuring activities during 2016, including the completion of certain under-performing, upstream construction projects. Gross profit margin also improved due to increases in revenues related to turnaround services. Gross profit increase d $5.6 million , or 45.1% , and gross profit margin improve d 230 basis points in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . The increase in gross profit was primarily due to an increase in revenues from turnaround and maintenance services activities. As noted above, cost control efforts resulted in higher utilization and associated improvement in gross profit for our turnaround, maintenance and construction services. Gross profit margin increased primarily due to cost control and higher utilization achievements from focused management efforts and from actions taken in 2016 as part of our 2016 Restructuring. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in Energy Services increase d $0.5 million , or 6.6% , in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2016 primarily related to wind-down and other restructuring-related costs to downsize our upstream operation. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses increase d $2.0 million , or 33.9% . The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to a $1.8 million offset to operating expenses in the second quarter of 2016 related to a decrease in a reserve for Brinderson pre-acquisition matters as well as higher employee medical self-insurance costs and other general and administrative expenses in the second quarter of 2017. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.9% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 13.7% in the second quarter of 2016 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.9% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 10.9% in the second quarter of 2016 , and resulted from management's focus on driving efficiencies in the business. Operating expenses in the first six months of 2017 decrease d $2.0 million , or 12.0 %, compared to the first six months of 2016 . As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we recognized charges of $3.9 million in the first six months of 2016 primarily related to wind-down and other restructuring-related costs to downsize our upstream operation. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses increase d $2.0 million , or 15.4% , primarily due to the same factors impacting the changes in operating expenses in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.7% in the first six months of 2017 compared to 12.9% in the first six months of 2016 . Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 9.7% in the first six months of 2017 compared to 9.8% in the first six months of 2016 . Operating Income (Loss) and Operating Margin Operating income in Energy Services increase d $4.5 million , or 182.7% , to $2.0 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2016 . Operating margin improve d to 2.6% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to (4.6)% in the second quarter of 2016 . 39 Included in operating loss are 2016 Restructuring charges of $1.6 million in the second quarter of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits, early lease termination, wind-down and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income increase d $2.9 million , or 334.3% , to $2.0 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $0.9 million million in the second quarter of 2016 and operating margin improve d to 2.6% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to (1.6)% in the second quarter of 2016 . The increases in operating income and operating margin were primarily due to increased revenues and gross profit contributions associated with turnaround, maintenance and construction services activities, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses driven by the $1.8 million decrease in a reserve related to Brinderson pre-acquisition matters in the second quarter of 2016, as noted above. Operating income increase d $10.1 million , or 149.6% , to $3.3 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $6.7 million in the first six months of 2016 . Operating margin improve d to 2.2% in the first six months of 2017 compared to (5.2)% in the first six months of 2016 . Included in operating loss are 2016 Restructuring charges of $6.4 million in the first six months of 2016 primarily related to severance and employee-related benefits, early lease termination and other restructuring costs. Excluding 2016 Restructuring charges, operating income increase d $3.6 million , or 1,247.8% , to $3.3 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $0.3 million in the first six months of 2016 and operating margin improve d to 2.2% in the first six months of 2017 compared to (0.2)% in the first six months of 2016 . The increases in operating income and operating margin were due primarily to the same factors as noted above for the changes in operating income and operating margin in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . Other Income (Expense) Interest Income and Expense Interest income decrease d $0.1 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year quarter. Interest expense increase d $0.4 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year quarter due to higher LIBOR-based borrowing costs under our Credit Facility, partially offset by lower average debt balances in the current year period. Interest income decrease d $0.1 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to the prior year period. Interest expense increase d $0.8 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher LIBOR-based borrowing costs under our Credit Facility. Other Income (Expense) Other expense was $0.4 million in the quarter ended June30, 2017 and $0.5 million in the quarter ended June30, 2016 and primarily consisted of foreign currency transaction losses in both periods. Other expense was $0.8 million in the six months ended June30, 2017 and $1.5 million in the six months ended June30, 2016 and primarily consisted of foreign currency transaction losses in both periods. Taxes (Benefit) on Income (Loss) Taxes on income increase d $4.2 million during the second quarter of 2017 compared to the second quarter of 2016 . Our effective tax rate was 29.5% in the quarter ended June30, 2017 compared to 22.8% in the quarter ended June30, 2016 . The increase in the effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the prior year period was due to a higher mix of earnings in the United States, primarily from income generated on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation, and the positive impact in the second quarter of 2016 of certain discrete tax items relating to the 2016 Restructuring. Taxes on income increase d $10.9 million during the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . Our effective tax rate was 26.3% in the six months ended June30, 2017 and a benefit of 83.4% in the six months ended June30, 2016 . The effective tax rate in the six months ended June30, 2017 was impacted by the same factors impacting the effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2017, and a benefit related to the reversal of previously recorded valuation allowances due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits, primarily in the United States, recorded in the first quarter of 2017. The effective tax rate in the six months ended June30, 2016 was impacted by the same factors impacting the effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2016, and a $1.9 million benefit, or 42.0% benefit to the effective tax rate, related to the reversal of a previously recorded valuation allowance due to changes in the realization of future tax benefits recorded in the first quarter of 2016. Non-controlling Interests Income attributable to non-controlling interests was $1.1 million in the quarter ended June30, 2017 compared to a loss attributable to non-controlling interests of $0.2 million in the quarter ended June30, 2016 . In the second quarter of 2017, 40 income was primarily driven from our joint venture in Louisiana, which continued its work on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation, and our joint venture in Oman. In the second quarter of 2016, losses from our joint ventures in Mexico, Louisiana and Saudi Arabia were partially offset by profitability from our joint venture in Oman. Income attributable to non-controlling interests was $3.0 million in the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to a loss attributable to non-controlling interests of $0.4 million in the six months ended June30, 2016 . In the first six months of 2017, income was primarily driven from our joint venture in Louisiana, which performed a majority of its work on a large deepwater project in our pipe coating and insulation operation. Our joint ventures in Oman and Mexico also contributed positive earnings in the first six months of 2017. In the six months ended June30, 2016 , losses from our joint ventures in Mexico, Louisiana and Saudi Arabia were partially offset by profitability from our joint venture in Oman. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents Restricted cash held in escrow primarily relates to funds reserved for legal requirements, deposits made in lieu of retention on specific projects performed for municipalities and state agencies, or advance customer payments and compensating balances for bank undertakings in Europe. Changes in restricted cash flows are reported in the consolidated statements of cash flows based on the nature of the restriction. Sources and Uses of Cash We expect the principal operational use of funds for the foreseeable future will be for capital expenditures, working capital, debt service, share repurchases and potential acquisitions. During the first half of 2017 , capital expenditures were primarily related to growth and maintenance capital related to the CIPP operations in Infrastructure Solutions, primarily in the United States and Europe. For 2017, we expect a similar overall level of capital expenditures as was made in 2016, with slightly increased capital expenditures to support anticipated growth in Infrastructure Solutions, partially offset by the 2016 completion of the pipe coating and insulation plant in Corrosion Protection. Under the terms of our Credit Facility, we are authorized to annually purchase up to $40 million of our common stock in open market transactions, subject to Board of Director authorization. The shares are repurchased from time to time in the open market, subject to cash availability, market conditions and other factors, and in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. We are not obligated to acquire any particular amount of common stock and, subject to applicable regulatory requirements, may commence, suspend or discontinue purchases at any time without notice or authorization. In October 2016, our Board of Directors authorized the open market repurchase of up to $40.0 million of our common stock to be made during 2017. Any shares repurchased during 2017 are expected to be funded primarily through cash balances. During the six months ended June30, 2017 , we acquired 868,222 shares of our common stock for $18.8 million ( $21.72 average price per share) through the open market repurchase program discussed above. In addition, we repurchased 97,315 shares of our common stock for $2.2 million ( $22.33 average price per share) in connection with the satisfaction of tax obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance units. Once repurchased, we promptly retired such shares. At June30, 2017 , our cash balances were located worldwide for working capital, potential acquisitions and support needs. Given the breadth of our international operations, approximately $50.8 million, or 48.2%, of our cash was denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar as of June30, 2017 . We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences or be subject to regulatory capital requirements; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. With few exceptions, U.S. income taxes, net of applicable foreign tax credits, have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries. Our intention is to permanently reinvest these earnings. Our primary source of cash is operating activities. We occasionally borrow under our line of credit's available capacity to fund operating activities, including working capital investments. Our operating activities include the collection of accounts receivable as well as the ultimate billing and collection of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings. At June30, 2017 , we believed our net accounts receivable and our costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, as reported on our 41 consolidated balance sheet, were fully collectible and a significant portion of the receivables will be collected within the next twelve months. From time to time, we have net receivables recorded that we believe will be collected but are being disputed by the customer in some manner. Disputes of this nature could meaningfully impact the timing of receivable collection or require us to invoke our contractual or legal rights in a lawsuit or alternative dispute resolution proceeding. If in a future period we determine that any of these receivables are no longer collectible, we will increase our allowance for bad debts through a charge to earnings. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operating activities provided $0.9 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to $9.9 million provided in the first six months of 2016 . The decrease in operating cash flow from the prior year period was primarily due to lower cash flows related to working capital as a result of the timing of customer payments. Working capital used $56.4 million of cash during the first six months of 2017 compared to $20.8 million used in the first six months of 2016 , primarily due to the timing of customer payments on certain large projects, including the domestic deepwater pipe coating and insulation project in Corrosion Protection, which increased days sales outstanding approximately five days at June30, 2017 . We expect the working capital outflows experienced during the first six months to reverse in the third and fourth quarters of 2017 as we collect currently outstanding receivables on larger projects. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities used $19.7 million during the first six months of 2017 compared to $105.6 million used during the first six months of 2016 . During the first six months of 2017 , we used 6.5 million , approximately $8.0 million , to acquire Environmental Techniques. During the first six months of 2016, we used $91.2 million to acquire Underground Solutions, Fyfe Europe and the CIPP business of LMJ. During the first six months of 2016, we received proceeds of $4.6 million, net of cash disposed, from the sale of our interest in our Canadian pipe coating operation. We used $12.8 million in cash for capital expenditures in the first six months of 2017 compared to $19.4 million in the prior year period. In the first six months of 2017 and 2016 , $1.0 million and $1.1 million, respectively, of non-cash capital expenditures were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Capital expenditures in the first six months of 2017 and 2016 were partially offset by $0.4 million and $2.4 million , respectively, in proceeds received from asset disposals. We anticipate approximately $30.0 million to $35.0 million to be spent in 2017 on capital expenditures to support our global operations. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities used $13.3 million during the first six months of 2017 compared to $0.3 million provided in the first six months of 2016 . During the first six months of 2017 and 2016 , we used net cash of $21.0 million and $25.2 million , respectively, to repurchase 965,537 and 1,365,249 shares, respectively, of our common stock through open market purchases and in connection with our equity compensation programs as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report. During the first six months of 2017, we had net borrowings of $17.0 million from our line of credit to fund domestic working capital needs, and we used cash of $8.8 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan. During the first six months of 2016, we had net borrowings of $36.0 million from our line of credit primarily to fund our acquisition activity, and we used cash of $8.8 million to pay down the principal balance of our term loan. Long-Term Debt In October 2015, we entered into an amended and restated $650.0 million senior secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of banks. The Credit Facility consists of a $300.0 million five -year revolving line of credit and a $350.0 million five -year term loan facility, each with an original maturity date in October 2020. Our indebtedness at June30, 2017 consisted of $319.4 million outstanding from the $350.0 million term loan under the Credit Facility and $53.0 million on the line of credit under the Credit Facility. Additionally, we designated $9.6 million of debt held by our joint venture partners (representing funds loaned by our joint venture partners) as third-party debt in the consolidated financial statements and held $0.3 million of third-party notes and bank debt at June30, 2017 . During the first six months of 2017, we had net borrowings of $17.0 million on the line of credit for domestic working capital needs. At June 30, 2017, we classified $3.0 million of our borrowings on the line of credit in "Current maturities of long-term debt" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet based on our intent to repay amounts within the next twelve months. As of June30, 2017 , we had $33.9 million in letters of credit issued and outstanding under the Credit Facility. Of such amount, $15.1 million was collateral for the benefit of certain of our insurance carriers and $18.8 million was for letters of credit or bank guarantees of performance or payment obligations of foreign subsidiaries. 42 In October 2015, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $262.5 million , which is set to expire in October 2020. The notional amount of this swap mirrors the amortization of a $262.5 million portion of our $350.0 million term loan drawn from the Credit Facility. The swap requires us to make a monthly fixed rate payment of 1.46% calculated on the amortizing $262.5 million notional amount, and provides for us to receive a payment based upon a variable monthly LIBOR interest rate calculated on the same amortizing $262.5 million notional amount. The receipt of the monthly LIBOR-based payment offsets a variable monthly LIBOR-based interest cost on a corresponding $262.5 million portion of our term loan from the Credit Facility. This interest rate swap is used to partially hedge the interest rate risk associated with the volatility of monthly LIBOR rate movement and is accounted for as a cash flow hedge. The Credit Facility is subject to certain financial covenants including a consolidated financial leverage ratio and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants at June30, 2017 and expect continued compliance for the foreseeable future. We believe that we have adequate resources and liquidity to fund future cash requirements and debt repayments with cash generated from operations, existing cash balances and additional short- and long-term borrowing capacity for the next 12 months. We expect cash generated from operations to increase in 2017 due to improved earnings, working capital management initiatives and the cost savings generated through our restructuring efforts. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for additional information and disclosures regarding our long-term debt. Disclosure of Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments There were no material changes in contractual obligations and commercial commitments from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements contained in this report for further discussion regarding our commitments and contingencies.