ITEM 1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 1 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 Note 1 Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. They do not include all of the information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for the three and six month periods ended December 27, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending July 3, 2016. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. The Company's quarterly results may experience seasonal fluctuations. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, including the acquisition of Harry & David Holdings, Inc. ("Harry & David") on September 30, 2014, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. Additionally, due to the number of major floral gifting occasions, including Mother's Day, Valentine's Day and Administrative Professionals Week, revenues also rise during the Company's fiscal third and fourth quarters in comparison to its fiscal first quarter. The Easter Holiday, which was on April 5th in fiscal 2015, falls on March 27th in fiscal 2016. As a result of the timing of Easter, during fiscal 2016, all revenue and EBITDA associated with the Easter Holiday will shift into the Company's fiscal third quarter. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service contract. Upon adoption, an entity has the option to apply the provisions of ASU 2015-05 either prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified, or retrospectively. This standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from that debt liability, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. This presentation is consistent with the guidance in Concepts Statement 6, which states that debt issuance costs are similar to a debt discount and in effect reduce the proceeds of borrowing, thereby increasing the effective interest rate. Concepts Statement 6 further states that debt issuance costs are not assets because they provide no future economic benefit. This new guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017 and should be applied retrospectively. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 5 In November 2015 the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, "Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes," which will require entities to present deferred tax assets ("DTAs") and deferred tax liabilities ("DTLs") as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU simplifies the current guidance (ASC 740-10-45-4), which requires entities to separately present DTAs and DTLs as current and noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. TheFASB decided to allow all entities to early adopt the ASU for financial statements that had not been issued. Therefore, we adopted this ASU at December 27, 2015, and have reclassified all prior periods to be consistent with the requirements outlined in the ASU. The impact of the adoption was to reclassify and net $4.9 million of current deferred tax assets within long-term deferred tax liabilities, as of June 28, 2015. Reclassifications Certain balances in the prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform to the presentation in the current fiscal year. S ee "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" above regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU No. 2015-17 upon the classification of deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Note 2 Net Income Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per common share: Note (1): The effect of options to purchase 0.1 million shares for both the three and six months ended December 27, 2015 and 0.3 million and 0.6 million shares for the three and six months ended December 28, 2014, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of net income per share on a diluted basis as their effect is anti-dilutive. 6 Note 3 Stock-Based Compensation The Company has a Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan, which is more fully described in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, that provides for the grant to eligible employees, consultants and directors of stock options, restricted shares, and other stock-based awards. The amounts of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the periods presented are as follows: Stock-based compensation is recorded within the following line items of operating expenses: The following table summarizes stock option activity during the six months ended December 27, 2015: As of December 27, 2015, the total future compensation cost related to non-vested options, not yet recognized in the statement of income, was $1.4 million and the weighted average period over which these awards are expected to be recognized was 3.4 years. 7 The Company grants shares of Common Stock to its employees that are subject to restrictions on transfer and risk of forfeiture until fulfillment of applicable service conditions and, in certain cases, holding periods (Restricted Stock). The following table summarizes the activity of non-vested restricted stock awards during the six months ended December 27, 2015: The fair value of non-vested shares is determined based on the closing stock price on the grant date. As of December 27, 2015, there was $10.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock-based compensation to be recognized over the weighted-average remaining period of 2.7 years. Note 4 Acquisitions and Dispositions Acquisition of Harry & David On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Harry & David, a leading multi-channel specialty retailer and producer of branded premium gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and other gifts marketed under the Harry & David brands. The transaction, for a purchase price of $142.5 million, includes the Harry & David's brands and websites as well as its headquarters, manufacturing and distribution facilities and orchards in Medford, Oregon, a warehouse and distribution facility in Hebron, Ohio and 48 Harry & David retail stores located throughout the country. During the quarter ended June 28, 2015, the Company finalized the allocation of the purchase price to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on its estimates of their fair values on the acquisition date. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. The estimates and assumptions include the projected timing and amount of future cash flows and discount rates reflecting risk inherent in the future cash flows. Of the acquired intangible assets, $5.2 million was assigned to customer lists, which are being amortized over the estimated remaining lives of between 4 to 11 years, $35.5 million was assigned to trademarks, $1.1 million was assigned to leasehold positions and $16.0 million was assigned to goodwill, which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill recognized in conjunction with our acquisition of Harry & David is primarily related to synergistic value created in terms of both operating costs and revenue growth opportunities, enhanced financial and operational scale, and other strategic benefits. It also includes certain other intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition, such as an assembled workforce. 8 The following table summarizes the final allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition: The estimated fair value of the acquired work in process and finished goods inventory was determined utilizing the income approach. The income approach estimates the fair value of the inventory based on the net retail value of the inventory less operating expenses and a reasonable profit allowance. Raw materials inventory was valued at book value, as there have not been any significant price fluctuations or other events that would materially change the cost to replace the raw materials. The estimated fair value of the deferred revenue was determined based on the costs to perform the remaining services and/or satisfy the Company's remaining obligations, plus a reasonable profit for those activities. These remaining costs exclude sales and marketing expenses since the Deferred Revenue has already been "sold," and no additional sales and marketing expenses will be incurred. The reasonable profit to be earned on the deferred revenue was estimated based on the profit mark-up that the Company earns on similar services. The estimated fair value of property, plant and equipment was determined utilizing a combination of the cost, sales comparison, market, and excess earnings method approaches, as follows: Under the cost approach a replacement cost of the asset is first determined based on replacing the real property with assets of equal utility and functionality, developed based on both the indirect and the direct cost methods. The indirect cost method includes multiplying the assets' historical costs by industry specific inflationary trend factors to yield an estimated replacement cost. In applying this method, all direct and indirect costs including tax, freight, installation, engineering and other associated soft costs were considered. The direct cost method includes obtaining a current replacement cost estimate from the Company and equipment dealers, which includes all applicable direct and indirect costs. An appropriate depreciation allowance is then applied to the replacement cost based on the effective age of the assets relative to the expected normal useful lives of the assets, condition of the assets, and the planned future utilization of the assets. The determination of fair value also includes considerations of functional obsolescence and economic obsolescence, where applicable. The sales comparison approach was considered for certain real estate property. Under the sales comparison approach, an estimate of fair value is determined by comparing the property being valued to similar properties that have been sold within a reasonable period from the valuation date, applying appropriate units of comparison. The market approach was considered for certain assets with active secondary markets including agricultural equipment, automobiles, computer equipment, general equipment, mobile equipment, packaging machinery and semi-tractors. Under the market approach market, comparables for the assets are obtained from equipment dealers, resellers, industry databases, and published price guides. The market comparables are then adjusted to the subject assets based on age, condition or type of transaction. All applicable direct and indirect costs are also considered and reflected in the final fair value determination. 9 The fair value of orchards in production was determined based on the excess earnings method under the income approach. This valuation approach assumed that the orchards' production could be sold independently through a wholesale market rather than Harry & David's retail channel. The excess earnings method required calculating future crop revenue as determined by multiplying the future crop volume in tons to be produced by the projected price per ton based on the USDA "Agricultural Prices" report released January 31, 2015 by the National Agricultural Statistics Services. Appropriate expenses were deducted from the sales attributable to the orchards and economic rents were charged for the return on contributory assets. The after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset were discounted back to their net present value at an appropriate rate of return and summed to calculate the value of the orchards. The estimated fair value of the acquired trademarks was determined using the relief from royalty method, which is a risk-adjusted discounted cash flow approach. The relief from royalty method values an intangible asset by estimating the royalties saved through ownership of the asset. The relief from royalty method requires identifying the future revenue that would be generated by the trademark, multiplying it by a royalty rate deemed to be avoided through ownership of the asset and discounting the projected royalty savings amounts back to the acquisition date. The royalty rate used in the valuation was based on a consideration of market rates for similar categories of assets. The discount rate used in the valuation was based on the Company's weighted average cost of capital, the riskiness of the earnings stream association with the trademarks and the overall composition of the acquired assets. The estimated fair value of the acquired customer lists was determined using the excess earnings method under the income approach. This method requires identifying the future revenue that would be generated by existing customers at the time of the acquisition, considering an appropriate attrition rate based on the historical experience of the Company. Appropriate expenses are then deducted from the revenues and economic rents are charged for the return on contributory assets. The after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted back to their net present value at an appropriate intangible asset rate of return and summed to calculate the value of the customer lists. Disposition of Colonial Gifts Limited On December 3, 2013, the Company completed its acquisition of a controlling interest in Colonial Gifts Limited ("iFlorist"). iFlorist, located in the UK, is a direct-to-consumer marketer of floral and gift-related products sold and delivered throughout Europe. The acquisition was achieved in stages and was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the FASB's guidance regarding business combinations. During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company's management committed to a plan to sell its iFlorist business in order to focus its internal resources and capital on integrating Harry & David and achieving expected synergy savings. During October 2015, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of iFlorist to Euroflorist AB ("Euroflorist"), a pan-European floral and gifting company headquartered in Malmo, Sweden. As consideration for the assets sold, the Company received an investment in Euroflorist with a fair value on the date of sale of approximately $1.5 million. The Company will account for this investment using the cost method as it does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence over Euroflorist. As a result of the above, the Company determined that the iFlorist business (disposal group) met the held for sale criteria, as prescribed by FASB ASC 360-10-45-9, as of September 27, 2015. As a result, the Company compared iFlorist's carrying amount ($3.4 million) to its fair value less cost to sell ($1.5 million), and recorded an impairment charge of $1.9 million during the period ended September 27, 2015. The Company recorded this impairment charge within "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. During the quarter ended December 27, 2015, the Company completed the sale of the iFlorist business and recorded an additional loss on sale of $0.2 million. 10 Note 5 Inventory The Company's inventory, stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, includes purchased and manufactured finished goods for sale, packaging supplies, crops, raw material ingredients for manufactured products and associated manufacturing labor and is classified as follows: Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets The following table presents goodwill by segment and the related change in the net carrying amount: (1) The total carrying amount of goodwill for all periods in the table above is reflected net of $71.1 million of accumulated impairment charges, which were recorded in the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment during fiscal 2009. The Company's other intangible assets consist of the following: Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Future estimated amortization expense is as follows: remainder of fiscal 2016 - $0.9 million, fiscal 2017 - $1.5 million, fiscal 2018 - $1.3 million, fiscal 2019 - $0.7 million, fiscal 2020 - $0.6 million and thereafter - $3.7 million. 11 Note 7 Investments The Company has certain investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies. The Company accounts for these investments using the equity method if they provide the Company the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investee's Board of Directors, are considered in determining whether the equity method is appropriate. The Company records equity method investments initially at cost, and adjusts the carrying amount to reflect the Company's share of the earnings or losses of the investee. The Company's equity method investments are comprised of a 32% interest in Flores Online, a Sao Paulo, Brazil based internet floral and gift retailer, that the Company made on May 31, 2012. The book value of this investment was $1.2 million as of December 27, 2015 and $2.9 million as of June 28, 2015 , and is included in Other assets within the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The Company's equity in the net loss of Flores Online for the quarters ended December 27, 2015 and December 28, 2014 was less than $0.1 million. During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company determined that the fair value of its investment in Flores Online ($1.2 million) was below its carrying value ($2.9 million) and that this decline was other-than-temporary. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.7 million, which is included within "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, where the Company does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments are originally recorded at cost, and are included within Other assets in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. The aggregate carrying amount of the Company's cost method investments was $2.3 million as of December 27, 2015 (including a $1.5 million investment in Euroflorist see Note 4 above) and $0.7 million as of June 28, 2015. The Company also holds certain trading securities associated with its Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan ("NQDC Plan"). These investments are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in Other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets (see Note 10). Each reporting period, the Company uses available qualitative and quantitative information to evaluate its investments for impairment. When a decline in fair value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. Note 8 Debt The Company's current and long-term debt consists of the following: (1) In order to finance the Harry & David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in December 2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. 12 The 2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company was in compliance with these covenants as of December 27, 2015. Outstanding amounts under the 2014 Credit Facility bear interest at the Company's option at either: (i) LIBOR, plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined by the Company's leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 basis points. The 2014 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Future principal payments under the term loan are as follows: $7.1 million 2016, $19.6 million 2017, $21.4 million 2018, $26.7 million 2019 and $49.9 million 2020. (2) Bank loan assumed through the Company's acquisition of a majority interest in iFlorist. The Company repaid this loan during the quarter ended December 27, 2015. Note 9 - Property, Plant and Equipment The Company's property, plant and equipment consists of the following: Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements Cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. Although no trading market exists, the Company believes that the carrying amount of its debt approximates fair value due to its variable nature. The Company's investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies are carried at cost and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, when an event or circumstances indicate that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The Company's remaining financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value (see table below). The Company's non-financial assets, such as definite lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist, as required under the accounting standards. 13 Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability, in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under the guidance are described below: Level1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The following table presents by level, within the fair value hierarchy, financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: (1) The Company has established a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for certain members of senior management. Deferred compensation plan assets are invested in mutual funds held in a "rabbi trust" which is restricted for payment to participants of the NQDC Plan. Trading securities held in a rabbi trust are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in Other assets, with the corresponding liability included in Other liabilities, in the consolidated balance sheets. Note 11 Income Taxes At the end of each interim reporting period, the Company estimates its effective income tax rate expected to be applicable for the full year. This estimate is used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis and may change in subsequent interim periods. The Company's effective tax rate from operations for the three months and six months ended December 27, 2015 was 33.2% and 32.8% respectively, compared to 36.9% and 36.8% in the same periods of the prior year. The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the domestic production deduction and various tax credits such as employment credits and research and development credits that were recently renewed by U.S. Congress in December 2015, as well as the impact of the Company's reduced effective foreign tax rate in the UK resulting from the recent sale of iFlorist in October 2015, partially offset by state income taxes. The effective rate for fiscal 2015 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, and other permanent differences, partially offset by tax credits. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state jurisdictions, and various foreign countries. The Company concluded its U.S. federal examination for fiscal 2011, however, fiscal years 2012 thru 2014 remain subject to U.S. federal examination. Due to ongoing state examinations and non-conformity with the U.S. federal statute of limitations for assessment, certain states remain open from fiscal 2011. The Company commenced operations in foreign jurisdictions in 2012. The Company's foreign income tax filings are open for examination by its respective foreign tax authorities, mainly Canada and the United Kingdom. 14 The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties accrued on any unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. At December 27, 2015 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.6 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that none of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months Note 12 Business Segments The Company's management reviews the results of the Company's operations by the following three business segments: 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral, BloomNet Wire Service, and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets Segment performance is measured based on contribution margin, which includes only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead (see (*) below), nor does it include depreciation and amortization, other (income) expense, net and income taxes, or stock-based compensation and certain Harry & David acquisition/integration costs, both of which are included within corporate overhead. Assets and liabilities are reviewed at the consolidated level by management and not accounted for by segment. * Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation, and integration and acquisition costs related to the acquisition of Harry & David of $0 and $0.8 million during the three and six months ended December 27, 2015, respectively and $3.8 million and $4.5 million during the three and six months ended and December 28, 2014, respectively. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of thesefunctions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above segments based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses, as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. The Company has commenced integration of Harry & David into its operating platforms, and as such, their operating costs have been classified in a similar manner. 15 Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business: Edible Arrangements: On November 20, 2014, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut by Edible Arrangements LLC and Edible Arrangements International, LLC, alleging that the Company's use of the terms "Fruit Bouquets," "Edible," "Bouquet," "Edible Fruit Arrangements," Edible Arrangements," and "DoFruit" and its use of a six petal pineapple slice design in connection with marketing and selling edible fruit arrangements constitutes trademark infringement, false designation of origin, dilution, and contributory infringement under the federal Lanham Act, 29 USC 1114 and 1125(a), common law unfair competition, and a violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act, Connecticut General Statutes 42-110b (a). The Complaint alleges Edible Arrangements has been damaged in the amount of $97,411,000. The Complaint requests a declaratory judgment in favor of Edible Arrangements, an injunction against the Company's use of the terms and design, an accounting and payment of the Company's profits from its sale of edible fruit arrangements, a trebling of the Company's profits from such sales or of any damages sustained by Edible Arrangements, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees. On November 24, 2014, the Complaint was amended to add a breach of contract claim for use of these terms and the design, based on a contract that had been entered by one of the Company's remote subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by the Company. On January 29, 2015, the Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to add one of the Company's subsidiaries and to claim its damages were $ 101,436,000. The Company filed an Answer and a Counterclaim on February 27, 2015. The Answer asserts substantial defenses, including fair use by the Company of generic and descriptive terms, as expressly permitted under the Lanham Act, invalidity of Edible Arrangements' trademark registrations on grounds of fraud and trademark misuse, lack of exclusive rights on the part of Edible Arrangements, functionality of the claimed design mark, acquiescence, estoppel, and Edible Arrangements' use of the claimed trademarks in violation of the antitrust laws. The Counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of lack of infringement and invalidity of claimed marks, cancellation of Edible Arrangements' registrations due to its fraud and misuse, genericism, and lack of secondary meaning as to any terms deemed descriptive, and damages in an amount to be determined for violation of the antitrust provisions of the federal Sherman Act and the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. By Order dated May 4, 2015, the court ordered a phasing of the case and bifurcated the antitrust Counterclaim from the infringement claims. Discovery has begun and is continuing. Edible Arrangements filed a motion to dismiss the Company's Sherman Act and Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act claims. The Company filed its brief in opposition to the motion to dismiss on July 10, 2015. On November 12, 2015, following oral argument before the Court, the Court denied Edible Arrangements' motion seeking to dismiss the Company's federal Sherman Act and Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act claims. The Company believes its Counterclaims to the Edible Arrangements' claims are meritorious and that there are substantial defenses to all of the Edible Arrangements' claims and expects to defend the claims vigorously. 16 At this time, we are unable to estimate a possible loss or range of possible loss for the aforementioned action for various reasons, including, among others: (i) the damages sought are indeterminate, (ii) the proceeding is in the early stages, and (iii) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of the pending motion. As a result of the foregoing, we have determined that the amount of possible loss or range of loss is not reasonably estimable. However, legal matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which may be beyond our control. Note 14. Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution Facility On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple Heights, Ohio warehouse and distribution facility. While the fire did not cause any injuries, the building was severely damaged, rendering it inoperable for the key calendar 2014 holiday season, and all Fannie May and Harry London confections in the facility were destroyed. As a result, the Company had limited supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products available in its retail stores as well as for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during the 2014 holiday season. While the Company implemented contingency plans to increase production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products at its production facility in Canton, Ohio and to shift warehousing and distribution operations to alternate Company facilities, product availability was severely limited, impacting revenue and earnings during the fiscal second and third quarters of fiscal 2015. The following table reflects the costs related to the fire and the insurance recovery and associated gain as of December 27, 2015: During the three months ended September 27, 2015, the Company and its insurance carrier reached final agreement, and during the three months ended December 27, 2015, the Company received all remaining proceeds from its Fannie May fire claim. The agreement, in the amount of $55.0 million, provided for: (i) recovery of raw materials and work-in-process at replacement cost, and finished goods at selling price, less costs to complete the sale and normal discounts and other charges, as well as (ii) other incremental fire-related costs. The cost of inventory lost in the fire was approximately $29.6 million, while other fire-related costs amounted to approximately $5.8 million, including incremental contracted lease and cold storage fees which will be incurred until the Company moves back into its leased facility once the landlord completes repairs, currently anticipated before the end of the Company's third quarter of fiscal 2016. The resulting gain of $19.6 million is included in "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the period ended December 27, 2015. 17 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Forward Looking Statements This "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (MD&A) is intended to provide an understanding of our financial condition, change in financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and results of operations. The following MD&A discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this Form10-Q and in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed or referred to in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to any differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption "Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results" and under Part I, Item 1A, of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Risk Factors." Overview 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a leading provider of gourmet food and floral gifts for all occasions. For nearly 40 years, 1-800-FLOWERS(1-800-356-9377orwww.1800flowers.com)has been helping deliver smiles for our customers with gifts for every occasion, including fresh flowers and the finest selection of plants, gift baskets, gourmet foods, confections, candles, balloons and plush stuffed animals. As always, our 100% Smile Guarantee backs every gift.Most notably, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was recognized as one of the Internet Retailers Top 300 B2B e-commerce companies. In addition, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was recently named in Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 as one of the world's leading mobile commerce sites. The Company was also included in Internet Retailer's 2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce companies. In 2015, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was named a winner of the "Best Companies to Work for in New York State" award by The New York Society for Human Resource Management (NYS-SHRM). 1-800-FLOWERS.COMwas awarded the 2014 Silver Stevie Award, recognizing the organization's outstanding Customer Service and commitment to our 100% Smile Guarantee.1-800-FLOWERS.COMreceived a Gold Award for Best User Experience on a Mobile Optimized Site for the2013Horizon Interactive Awards. The Company's BloomNet international floral wire service (www.mybloomnet.net)provides a broad range of quality products and value-added services designed to help professional florists grow their businesses profitably. The1-800-FLOWERS.COM"Gift Shop" also includes gourmet gifts such aspremium, gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items from Harry & David (1-877-322-1200or www.harryanddavid.com),popcorn and specialty treats from The Popcorn Factory(1-800-541-2676or www.thepopcornfactory.com);cookies and baked gifts from Cheryl's (1-800-443-8124orwww.cheryls.com);premium chocolates and confections from Fannie May (www.fanniemay.comandwww.harrylondon.com);gift baskets and towers from 1-800- Baskets.com (www.1800baskets.com);premium English muffins and other breakfast treats from Wolferman's (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com); carved fresh fruit arrangements from FruitBouquets.com(www.fruitbouquets.com);and top quality steaks and chops from Stock Yards(www.stockyards.com). On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Harry & David Holdings, Inc. ("Harry & David"), a leading multi-channel specialty retailer and producer of branded premium gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and other gifts marketed under the Harry & David, Wolferman's and Cushman's brands. The transaction, at a purchase price of $142.5 million, included the Harry & David's brands and websites as well as its headquarters, manufacturing and distribution facilities and orchards in Medford, Oregon, a warehouse and distribution facility in Hebron, Ohio and 46 Harry & David retail stores located throughout the country. Harry & David's revenues were approximately $386 million in fiscal 2014, with Adjusted EBITDA of approximately $28 million. The historical results of Harry & David, as well as applicable pro forma results are included in the Company's Form 8-K/A filed on December 16, 2014. In order to finance the acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to the applicable sublimit) and general corporate purposes. 18 Shares in 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, ticker symbol: FLWS. Category Information The following table presents the net revenues, gross profit and category contribution margin from each of the Company's business segments, as well as consolidated EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. (Due to certain one-time items, the following Non-GAAP reconciliation tables have been included within MD&A. In order to present comparable information, the financial information for the three and six months ended December 27, 2015 and December 28, 2014 is also being presented on a pro-forma basis to give effect to the Harry & David acquisition as if it had been completed on June 30, 2014. This pro-forma information has been prepared by management for informational purposes only, and is not necessarily indicative of or intended to represent the results that would have been achieved had the acquisition been consummated as of this date. The pre-acquisition operating results of Harry & David, for the three months ended September 28, 2014, included within this pro-forma information, do not reflect any operating efficiencies and/or cost savings that the Company may achieve with respect to the combined companies, but have been adjusted to give effect to non-recurring items that are directly attributable to the acquisition.) 19 20 Reconciliation of net income to adjusted net income attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc.: 21 Reconciliation of net income attributable to 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA, excluding stock-based compensation (**): (*) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the abovecategories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. (**) Performance is measured based on segment contribution margin or segment Adjusted EBITDA, reflecting only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead, described above, depreciation and amortization, other income (net), nor does it include one-time charges or gains. Management utilizes EBITDA, and adjusted financial information, as a performance measurement tool because it considers such information a meaningful supplemental measure of its performance and believes it is frequently used by the investment community in the evaluation of companies with comparable market capitalization. The Company also uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information as one of the factors used to determine the total amount of bonuses available to be awarded to executive officers and other employees. The Company's credit agreement uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information to measure compliance with covenants such as interest coverage and debt incurrence. EBITDA and adjusted financial information is also used by the Company to evaluate and price potential acquisition candidates. EBITDA and adjusted financial information have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: (a) EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, the Company's working capital needs; (b) EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on the Company's debts; and (c) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such capital expenditures. Because of these limitations, EBITDA should only be used on a supplemental basis combined with GAAP results when evaluating the Company's performance. 22 Results of Operations Net Revenues Net revenues consist primarily of the selling price of the merchandise, service or outbound shipping charges, less discounts, returns and credits. Net revenues increased 2.6% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year as a result of growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, primarily attributable to the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, as well as growth from Harry & David, Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets wholesale gift basket businesses, partially offset by declines in the BloomNet segment, resulting from timing of wholesale orders which shifted into the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2016 compared to the prior year, and the Consumer Floral segment due to the impact of the sale of the iFlorist and Fine Stationery businesses during October 2015 and June 2015, respectively. On a comparable basis, adjusting for the estimated lost revenues associated with the warehouse fire in the prior year of $13.8 million, as well as for the impact of purchase accounting adjustments which reduced the acquired value of Harry & David's deferred revenue by $1.6 million, and the impact of the dispositions of iFlorist during October 2015, and Fine Stationery during June 2015 (which had combined net revenues of $5.9 million in the prior year period), pro-forma net revenues during the three months ending December 27, 2015 of $548.3 million, were favorable in comparison to prior year revenues of $543.7 million, by 0.8%. Net Revenues increased 6.6% during the six months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year as a result of growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, as a result of the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, as well as order growth within Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets wholesale gift basket businesses, and increases within the BloomNet segment, partially offset by a decline within the Consumer Floral segment due to the impact of the sale of the iFlorist and Fine Stationery businesses during October 2015 and June 2015, respectively. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David and dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery occurred on June 30, 2014, and adjusting for the estimated lost revenues associated with the warehouse fire in the prior year, pro-forma net revenues during the six months ending December 27, 2015 of $703.4 million were favorable in comparison to prior year net revenues of $697.7 million, by 0.8%. E-commerce revenues (combined online and telephonic) increased by 0.8% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to growth within the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment due to the impact of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire on prior year revenues, combined with e-commerce growth within Harry & David and Cheryls', partially offset by a decline in the Consumer Floral segment as growth by the 1-800-Flowers.com brand was offset by the loss of revenue from the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery in October 2015 and June 2015, respectively. During the three months ended December 27, 2015, the Company fulfilled approximately 5,205,000 orders through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales), compared to approximately 5,302,000 during the same period of the prior year, while the average order value increased to $79.20during the three months ended December 27, 2015from $77.16 during the same period ofthe prior year. E-commerce revenues increased 4.8%, during the six months ended December 27, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, as a result of the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, as well as order growth within Cheryl's , partially offset by a decline in the Consumer Floral segment as growth by the 1-800-Flowers.com brand was offset by the loss of revenue from the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery in October 2015 and June 2015, respectively. The Company fulfilled approximately 6,672,000 orders during the six months ended December 27, 2015, compared to approximately 6,616,000 during the same period of the prior year, through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales), while the average order value increased to $77.48 during the six months ended December 27, 2015 from $74.53 during the same periodof the prior year. 23 Other revenues are comprised of the Company's BloomNet Wire Service segment, as well as the wholesale and retail channels of its 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segments. Other revenues increased by 8.7% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to increased revenues within the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment primarily due to an increase in wholesale 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac gift basket orders, and the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire. Other revenues increased by 11.7% during the six months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, resulting from the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014 , increased sales for 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac and the impact of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire on prior year revenues. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment includes the operations of the 1-800-Flowers.com brand, iFlorist, through the date of its disposition in October 2015, deriving revenue from the sale of consumer floral products through their e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales) and royalties from its franchise operations, and Fine Stationery, an e-commerce retailer of stationery products, through the date of its disposition in June 2015. Net revenues decreased 4.8% and 3.6%, respectively, during the three and six months ended December 27, 2015, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, due to the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery, partially offset by growth by the 1-800-Flowers.com brand. On a comparable basis, adjusting for the impact of the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery, pro-forma net revenues during the three and six months ending December 27, 2015 increased 1.1% and 0.5% respectively. The BloomNet Wire Service segment includes revenues from membership fees as well as other product and service offerings to florists. Net revenues decreased 2.2% during the three months ended December 27, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year primarily as a result of a timing shift of wholesale product orders which moved to the first quarter of fiscal 2016 compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2015. Net revenues for the for the six months ended December 27, 2015, increased 2.7% compared to the same period of the prior year, due to a combination of higher wholesale volume, and BloomNet initiatives including the implementation of a new florist transaction program in the 3rd quarter of fiscal 2015 . The Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment includes the operations of Harry & David, Wolferman's, Stockyards, Cheryl's, Fannie May, Harry London, The Popcorn Factory and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac.Revenue is derived from the sale of gourmet fruits, cookies, baked gifts, premium chocolates and confections, gourmet popcorn, gift baskets, and prime steaks and chops through the Company's e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales) and company-owned and operated retail stores under the Harry & David, Cheryl's and Fannie May brand names, as well as wholesale operations. Net revenues increased 4.7% during the three months ended December 27, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, due to the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, as well as e-commerce growth from Harry & David, Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac wholesale gift basket business. On a comparable basis, adjusting for the estimated lost revenues associated with the warehouse fire in the prior year of $13.6 million, as well as for the impact of purchase accounting adjustments which reduced the acquired value of Harry & David's deferred revenue by $1.6 million, pro-forma net revenues during the three months ending December 27, 2015 of $434.3 million, were favorable in comparison to prior year revenues of $429.9 million, by 1.0%. Net revenues for the six months ended December 27, 2015 increased 10.9% compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, as well as order growth within Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac wholesale gift basket business. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David occurred on June 30, 2014, and adjusting for the estimated lost revenues associated with the warehouse fire in the prior year, net revenues during the six months ending December 27, 2015 of $495.9 million were favorable in comparison to prior year pro-forma net revenues of $491.6 million, by 0.9%. 24 Gross Profit Gross profit consists of net revenues less cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid directly to florists), the cost of floral and non-floral merchandise sold from inventory or through third parties, and associated costs including inbound and outbound shipping charges. Additionally, cost of revenues include labor and facility costs related to direct-to-consumer and wholesale production operations. Gross profit increased 5.1% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the aforementioned revenue growth, primarily related to the recovery from the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, as well as from Harry & David, Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac wholesale business, partially offset by the impact of the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery in October 2015 and June 2015, respectively. Gross margin percentage increased 110 basis points to 46.1% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, in comparison to the same period of the prior year due to the mix of sales associated with the recovery from the warehouse fire and the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery businesses which carried lower gross margins. On a comparable basis, adjusting for the estimated lost gross profit associated with the warehouse fire in the prior year of $5.9 million, as well as for the impact of Harry & David purchase accounting adjustments which reduced prior year gross profit by $6.4 million, and the impact of the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery (which had combined gross profit of $2.2 million in the prior year), pro-forma gross profit during the three months ending December 27, 2015 of $252.6 million was favorable in comparison to prior year gross profit of $250.5 million, by 0.8%, and gross margin percentage was consistent with prior year at 46.1%. Gross profit increased 9.0% during the six months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily as a result of the incremental revenue and associated gross margins generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the recovery from the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, as well as Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac wholesale business, partially offset by the impact of the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery in October 2015 and June 2015, respectively. Gross margin percentage increased 100 basis points to 45.4% during the six months ended December 27, 2015, in comparison to the same period of the prior year due to the mix of sales associated with the recovery from the warehouse fire, higher margins earned by Harry & David, and the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery businesses which carried lower gross margins. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David and dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery occurred on June 30, 2014, and adjusting for the estimated lost gross profit associated with the warehouse fire in the prior year, pro-forma gross profit during the six months ending December 27, 2015 of $319.7 millionwas favorable in comparison to prior year gross profit of $315.7 million, by 1.3%, and gross margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 45.5%. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment gross profit decreased by 0.9% and 0.5%, respectively, during the three and six months ended December 27, 2015, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, due to the aforementioned decrease in revenues as a result of the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery in October 2015 and June 2015, respectively. At the same time, gross margin percentage increased 160 basis points to 40.3% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, and 120 basis points to 39.9% during the six months ended December 27, 2015 in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, due to lower promotions, sourcing and shipping savings, as well as the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery which carried lower overall gross margins. On a comparable basis, adjusting for the impact of the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery, pro-forma gross profit during the three months ending December 27, 2015 of $38.2 million was favorable in comparison to prior year gross profit of $36.4 million, by 4.8%, and gross margin percentage increased 140 basis points to 40.3% in the current period, while pro-forma gross profit during the six months ending December 27, 2015 of $66.7 million was favorable in comparison to prior year gross profit of $64.2 million by 3.9%, and gross margin percentage increased 130 basis points to 40.0%. 25 The BloomNet Wire Service segment gross profit increased by 1.2% and 3.7%, respectively, and gross margin percentage increased 180 basis points and 50 basis points, to 56.9% and 55.7%, respectively, during the three and six months ended December 27, 2015, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, primarily due to revenue mix, including an increase in higher margin membership fees. The Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment gross profit increased 6.5% and 70 basis points to 46.7% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to the recovery from the prior year Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire and purchase accounting adjustments relating to the H&D acquisition. On a comparable basis, adjusting for the estimated lost gross profit associated with the Thanksgiving 2014 Fannie May warehouse fire of $5.9 million, and the impact of purchase accounting adjustments of $6.4 million, gross profit ($203.0 million) was favorable in comparison to pro-forma prior year gross profit ($202.8 million) by 0.1%, while gross margin percentage decreased 50 basis points to 46.7%. During the six months ended December 27, 2015, Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment gross profit increased 12.7% and 70 basis points to 46.3%, compared to the same period of the prior year as a result of the incremental revenue and associated gross margins generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the recovery from the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, as well as Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac wholesale business. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David occurred on June 30, 2014, and adjusting for the estimated lost gross profit associated with the warehouse fire in the prior year, gross profit of $229.6 million during the six months ending December 27, 2015was favorable in comparison to prior year pro-forma gross profit of $228.7 million by 0.4%, while gross margin percentage decreased 20 basis points to 46.3%. Marketing and Sales Expense Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search costs, retail store and fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues) and customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the Company's departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising activities. Marketing and sales expense decreased 2.0% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily due to the improved spend ratio across all segments as a result of efficiencies gained in the marketing campaigns as well as the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery in October 2015 and June 2015, respectively, both of which carried a higher marketing spend ratio. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David occurred on June 30, 2014 and adjusting for the estimated lost revenues from the Fannie May warehouse fire, marketing and sales expense as a percentage of net revenues, would have been 21.8% during the three months ending December 27, 2015 compared to 22.3% during the three months ending December 28, 2014. Marketing and sales expense increased 9.2% during the six months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily as a result of the incremental marketing expenses of Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014. Similarly, as a percentage of net revenues, marketing and selling expenses increased from 23.8% during the six months ended September 28, 2014 to 24.4% during the six months ended December 27, 2015 as a result of the seasonality of the Harry & David business which is heavily weighted towards the Company's fiscal second quarter. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David occurred on June 30, 2014 and adjusting for the estimated lost revenues from the Fannie May warehouse fire, marketing and sales expense as a percentage of net revenues, would have been 24.4% during the six months ending December 27, 2015 compared to 24.6% during the six months ending December 28, 2014. 26 Technology and Development Expense Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating expenses of the Company's information technology group, costs associated with its websites, including hosting, design, content development and maintenance and support costs related to the Company's order entry, customer service, fulfillment and database systems. Technology and development expenses increased 5.5% during the three months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of increased license and maintenance costs to support the Company's IT infrastructure. Technology and development expenses increased 28.3% during the six months ended December 27, 2015, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily due to the technology and development costs of Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, as well as increased license and maintenance costs to support the Company's IT infrastructure. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David occurred on June 30, 2014 and adjusting for the estimated lost revenues from the Fannie May warehouse fire, technology and development expense as a percentage of net revenues, would have been 2.7% during the six months ending December 27, 2015 compared to 2.6% during the six months ending December 28, 2014. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists of payroll and other expenses in support of the Company's executive, finance and accounting, legal, human resources and other administrative functions, as well as professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expense decreased 21.5% during the three months ended December 27, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of transaction expenses related to the Harry & David acquisition of $3.8 million incurred during the three months ended December 28, 2014, as well as integration, synergy and performance bonus cost reductions. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David occurred on June 30, 2014 and adjusting for the estimated lost revenues from the Fannie May warehouse fire, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenues, would have been 3.7% during the three months ending December 27, 2015 compared to 3.9% during the three months ending December 28, 2014. General and administrative expense increased 2.0% during the six months ended December 27, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, as result of the incremental general and administrative expense of Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.7% in the six months ended December 27, 2015 from 5.9% during the same period of the prior year, due to a decrease in acquisition and integration expenses related to the Harry & David acquisition ($0.8 million in the six months ended December 27, 2015, and $4.5 million incurred in the six months ended December 28, 2014), as well as integration, synergy and performance bonus cost reductions. On a comparable basis, assuming the acquisition of Harry & David occurred on June 30, 2014 and adjusting for the estimated lost revenues from the Fannie May warehouse fire, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net revenues, would have been 5.7% during the six months ending December 27, 2015 compared to 6.1% during the six months ending December 28, 2014. 27 Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense increased by 0.9% the three months ended December 27, 2015, in comparison to the same period of the prior year due to the Company's technology improvements . Depreciation and amortization expense increased 21.4% duringthe six months ended December 27, 2015, in comparison to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the incremental depreciation and amortization expenses of Harry & David, acquired on September 30, 2014, including the impact of the additional intangibles amortization,as well as a result of the Company's technology improvements. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs attributable to the Company's credit facility, net of income earned on the Company's available cash balances. Interest expense, net decreased during the three months ended December 27, 2015 in comparison to the same period of the prior year, as a result of scheduled repayments of the Term Loan used to finance the Harry & David acquisition. Interest expense, net increased during the six months ended December 27, 2015 in comparison to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the additional interest expense and deferred financing costs associated with the Term Loan used to finance the Harry & David acquisition, entered into on September 30, 2014 and the additional interest expense on the Company's revolver to fund the working capital requirements of Harry & David during the first quarter of the current fiscal year. Other (income) expense, net Other (income) expense, net for the three months ended December 27, 2015 consists primarily of a $0.2 million loss on the sale of iFlorist (see Note 4 above). Other (income) expense, net for the six months ended December 27, 2015 consists primarily of a $19.6 million gain on insurance recoveries related to the Fannie May warehouse fire, offset by a $2.1 million impairment of iFlorist assets held for sale and loss on sale, a $1.7 million impairment of the Flores Online investment, and a decline in the value of Non-qualified deferred compensation investments. 28 Income Taxes The Company recorded income tax expense of $30.5 million and $27.3 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended December 27, 2015, compared to income tax expense of $27.3 million and $23.9 million, respectively for the same periods of the prior year. The Company's effective tax rate from operations for the three months and six months ended December 27, 2015 was 33.2% and 32.8% respectively, compared to 36.9% and 36.8% in the same periods of the prior year. The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the domestic production deduction and various tax credits such as employment credits and research and development credits that were recently renewed by U.S. Congress in December 2015, as well as the impact of the Company's reduced effective foreign tax rate in the UK resulting from the recent sale of iFlorist in October 2015, partially offset by state income taxes. The effective rate for fiscal 2015 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, and other permanent differences, partially offset by tax credits. At December 27, 2015 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.6 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that none of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows At December 27, 2015, the Company had working capital of $76.4 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $108.4 million, compared to working capital of $31.5 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $27.9 million, at June 28, 2015. Note that the June 28, 2015 working capital balance has been restated due to the adoption of ASU No. 2015-17, which reclassified $4.9 million of current deferred tax assets within long-term deferred tax liabilities, resulting in a corresponding reduction in working capital. Net cash provided by operating activities of $111.6 million for the six months ended December 27, 2015, was primarily attributable to the Company's net income during the period, adjusted by non-cash charges for depreciation/amortization, stock based compensation and the impairments/sale of iFlorist and a foreign equity investment, as well as seasonal changes in working capital, including holiday related increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and collection of the Fannie May fire insurance settlement, partially offset by increases in receivables related to holiday season sales. Net cash used in investing activities of $13.1 million for the six months ended December 27, 2015, was primarily attributable to capital expenditures related to the Company's technology infrastructure, as well as improvements and equipment purchases within the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment. Net cash used in financing activities of $18.1 million for the six months ended December 27, 2015 was primarily for term debt repayments of $7.1 million and the acquisition of $11.2 million of treasury stock. All borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility during the six months ended December 27, 2015 were repaid by the end of the period. Credit Facility In order to finance the acquisition of Harry & David, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in December 2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. The 2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Outstanding amounts under the 2014 Credit Facility will bear interest at the Company's option at either: (i) LIBOR, plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined by the Company's leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 basis points. The 2014 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors. 29 Despite the current challenging economic environment, the Company believes that cash flows from operations along with available borrowings from its 2014 Credit Facility will be a sufficient source of liquidity. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, including the acquisition of Harry & David, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. As a result, the Company generated significant cash from operations during its second quarter, which it will then utilize for operating needs during its fiscal third and fourth quarters, after which time the Company expects to borrow against its Revolver to fund pre-holiday manufacturing and inventory purchases during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Borrowings under the Revolver will typically peak in November, at which time cash generated from operations during the Christmas holiday shopping season are expected to again enable the Company to repay working capital borrowings prior to the end of its second quarter of fiscal 2017. Stock Repurchase Program The Company has a stock repurchase plan through which purchases can be made from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions, subject to general market conditions. The repurchase program is financed utilizing available cash. In June 2015, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an increase of $25 million to its stock repurchase plan. As of December 27, 2015, $16.0 million remains authorized under the plan. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business related to the Company's contractual obligations as discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28, 2015. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As disclosed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, the discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventory, goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets and income taxes. There have been no significant changes to the assumptions and estimates related to the Company's critical accounting policies, since June 28, 2015. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service contract. Upon adoption, an entity has the option to apply the provisions of ASU 2015-05 either prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified, or retrospectively. This standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from that debt liability, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. This presentation is consistent with the guidance in Concepts Statement 6, which states that debt issuance costs are similar to a debt discount and in effect reduce the proceeds of borrowing, thereby increasing the effective interest rate. Concepts Statement 6 further states that debt issuance costs are not assets because they provide no future economic benefit. This new guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017 and should be applied retrospectively. 30 In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2015 the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, "Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes," which will require entities to present deferred tax assets ("DTAs") and deferred tax liabilities ("DTLs") as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU simplifies the current guidance (ASC 740-10-45-4), which requires entities to separately present DTAs and DTLs as current and noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. TheFASB decided to allow all entities to early adopt the ASU for financial statements that had not been issued. Therefore, we adopted this ASU at December 27, 2015, and have reclassified all prior periods to be consistent with the requirements outlined in the ASU. The impact of the adoption was to reclassify and net $4.9 million of current deferred tax assets within long-term deferred tax liabilities, as of June 28, 2015. Forward Looking Information and Factors that May Affect Future Results Our disclosure and analysis in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events and can generally be identified by the use of statements that include words such as "estimate," "project," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will," "goal," "target" or similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of the Company's control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including: the Company's ability: to achieve revenue and profitability; to leverage its operating platform and reduce operating expenses; to manage the increased seasonality of its business; to cost effectively acquire and retain customers; to effectively integrate and grow acquired companies, including the recent acquisition of Harry & David; to reduce working capital requirements and capital expenditures; to compete against existing and new competitors; to manage expenses associated with sales and marketing and necessary general and administrative and technology investments; and to cost efficiently manage inventories; the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings in the normal course of business; and general consumer sentiment and economic conditions that may affect levels of discretionary customer purchases of the Company's products. 31 We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historic results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers can find them in Part I, Item 1A, of that filing under the heading "Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995". We incorporate that section of that Form 10-K in this filing and investors should refer to it.ITEM 1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 1 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 Note 1 Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. They do not include all of the information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for the three and nine month periods ended March 27, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending July 3, 2016. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015. The Company's quarterly results may experience seasonal fluctuations. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, including the acquisition of Harry & David Holdings, Inc. ("Harry & David") on September 30, 2014, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. Additionally, due to the number of major floral gifting occasions, including Mother's Day, Valentine's Day and Administrative Professionals Week, revenues also rise during the Company's fiscal third and fourth quarters in comparison to its fiscal first quarter. The Easter Holiday, which was on April 5th in fiscal 2015, fell on March 27th in fiscal 2016. As a result of the timing of Easter, during fiscal 2016, all revenue and EBITDA associated with the Easter Holiday shifted into the Company's fiscal third quarter. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service contract. Upon adoption, an entity has the option to apply the provisions of ASU 2015-05 either prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified, or retrospectively. This standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from that debt liability, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. This presentation is consistent with the guidance in Concepts Statement 6, which states that debt issuance costs are similar to a debt discount and in effect reduce the proceeds of borrowing, thereby increasing the effective interest rate. Concepts Statement 6 further states that debt issuance costs are not assets because they provide no future economic benefit. This new guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017 and should be applied retrospectively. 5 In November 2015 the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, "Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes," which will require entities to present deferred tax assets ("DTAs") and deferred tax liabilities ("DTLs") as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU simplifies the current guidance (ASC 740-10-45-4), which requires entities to separately present DTAs and DTLs as current and noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. However, the FASB allowed early adoption of the standard, and therefore, the Company adopted this ASU as of December 27, 2015, and has reclassified all prior periods to be consistent with the requirements outlined in the ASU. The impact of the adoption was to reclassify and net $4.9 million of current deferred tax assets within long-term deferred tax liabilities, as of June 28, 2015. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, "Financial Instruments Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The pronouncement requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes, requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset, and eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost. These changes become effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)." Under this guidance, an entity is required to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 28, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016 the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows, including recognizing all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement rather than in additional paid-in capital. ASU No. 2016-09 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Reclassifications Certain balances in the prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform to the presentation in the current fiscal year. S ee "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" above regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU No. 2015-17 upon the classification of deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheets. 6 Note 2 Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share: Note (1): The effect of options to purchase 0.1 million shares for both the three and nine months ended March 27, 2016 and 0.1 million and 0.3 million shares for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2015, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of net income (loss) per share on a diluted basis as their effect is anti-dilutive. Note (2) As a result of the net loss from continuing operations attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. for the three months ended March 27, 2016 and March 29, 2015, there is no dilutive impact to the net loss per share calculation for the respective periods. Note 3 Stock-Based Compensation The Company has a Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan, which is more fully described in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, that provides for the grant to eligible employees, consultants and directors of stock options, restricted shares, and other stock-based awards. The amounts of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the periods presented are as follows: 7 Stock-based compensation is recorded within the following line items of operating expenses: The following table summarizes stock option activity during thenine months ended March 27, 2016: As of March 27, 2016, the total future compensation cost related to non-vested options, not yet recognized in the statement of income, was $1.3 million and the weighted average period over which these awards are expected to be recognized was 3.2 years. The Company grants shares of Common Stock to its employees that are subject to restrictions on transfer and risk of forfeiture until fulfillment of applicable service conditions and, in certain cases, holding periods (Restricted Stock). The following table summarizes the activity of non-vested restricted stock awards during thenine months ended March 27, 2016: The fair value of non-vested shares is determined based on the closing stock price on the grant date. As of March 27, 2016, there was $9.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock-based compensation to be recognized over the weighted-average remaining period of 2.3 years. Note 4 Acquisitions and Dispositions Acquisition of Harry & David On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Harry & David, a leading multi-channel specialty retailer and producer of branded premium gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and other gifts marketed under the Harry & David brands. The transaction, for a purchase price of $142.5 million, included the Harry & David's brands and websites as well as its headquarters, manufacturing and distribution facilities and orchards in Medford, Oregon, a warehouse and distribution facility in Hebron, Ohio and 48 Harry & David retail stores located throughout the country. 8 During the quarter ended June 28, 2015, the Company finalized the allocation of the purchase price to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on its estimates of their fair values on the acquisition date. The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities (and the related determination of estimated lives of depreciable tangible and identifiable intangible assets) requires significant judgment. The estimates and assumptions include the projected timing and amount of future cash flows and discount rates reflecting risk inherent in the future cash flows. Of the acquired intangible assets, $5.2 million was assigned to customer lists, which are being amortized over the estimated remaining lives of between 4 to 11 years, $35.5 million was assigned to trademarks, $1.1 million was assigned to leasehold positions and $16.0 million was assigned to goodwill, which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill recognized in conjunction with our acquisition of Harry & David is primarily related to synergistic value created in terms of both operating costs and revenue growth opportunities, enhanced financial and operational scale, and other strategic benefits. It also includes certain other intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition, such as an assembled workforce. The following table summarizes the final allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of the acquisition: The estimated fair value of the acquired work in process and finished goods inventory was determined utilizing the income approach. The income approach estimates the fair value of the inventory based on the net retail value of the inventory less operating expenses and a reasonable profit allowance. Raw materials inventory was valued at book value, as there have not been any significant price fluctuations or other events that would materially change the cost to replace the raw materials. The estimated fair value of the deferred revenue was determined based on the costs to perform the remaining services and/or satisfy the Company's remaining obligations, plus a reasonable profit for those activities. These remaining costs exclude sales and marketing expenses since the Deferred Revenue has already been "sold," and no additional sales and marketing expenses will be incurred. The reasonable profit to be earned on the deferred revenue was estimated based on the profit mark-up that the Company earns on similar services. The estimated fair value of property, plant and equipment was determined utilizing a combination of the cost, sales comparison, market, and excess earnings method approaches, as follows: Under the cost approach a replacement cost of the asset is first determined based on replacing the real property with assets of equal utility and functionality, developed based on both the indirect and the direct cost methods. The indirect cost method includes multiplying the assets' historical costs by industry specific inflationary trend factors to yield an estimated replacement cost. In applying this method, all direct and indirect costs including tax, freight, installation, engineering and other associated soft costs were considered. The direct cost method includes obtaining a current replacement cost estimate from the Company and equipment dealers, which includes all applicable direct and indirect costs. An appropriate depreciation allowance is then applied to the replacement cost based on the effective age of the assets relative to the expected normal useful lives of the assets, condition of the assets, and the planned future utilization of the assets. The determination of fair value also includes considerations of functional obsolescence and economic obsolescence, where applicable. 9 The sales comparison approach was considered for certain real estate property. Under the sales comparison approach, an estimate of fair value is determined by comparing the property being valued to similar properties that have been sold within a reasonable period from the valuation date, applying appropriate units of comparison. The market approach was considered for certain assets with active secondary markets including agricultural equipment, automobiles, computer equipment, general equipment, mobile equipment, packaging machinery and semi-tractors. Under the market approach market, comparables for the assets are obtained from equipment dealers, resellers, industry databases, and published price guides. The market comparables are then adjusted to the subject assets based on age, condition or type of transaction. All applicable direct and indirect costs are also considered and reflected in the final fair value determination. The fair value of orchards in production was determined based on the excess earnings method under the income approach. This valuation approach assumed that the orchards' production could be sold independently through a wholesale market rather than Harry & David's retail channel. The excess earnings method required calculating future crop revenue as determined by multiplying the future crop volume in tons to be produced by the projected price per ton based on the USDA "Agricultural Prices" report released January 31, 2015 by the National Agricultural Statistics Services. Appropriate expenses were deducted from the sales attributable to the orchards and economic rents were charged for the return on contributory assets. The after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset were discounted back to their net present value at an appropriate rate of return and summed to calculate the value of the orchards. The estimated fair value of the acquired trademarks was determined using the relief from royalty method, which is a risk-adjusted discounted cash flow approach. The relief from royalty method values an intangible asset by estimating the royalties saved through ownership of the asset. The relief from royalty method requires identifying the future revenue that would be generated by the trademark, multiplying it by a royalty rate deemed to be avoided through ownership of the asset and discounting the projected royalty savings amounts back to the acquisition date. The royalty rate used in the valuation was based on a consideration of market rates for similar categories of assets. The discount rate used in the valuation was based on the Company's weighted average cost of capital, the riskiness of the earnings stream association with the trademarks and the overall composition of the acquired assets. The estimated fair value of the acquired customer lists was determined using the excess earnings method under the income approach. This method requires identifying the future revenue that would be generated by existing customers at the time of the acquisition, considering an appropriate attrition rate based on the historical experience of the Company. Appropriate expenses are then deducted from the revenues and economic rents are charged for the return on contributory assets. The after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted back to their net present value at an appropriate intangible asset rate of return and summed to calculate the value of the customer lists. Disposition of Colonial Gifts Limited On December 3, 2013, the Company completed its acquisition of a controlling interest in Colonial Gifts Limited ("iFlorist"). iFlorist, located in the UK, is a direct-to-consumer marketer of floral and gift-related products sold and delivered throughout Europe. The acquisition was achieved in stages and was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the FASB's guidance regarding business combinations. During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company's management committed to a plan to sell its iFlorist business in order to focus its internal resources and capital on integrating Harry & David and achieving expected synergy savings. During October 2015, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of iFlorist to Euroflorist AB ("Euroflorist"), a pan-European floral and gifting company headquartered in Malmo, Sweden. As consideration for the assets sold, the Company received an investment in Euroflorist with a fair value on the date of sale of approximately $1.5 million. The Company will account for this investment using the cost method as it does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence over Euroflorist. 10 As a result of the above, the Company determined that the iFlorist business (disposal group) met the held for sale criteria, as prescribed by FASB ASC 360-10-45-9, as of September 27, 2015. As a result, the Company compared iFlorist's carrying amount ($3.4 million) to its fair value less cost to sell ($1.5 million), and recorded an impairment charge of $1.9 million during the period ended September 27, 2015. The Company recorded this impairment charge within "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. During the quarter ended December 27, 2016, the Company completed the sale of the iFlorist business and recorded an additional loss on sale of $0.2 million. Note 5 Inventory The Company's inventory, stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, includes purchased and manufactured finished goods for sale, packaging supplies, crops, raw material ingredients for manufactured products and associated manufacturing labor and is classified as follows: Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets The following table presents goodwill by segment and the related change in the net carrying amount: (1) The total carrying amount of goodwill for all periods in the table above is reflected net of $71.1 million of accumulated impairment charges, which were recorded in the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment during fiscal 2009. The Company's other intangible assets consist of the following: Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Future estimated amortization expense is as follows: remainder of fiscal 2016 - $0.3 million, fiscal 2017 - $1.5 million, fiscal 2018 - $1.3 million, fiscal 2019 - $0.7 million, fiscal 2020 - $0.6 million and thereafter - $3.7 million. 11 Note 7 Investments The Company has certain investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies. The Company accounts for these investments using the equity method if they provide the Company the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investee's Board of Directors, are considered in determining whether the equity method is appropriate. The Company records equity method investments initially at cost, and adjusts the carrying amount to reflect the Company's share of the earnings or losses of the investee. The Company's equity method investments are comprised of a 32% interest in Flores Online, a Sao Paulo, Brazil based internet floral and gift retailer, that the Company made on May 31, 2012. The book value of this investment was $1.1 million as of March 27, 2016 and $2.9 million as of June 28, 2015 , and is included in Other assets within the condensed consolidated balance sheets. The Company's equity in the net loss of Flores Online for the quarters ended March 27, 2016 and March 29, 2015 was less than $0.1 million. During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company determined that the fair value of its investment in Flores Online ($1.2 million) was below its carrying value ($2.9 million) and that this decline was other-than-temporary. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.7 million, which is included within "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, where the Company does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments are originally recorded at cost, and are included within Other assets in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. The aggregate carrying amount of the Company's cost method investments was $2.3 million as of March 27, 2016 (including a $1.5 million investment in Euroflorist see Note 4 above) and $0.7 million as of June 28, 2015. The Company also holds certain trading securities associated with its Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan ("NQDC Plan"). These investments are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in Other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets (see Note 10). Each reporting period, the Company uses available qualitative and quantitative information to evaluate its investments for impairment. When a decline in fair value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. Note 8 Debt The Company's current and long-term debt consists of the following: (1) In order to finance the Harry & David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in December 2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. 12 The 2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company was in compliance with these covenants as of March 27, 2016. Outstanding amounts under the 2014 Credit Facility bear interest at the Company's option at either: (i) LIBOR, plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined by the Company's leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 basis points. The 2014 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Future principal payments under the term loan are as follows: $3.5 million 2016, $19.6 million 2017, $21.4 million 2018, $26.7 million 2019 and $49.9 million 2020. (2) Bank loan assumed through the Company's acquisition of a majority interest in iFlorist. The Company repaid this loan during the quarter ended December 27, 2015. Note 9 - Property, Plant and Equipment The Company's property, plant and equipment consists of the following: Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements Cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. Although no trading market exists, the Company believes that the carrying amount of its debt approximates fair value due to its variable nature. The Company's investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies are carried at cost and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, when an event or circumstances indicate that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The Company's remaining financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value (see table below). The Company's non-financial assets, such as definite lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist, as required under the accounting standards. 13 Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability, in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under the guidance are described below: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The following table presents by level, within the fair value hierarchy, financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: (1) The Company has established a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for certain members of senior management. Deferred compensation plan assets are invested in mutual funds held in a "rabbi trust" which is restricted for payment to participants of the NQDC Plan. Trading securities held in a rabbi trust are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in Other assets, with the corresponding liability included in Other liabilities, in the consolidated balance sheets. Note 11 Income Taxes At the end of each interim reporting period, the Company estimates its effective income tax rate expected to be applicable for the full year. This estimate is used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis and may change in subsequent interim periods. The Company's effective tax rate from operations for the three months and nine months ended March 27, 2016 was 37.6% and 31.7% respectively, compared to 39.5% and 35.8% in the same periods of the prior year. The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the domestic production deduction and various tax credits such as employment credits and research and development credits that were renewed by U.S. Congress in December 2015, as well as the impact of the Company's reduced effective foreign tax rate in the UK resulting from the recent sale of iFlorist in October 2015, partially offset by state income taxes. The effective rate for fiscal 2015 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, and other permanent differences, partially offset by tax credits. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state jurisdictions, and various foreign countries. The Company is currently under U.S. federal examination for fiscal 2014 while fiscal years 2012, 2013, and 2015 remain subject to U.S. federal examination. Due to ongoing state examinations and non-conformity with the U.S. federal statute of limitations for assessment, certain states remain open from fiscal 2011. The Company commenced operations in foreign jurisdictions in 2012. The Company's foreign income tax filings are open for examination by its respective foreign tax authorities, mainly Canada and the United Kingdom. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties accrued on any unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. At March 27, 2016 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.6 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that none of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. 14 Note 12 Business Segments The Company's management reviews the results of the Company's operations by the following three business segments: 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral, BloomNet Wire Service, and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets Segment performance is measured based on contribution margin, which includes only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead (see (*) below), nor does it include depreciation and amortization, other (income) expense, net and income taxes, or stock-based compensation and certain Harry & David acquisition/integration costs, both of which are included within corporate overhead. Assets and liabilities are reviewed at the consolidated level by management and not accounted for by segment. (a) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above categories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. 15 Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business: Edible Arrangements: On November 20, 2014, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut by Edible Arrangements LLC and Edible Arrangements International, LLC, alleging that the Company's use of the terms "Fruit Bouquets," "Edible," "Bouquet," "Edible Fruit Arrangements," Edible Arrangements," and "DoFruit" and its use of a six petal pineapple slice design in connection with marketing and selling edible fruit arrangements constitutes trademark infringement, false designation of origin, dilution, and contributory infringement under the federal Lanham Act, 29 USC 1114 and 1125(a), common law unfair competition, and a violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act, Connecticut General Statutes 42-110b (a). The Complaint alleges Edible Arrangements has been damaged in the amount of $97,411,000. The Complaint requests a declaratory judgment in favor of Edible Arrangements, an injunction against the Company's use of the terms and design, an accounting and payment of the Company's profits from its sale of edible fruit arrangements, a trebling of the Company's profits from such sales or of any damages sustained by Edible Arrangements, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees. On November 24, 2014, the Complaint was amended to add a breach of contract claim for use of these terms and the design, based on a contract that had been entered by one of the Company's remote subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by the Company. On January 29, 2015, the Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to add one of the Company's subsidiaries and to claim its damages were $ 101,436,000. The Company filed an Answer and a Counterclaim on February 27, 2015. The Answer asserts substantial defenses, including fair use by the Company of generic and descriptive terms, as expressly permitted under the Lanham Act, invalidity of Edible Arrangements' trademark registrations on grounds of fraud and trademark misuse, lack of exclusive rights on the part of Edible Arrangements, functionality of the claimed design mark, acquiescence, estoppel, and Edible Arrangements' use of the claimed trademarks in violation of the antitrust laws. The Counterclaim seeks a declaratory judgment of lack of infringement and invalidity of claimed marks, cancellation of Edible Arrangements' registrations due to its fraud and misuse, genericism, and lack of secondary meaning as to any terms deemed descriptive, and damages in an amount to be determined for violation of the antitrust provisions of the federal Sherman Act and the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. By Order dated May 4, 2015, the court ordered a phasing of the case and bifurcated the antitrust Counterclaim from the infringement claims. Discovery has begun and is continuing. Edible Arrangements filed a motion to dismiss the Company's Sherman Act and Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act claims. The Company filed its brief in opposition to the motion to dismiss on July 10, 2015. On November 12, 2015, following oral argument before the Court, the Court denied Edible Arrangements' motion seeking to dismiss the Company's federal Sherman Act and Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act claims. The Company believes its Counterclaims to the Edible Arrangements' claims are meritorious and that there are substantial defenses to all of the Edible Arrangements' claims and expects to defend the claims vigorously. At this time, we are unable to estimate a possible loss or range of possible loss for the aforementioned action for various reasons, including, among others: (i) the damages sought are indeterminate, (ii) the proceeding is in the early stages, and (iii) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of the pending motion. As a result of the foregoing, we have determined that the amount of possible loss or range of loss is not reasonably estimable. However, legal matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which may be beyond our control. Note 14. Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution Facility On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple Heights, Ohio warehouse and distribution facility. While the fire did not cause any injuries, the building was severely damaged, rendering it inoperable for the key calendar 2014 holiday season, and all Fannie May and Harry London confections in the facility were destroyed. As a result, the Company had limited supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products available in its retail stores as well as for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during the 2014 holiday season. While the Company implemented contingency plans to increase production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products at its production facility in Canton, Ohio and to shift warehousing and distribution operations to alternate Company facilities, product availability was severely limited, impacting revenue and earnings during the fiscal second and third quarters of fiscal 2015. 16 The following table reflects the costs related to the fire and the insurance recovery and associated gain as of March 27, 2016: During the three months ended September 27, 2015, the Company and its insurance carrier reached final agreement, and during the three months ended December 27, 2015, the Company received all remaining proceeds from its Fannie May fire claim. The agreement, in the amount of $55.0 million, provided for: (i) recovery of raw materials and work-in-process at replacement cost, and finished goods at selling price, less costs to complete the sale and normal discounts and other charges, as well as (ii) other incremental fire-related costs. The cost of inventory lost in the fire was approximately $29.6 million, while other fire-related costs amounted to approximately $5.8 million, including incremental contracted lease and cold storage fees which were incurred by the Company until the move back into its leased facility once the landlord completed repairs, during the Company's third quarter of fiscal 2016. The resulting gain of $19.6 million is included in "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine months ended March 27, 2016. 17 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Forward Looking Statements This "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (MD&A) is intended to provide an understanding of our financial condition, change in financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and results of operations. The following MD&A discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this Form10-Q and in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed or referred to in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to any differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption "Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results" and under Part I, Item 1A, of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Risk Factors." Overview 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a leading provider of gourmet food and floral gifts for all occasions. For the past 40 years, 1-800-FLOWERS(1-800-356-9377 orwww.1800flowers.com )has been helping deliver smiles for our customers with gifts for every occasion, including fresh flowers and the finest selection of plants, gift baskets, gourmet foods, confections, candles, balloons and plush stuffed animals. As always, our 100% Smile Guarantee backs every gift.The company's Celebrations suite of services including Celebrations Passport Free Shipping/No Service Charge program, Celebrations Rewards and Celebrations Reminders SM , are all designed to engage with customers and deepen relationships as a one-stop destination for all celebratory and gifting occasions. In 2016, 1-800-Flowers.com was awarded a Silver Stevie "e-Commerce Customer Service" Award, recognizing the company's innovative use of online technologies and social media to service the needs of customers. In addition, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. was recognized as one of Internet Retailer's Top 300 B2B e-commerce companies and was also recently named in Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 as one of the world's leading mobile commerce sites. The Company was included in Internet Retailer's 2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce companies. In 2015, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was named a winner of the "Best Companies to Work for in New York State" award by The New York Society for Human Resource Management (NYS-SHRM). The Company's BloomNet international floral wire service (www.mybloomnet.net )provides a broad range of quality products and value-added services designed to help professional florists grow their businesses profitably. The1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. "Gift Shop" also includes gourmet gifts such aspremium, gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items from Harry & David (1-877-322-1200 or www.harryanddavid.com ),popcorn and specialty treats from The Popcorn Factory (1-800-541-2676 or www.thepopcornfactory.com );cookies and baked gifts from Cheryl's (1-800-443-8124 orwww.cheryls.com );premium chocolates and confections from Fannie May (www.fanniemay.com andwww.harrylondon.com );gift baskets and towers from 1-800- Baskets.com (www.1800baskets.com );premium English muffins and other breakfast treats from Wolferman's (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com ); carved fresh fruit arrangements from FruitBouquets.com(www.fruitbouquets.com );and top quality steaks and chops from Stock Yards(www.stockyards.com ). On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Harry & David Holdings, Inc. ("Harry & David"), a leading multi-channel specialty retailer and producer of branded premium gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and other gifts marketed under the Harry & David, Wolferman's and Cushman's brands. The transaction, at a purchase price of $142.5 million, included the Harry & David's brands and websites as well as its headquarters, manufacturing and distribution facilities and orchards in Medford, Oregon, a warehouse and distribution facility in Hebron, Ohio and 46 Harry & David retail stores located throughout the country. Harry & David's revenues were approximately $386 million in fiscal 2014, with Adjusted EBITDA of approximately $28 million. The historical results of Harry & David, as well as applicable pro forma results are included in the Company's Form 8-K/A filed on December 16, 2014. In order to finance the acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to the applicable sublimit) and general corporate purposes. 18 Shares in 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, ticker symbol: FLWS. Category Information The following table presents the net revenues, gross profit and category contribution margin from each of the Company's business segments, as well as consolidated EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDAand adjusted net income (loss). (Due to certain one-time items, the following Non-GAAP reconciliation tables have been included within MD&A. In order to present comparable information, the financial information for the three and nine months ended March 27, 2016 and March 29, 2015 is also being presented on a pro-forma basis to give effect to the Harry & David acquisition as if it had been completed on June 30, 2014, and to provide the estimated impact of the Fannie May warehouse fire in November 2014 on the Company's operations. This pro-forma information has been prepared by management for informational purposes only, and is not necessarily indicative of or intended to represent the results that would have been achieved had the acquisition been consummated as of this date. The pre-acquisition operating results of Harry & David, for the three months ended September 28, 2014, included within this pro-forma information, do not reflect any operating efficiencies and/or cost savings that the Company may achieve with respect to the combined companies, but have been adjusted to give effect to non-recurring items that are directly attributable to the acquisition.) 19 20 21 22 (a) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above categories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. (b) Performance is measured based on segment contribution margin or segment Adjusted EBITDA, reflecting only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead, described above, depreciation and amortization, other income (net), nor does it include one-time charges or gains. Management utilizes EBITDA, and adjusted financial information, as a performance measurement tool because it considers such information a meaningful supplemental measure of its performance and believes it is frequently used by the investment community in the evaluation of companies with comparable market capitalization. The Company also uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information as one of the factors used to determine the total amount of bonuses available to be awarded to executive officers and other employees. The Company's credit agreement uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information to measure compliance with covenants such as interest coverage and debt incurrence. EBITDA and adjusted financial information is also used by the Company to evaluate and price potential acquisition candidates. EBITDA and adjusted financial information have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: (a) EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, the Company's working capital needs; (b) EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on the Company's debts; and (c) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such capital expenditures. Because of these limitations, EBITDA should only be used on a supplemental basis combined with GAAP results when evaluating the Company's performance. 23 Results of Operations Net Revenues Net revenues consist primarily of the selling price of the merchandise, service or outbound shipping charges, less discounts, returns and credits. Net revenues increased 0.8% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year as a result of the incremental revenue resulting from the earlier timing of the Easter holiday which occurred in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 of approximately $7.4 million, and the recovery of Gourmet Foods & Gift Baskets revenue lost in the prior year period due to the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire of approximately $3.4 million, partially offset by the impact of the dispositions of Fine Stationery in June 2015 and iFlorist in October 2015, which, on a combined basis, generated $3.4 million of incremental revenues in the prior year period, and the decline in the Consumer Floral segment due to the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day. Net Revenues increased 5.1% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year as a result of growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, due to the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, organic growth of Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets wholesale gift business, and the incremental revenue resulting from the earlier Easter holiday, partially offset by the impact of the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day, as well as the dispositions of the iFlorist and Fine Stationery businesses during October 2015 and June 2015, respectively (which generated $10.4 million of incremental revenues in the prior year period). E-commerce revenues (combined online and telephonic) increased by 0.8% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the incremental revenue resulting from the timing of the Easter holiday which occurred on March 27, 2016 in fiscal 2016 compared to April 5, 2015 in fiscal 2015, and the recovery of Gourmet Foods & Gift Baskets revenue lost in the prior year period due to the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, partially offset by the impact of the dispositions of Fine Stationery in June 2015 and iFlorist in October 2015, and the anticipated decline in the Consumer Floral segment, due to the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day. During the three months ended March 27, 2016, the Company fulfilled approximately 2,860,000 orders through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales), compared to approximately 2,722,000 during the same period of the prior year, while the average order value decreased to $62.74 during the three months ended March 27, 2016 from $65.37 during the same period of the prior year. E-commerce revenues increased 3.8%, during the nine months ended March 27, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, as a result of the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, and the incremental revenue resulting from the earlier Easter holiday, partially offset by the impact of the dispositions of Fine Stationery in June 2015 and iFlorist in October 2015, and the anticipated decline in the Consumer Floral segment, due to the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day. The Company fulfilled approximately 9,508,000 orders during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, compared to approximately 9,243,000 during the same period of the prior year, through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales), while the average order value increased to $73.24 during the nine months ended March 27, 2016 from $72.60 during the same period of the prior year. 24 Other revenues are comprised of the Company's BloomNet Wire Service segment, as well as the wholesale and retail channels of its 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segments. Other revenues increased by 0.8% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily due to growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, due to the incremental revenue resulting from the timing of the Easter holiday, and the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving 2014 Fannie May warehouse fire, partially offset by the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day. Other revenues increased by 9.0% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, resulting from the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014 , the incremental revenue resulting from the timing of the Easter holiday, organic growth of Cheryl's and 1-800-Baskets wholesale gift business, and the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving 2014 Fannie May warehouse fire, partially offset by the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment includes the operations of the 1-800-Flowers.com brand, which derives revenue from the sale of consumer floral products through its e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales) and royalties from its franchise operations, as well as iFlorist, a UK based e-commerce retailer of floral products (through the date of its disposition in October 2015), and Fine Stationery, an e-commerce retailer of stationery products (through the date of its disposition in June 2015). Net revenues decreased 3.0% and 3.4%, respectively, during the three and nine months ended March 27, 2016, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, as a result of lower order volume resulting from the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day, and the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery, partially offset by the timing impact of the earlier Easter holiday of approximately $1.7 million. The BloomNet Wire Service segment includes revenues from membership fees as well as other product and service offerings to florists. Net revenues decreased 1.9% during the three months ended March 27, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year primarily as a result of the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day. Net revenues for the for the nine months ended March 27, 2016, increased 1.1% compared to the same period of the prior year, due to a combination of higher wholesale volume and BloomNet initiatives including the implementation of a new florist transaction program in the 3rd quarter of fiscal 2015 . The Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment includes the operations of Harry & David, Wolferman's, Stockyards, Cheryl's, Fannie May, Harry London, The Popcorn Factory and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac.Revenue is derived from the sale of gourmet fruits, cookies, baked gifts, premium chocolates and confections, gourmet popcorn, gift baskets, and prime steaks and chops through the Company's e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales) and company-owned and operated retail stores under the Harry & David, Cheryl's and Fannie May brand names, as well as wholesale operations. Net revenues increased 6.6% during the three months ended March 27, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year, due to the incremental revenue resulting from the earlier timing of the Easter holiday of approximately $5.8 million, and the impact on prior year revenues lost as a result of the Thanksgiving 2014 Fannie May warehouse fire, offset in part by the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day. Net revenues for the nine months ended March 27, 2016 increased 10.2% compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the incremental revenue generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, incremental revenue resulting from the earlier timing of the Easter holiday, and the impact on prior year revenues of the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire. Gross Profit Gross profit consists of net revenues less cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid directly to florists), the cost of floral and non-floral merchandise sold from inventory or through third parties, and associated costs including inbound and outbound shipping charges. Additionally, cost of revenues include labor and facility costs related to direct-to-consumer and wholesale production operations. 25 Gross profit increased 1.5% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of: (i) the aforementioned revenue growth resulting from the earlier timing of the Easter holiday, (ii) the recovery of Gourmet Foods & Gift Baskets revenues and associated gross profit lost in the prior year period due to the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, and (iii) synergy savings resulting from the integration of Harry & David, partially offset by the anticipated decline in sales, and associated gross profit as a result of the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day, as well as the impact of the dispositions of Fine Stationery in June 2015 and iFlorist in October 2015. Gross margin percentage increased 30 basis points to 41.3% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, in comparison to the same period of the prior year due to synergy savings resulting from the integration of Harry & David, and the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery businesses which carried lower gross margins. Gross profit increased 7.1% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily as a result of the incremental revenue and associated gross margins generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the recovery from the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, and the impact of the earlier timing of the Easter holiday, partially offset by the impact of the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day and the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery in October 2015 and June 2015, respectively. Gross margin percentage increased 80 basis points to 44.4% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, in comparison to the same period of the prior year due to synergy savings resulting from the integration of Harry & David, the mix of sales associated with the recovery from the warehouse fire, higher margins earned by Harry & David, and the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery businesses which carried lower gross margins. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment gross profit increased by 0.6% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, in comparison to the same period of the prior year, while gross margin percentage increased 140 basis points to 40.6% due to synergistic savings which reduced shipping costs, as well as sourcing improvements, and reductions in customer service issues and discounts, which more than offset the loss of margin caused by the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day (partially offset by the benefit from the timing of the Easter holiday) and the dispositions of Fine Stationery and iFlorist in June 2015 and October 2015, respectively. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment gross profit during the nine months ended March 27, 2016 was consistent with the same period of the prior year, while gross margin percentage increased 130 basis points as the timing of the earlier Easter Holiday and the benefit of synergy savings due to integration initiatives, which reduced shipping costs, as well as sourcing improvements and reductions in discounts, offset the loss of gross profit due to the dispositions of iFlorist and Fine Stationery, and the loss of margin caused by the Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day. The BloomNet Wire Service segment gross profit decreased by 1.5% during the three months ended March 27, 2016 due to the revenue decline related to the aforementioned Sunday date placement of Valentine's Day, while gross margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 55.0%, as a result of sales mix. During the nine months ended March 27, 2016, gross profit increased 1.8% and gross margin percentage increased 40 basis points to 55.5%, as a result of sales mix, which included an increase in higher margin membership fees. The Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment gross profit increased 3.2% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year due to the incremental gross margin resulting from the earlier timing of the Easter holiday and recovery of revenues and associated gross profit lost in the prior year period due to the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire, partially offset by an unfavorable gross margin percentage which decreased 120 basis points to 38.4%, due to product mix and increased discounts and markdowns. During the nine months ended March 27, 2016, Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment gross profit increased 11.2% and 40 basis points to 45.0%, compared to the same period of the prior year as a result of the incremental revenue and associated gross margins generated by Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014, the incremental gross margin resulting from the earlier timing of the Easter holiday, and the recovery from the Thanksgiving Day Fannie May warehouse fire. 26 Marketing and Sales Expense Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search costs, retail store and fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues) and customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the Company's departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising activities. Marketing and sales expense increased 1.3% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily due to the efforts of Harry & David and Fannie May to spur demand, partially offset by improved marketing efficiency within the Consumer Floral segment. Marketing and sales expense increased 6.7% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the incremental marketing expenses of Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014. Similarly, as a percentage of net revenues, marketing and selling expenses increased from 25.5% during the nine months ended March 29, 2015 to 25.9% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016 as a result of the Harry & David business which was acquired on September 30, 2104. Technology and Development Expense Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating expenses of the Company's information technology group, costs associated with its websites, including hosting, design, content development and maintenance and support costs related to the Company's order entry, customer service, fulfillment and database systems. Technology and development expenses decreased 4.7% during the three months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of favorable labor costs, partially offset by increased license and maintenance costs. Technology and development expenses increased 14.8% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily due to the technology and development costs of Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014. Similarly, as a percentage of net revenues, technology and development expenses increased from 2.8% during the nine months ended March 29, 2015 to 3.1% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016 as a result of the Harry & David business which was acquired on September 30, 2014. 27 General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists of payroll and other expenses in support of the Company's executive, finance and accounting, legal, human resources and other administrative functions, as well as professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expense decreased 7.8% during the three months ended March 27, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily as a result of integration expenses related to Harry & David of $1.7 million in the prior year. Similarly, as a percentage of net revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased from 9.8% during the three months ended March 29, 2015 to 9.0% during the three months ended March 27, 2016 as a result of the aforementioned Harry & David integration expenses incurred in the prior year period . General and administrative expense decreased 1.6% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as result of synergistic savings, as well as a decreases in performance based bonuses, partially offset by the incremental general and administrative expenses of Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014. Similarly, as a percentage of net revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased from 6.9% during the nine months ended March 29, 2015 to 6.5% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016 as a result of synergy savings, a decrease in performance based bonuses and integration expenses incurred in the prior year period , partially offset by the incremental general and administrative expenses of Harry & David, which was acquired on September 30, 2014. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by 3.6% duringthe three months ended March 27, 2016, in comparison to the same period of the prior year due to dispositions of Fine Stationery in June 2015 and iFlorist in October 2015. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 12.4% during the nine months ended March 27, 2016, in comparison to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the incremental depreciation and amortization expenses of Harry & David, acquired on September 30, 2014, including the impact of the additional intangibles amortization,as well as a result of the Company's technology improvements. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs attributable to the Company's credit facility, net of income earned on the Company's available cash balances. 28 Interest expense, net decreased during the three months ended March 27, 2016 in comparison to the same period of the prior year, as a result of scheduled repayments of term debt used to finance the Harry & David acquisition. Interest expense, net increased during the nine months ended March 27, 2016 in comparison to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the additional interest expense and deferred financing costs associated with the term debt used to finance the Harry & David acquisition, entered into on September 30, 2014 and the additional interest expense on the Company's revolver to fund the working capital requirements of Harry & David during the first quarter of the current fiscal year. Other (income) expense, net Other (income) expense, net for the three months ended March 27, 2016 consists primarily of the Company's Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan and its equity interest in Flores Online. Other (income) expense, net for the nine months ended March 27, 2016 consists primarily of a $19.6 million gain on insurance recoveries related to the Fannie May warehouse fire, offset by a $2.1 million impairment of iFlorist assets held for sale and loss on sale, a $1.7 million impairment of the Flores Online investment, and a decline in the value of Non-qualified deferred compensation investments. Income Taxes The Company recorded income tax benefit of $5.5 million and income tax expense of $21.8 million, during the three and nine months ended March 27, 2016, respectively, compared to income tax benefit of $7.1 million and income tax expense of $16.8 million, respectively for the same periods of the prior year. The Company's effective tax rate from operations for the three months and nine months ended March 27, 2016 was 37.6% and 31.7% respectively, compared to 39.5% and 35.8% in the same periods of the prior year. The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the domestic production deduction and various tax credits such as employment credits and research and development credits that were renewed by U.S. Congress in December 2015, as well as the impact of the Company's reduced effective foreign tax rate in the UK resulting from the sale of iFlorist in October 2015, partially offset by state income taxes. The effective rate for fiscal 2015 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, and other permanent differences, partially offset by tax credits. At March 27, 2016 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.6 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that none of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows At March 27, 2016, the Company had working capital of $63.5 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $61.7 million, compared to working capital of $31.5 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $27.9 million, at June 28, 2015. Note that the June 28, 2015 working capital balance has been restated due to the adoption of ASU No. 2015-17, which reclassified $4.9 million of current deferred tax assets within long-term deferred tax liabilities, resulting in a corresponding reduction in working capital. Net cash provided by operating activities of $77.0 million for the nine months ended March 27, 2016, was primarily attributable to the Company's net income during the period, adjusted by non-cash charges for depreciation/amortization, stock based compensation and the impairments/sale of iFlorist and a foreign equity investment, as well as seasonal changes in working capital, including cash provided by changes in accounts payable and accrued expenses and the collection of the Fannie May fire insurance settlement, partially offset by increases in accounts receivable primarily related to Easter sales and inventory as a result of pre-positioning of inventory. 29 Net cash used in investing activities of $20.0 million for the nine months ended March 27, 2016, was primarily attributable to capital expenditures related to the Company's technology infrastructure, as well as improvements and equipment purchases within the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment. Net cash used in financing activities of $23.2 million for the nine months ended March 27, 2016 was primarily for term debt repayments of $11.0 million and the acquisition of $13.0 million of treasury stock. As of March 27, 2016, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Company's revolving credit facility. Credit Facility In order to finance the acquisition of Harry & David, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in December 2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. The 2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Outstanding amounts under the 2014 Credit Facility will bear interest at the Company's option at either: (i) LIBOR, plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined by the Company's leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 basis points. The 2014 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Despite the current challenging economic environment, the Company believes that cash flows from operations along with available borrowings from its 2014 Credit Facility will be a sufficient source of liquidity. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, including the acquisition of Harry & David, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. As a result, the Company generated significant cash from operations during its second quarter, which is utilizing for operating needs during its fiscal third and fourth quarters, after which time the Company expects to borrow against its Revolver to fund pre-holiday manufacturing and inventory purchases during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Borrowings under the Revolver will typically peak in November, at which time cash generated from operations during the Christmas holiday shopping season are expected to again enable the Company to repay working capital borrowings prior to the end of its second quarter of fiscal 2017. Stock Repurchase Program The Company has a stock repurchase plan through which purchases can be made from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions, subject to general market conditions. The repurchase program is financed utilizing available cash. In June 2015, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an increase of $25 million to its stock repurchase plan. As of March 27, 2016, $14.3 million remains authorized under the plan. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business related to the Company's contractual obligations as discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28, 2015. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As disclosed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015, the discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventory, goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets and income taxes. There have been no significant changes to the assumptions and estimates related to the Company's critical accounting policies, since June 28, 2015. 30 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service contract. Upon adoption, an entity has the option to apply the provisions of ASU 2015-05 either prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified, or retrospectively. This standard is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from that debt liability, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. This presentation is consistent with the guidance in Concepts Statement 6, which states that debt issuance costs are similar to a debt discount and in effect reduce the proceeds of borrowing, thereby increasing the effective interest rate. Concepts Statement 6 further states that debt issuance costs are not assets because they provide no future economic benefit. This new guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 2, 2017 and should be applied retrospectively. In November 2015 the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, "Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes," which will require entities to present deferred tax assets ("DTAs") and deferred tax liabilities ("DTLs") as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU simplifies the current guidance (ASC 740-10-45-4), which requires entities to separately present DTAs and DTLs as current and noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. The FASB decided to allow all entities to early adopt the ASU for financial statements that had not been issued. Therefore, we adopted this ASU at March 27, 2016, and have reclassified all prior periods to be consistent with the requirements outlined in the ASU. The impact of the adoption was to reclassify and net $4.9 million of current deferred tax assets within long-term deferred tax liabilities, as of June 28, 2015. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, "Financial Instruments Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The pronouncement requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes, requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset, and eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost. These changes become effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 31 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)." Under this guidance, an entity is required to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 28, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016 the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows, including recognizing all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement rather than in additional paid-in capital. ASU No. 2016-09 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Forward Looking Information and Factors that May Affect Future Results Our disclosure and analysis in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events and can generally be identified by the use of statements that include words such as "estimate," "project," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will," "goal," "target" or similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of the Company's control that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including: the Company's ability: to achieve revenue and profitability; to leverage its operating platform and reduce operating expenses; to manage the increased seasonality of its business; to cost effectively acquire and retain customers; to effectively integrate and grow acquired companies, including the recent acquisition of Harry & David; to reduce working capital requirements and capital expenditures; to compete against existing and new competitors; to manage expenses associated with sales and marketing and necessary general and administrative and technology investments; and to cost efficiently manage inventories; the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings in the normal course of business; and general consumer sentiment and economic conditions that may affect levels of discretionary customer purchases of the Company's products. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. 32 We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2015 listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historic results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers can find them in Part I, Item 1A, of that filing under the heading "Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995". We incorporate that section of that Form 10-K in this filing and investors should refer to it.ITEM 1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-800-FLOWERS.COM,Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 1 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands, except per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Note 1 Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. They do not include all of the information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for the three month period ended October 2, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016. The Company 's quarterly results may experience seasonal fluctuations. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, including the acquisition of Harry & David Holdings, Inc. ("Harry & David") on September 30, 2014, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. Additionally, due to the number of major floral gifting occasions, including Mother's Day, Valentine's Day and Administrative Professionals Week, revenues also rise during the Company's fiscal third and fourth quarters in comparison to its fiscal first quarter. In fiscal 2016, the Easter Holiday was on March 27th, and as a result, all revenue and EBITDA associated with this holiday was within the Company's fiscal third quarter. In fiscal 2017, Easter falls on April 16th, which will result in the shift of some revenue and EBITDA from the Company's third quarter to its fourth quarter. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service contract. The Company adopted this standard prospectively to arrangements entered into, or materially modified, beginning on July 4, 2016. This adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability, and not recorded as a separate asset. The Company adopted this standard effective July 4, 2016 and applied it retrospectively to all periods presented. The impact of the adoption of the new guidance was to reclassify $3.6 million of deferred financing costs previously included within "Other Assets" to "Long-term debt" in the consolidated balance sheets as of July 3, 2016. 5 In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, "Inventory (Topic 330)." The pronouncement was issued to simplify the measurement of inventory and changes the measurement from lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 is effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The adoption of ASU 2015-11 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. In November 2015 the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, "Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes," which will require entities to present deferred tax assets ("DTAs") and deferred tax liabilities ("DTLs") as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU simplifies the current guidance (ASC 740-10-45-4), which requires entities to separately present DTAs and DTLs as current and noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU is effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. However, the FASB allowed early adoption of the standard, and the Company adopted this ASU as of December 27, 2015, and has reclassified all prior periods to be consistent with the requirements outlined in the ASU. This adoption had no impact on the financial statements presented within this form 10-Q. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, &quot;Financial Instruments Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The pronouncement requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes, requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset, and eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost. These changes become effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)." Under this guidance, an entity is required to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending June 28, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016 the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows, including recognizing all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement rather than in additional paid-in capital. ASU No. 2016-09 is effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." ASU 2016-13 introduces a new forward-looking "expected loss" approach, to estimate credit losses on most financial assets and certain other instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require entities to incorporate considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the entity's assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 4, 2021, and the guidance is to be applied using the modified-retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Reclassifications Certain balances in the prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform to the presentation in the current fiscal year. S ee "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" above regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU No. 2015-03 and ASU No. 2015-17. 6 Note 2 Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share Basic net loss per common share attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common share attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, and excludes the dilutive potential common shares (consisting of employee stock options and unvested restricted stock awards), as their inclusion would be antidilutive. As a result of the net loss attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. for the three months ended October 2, 2016 and September 27, 2015, there is no dilutive impact to the net loss per share calculation for the respective periods. Note 3 Stock-Based Compensation The Company has a Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan, which i s more fully described in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016, that provides for the grant to eligible employees, consultants and directors of stock options, restricted shares, and other stock-based awards. The amounts of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the periods presented are as follows: S tock-based compensation is recorded within the following line items of operating expenses: 7 The following table summarizes stoc k option activity during the three months ended October 2, 2016: As of October 2, 2016, the total future compensation cost related to non-vested options, not yet recognized in the statement of income, was $1.1 million and the weighted average period over which these awards are expected to be recognized was 2.7 years. The Company grants shares of Common Stock to its employees that are subject to restrictions on transfer and risk of forfeiture until fulfillment of applicable service conditions and, in certain cases, holding periods (Restricted Stock) . The following table summarizes the activity of non-vested restricted stock awards during the three months ended October 2, 2016: The fair value of non -vested shares is determined based on the closing stock price on the grant date. As of October 2, 2016, there was $6.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock-based compensation to be recognized over the weighted-average remaining period of 1.8 years. Note 4 Disposition of Colonial Gifts Limited During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company 's management committed to a plan to sell its iFlorist business in order to focus its internal resources and capital on integrating and achieving synergy savings with respect to its acquisition of Harry & David, which was completed on September 30, 2014. As a result, the Company determined that the iFlorist business (disposal group) met the held for sale criteria, as prescribed by FASB ASC 360-10-45-9, as of September 27, 2015. As such, the Company compared iFlorist's carrying amount ($3.4 million) to its fair value less cost to sell ($1.5 million), and recorded an impairment charge of $1.9 million during the period ended September 27, 2015. The Company recorded this impairment charge within "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. During October 2015, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of iFlorist to Euroflorist AB ("Euroflorist"), a pan-European floral and gifting company headquartered in Malmo, Sweden. As consideration for the assets sold, the Company received an investment in Euroflorist with a fair value on the date of sale of approximately $1.5 million. (The Company will account for this investment using the cost method as it does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence over Euroflorist.) Upon completion of the sale of iFlorist during the quarter ended December 27, 2015, the Company recorded an additional loss on sale of $0.2 million. 8 Note 5 Inventory The Company 's inventory, stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, includes purchased and manufactured finished goods for sale, packaging supplies, crops, raw material ingredients for manufactured products and associated manufacturing labor and is classified as follows: Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets The following table presents goodwill by segment and the related change in the net carrying amount: (1) The total carrying amount of goodwill for all periods in the table above is reflected net of $71.1 million of accumulated impairment charges, which were recorded in the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment during fiscal 2009. The Company 's other intangible assets consist of the following: Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Future estimated amortization expense is as follows: remainder of fiscal 2017 - $1.2million, fiscal 2018 - $1.3 million, fiscal 2019 - $0.7 million, fiscal 2020 - $0.6 million, fiscal 2021 - $1.0 million and thereafter - $2.6million. Note 7 Investments The Company has certain investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies. The Company accounts for these investments using the equity method if they provide the Company the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investee 's Board of Directors, are considered in determining whether the equity method is appropriate. The Company records equity method investments initially at cost, and adjusts the carrying amount to reflect the Company's share of the earnings or losses of the investee. 9 The Company 's equity method investments are comprised of a 32% interest in Flores Online, a Sao Paulo, Brazil based internet floral and gift retailer, that the Company made on May 31, 2012. The book value of this investment was $1.1 million as of October 2, 2016 and July 3, 2016 , and is included in the "Other assets" line item within the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The Company's equity in the net loss of Flores Online for the quarters ended October 2, 2016 and September 27, 2015 was less than $0.1 million. During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company determined that the fair value of its investment in Flores Online ($1.2 million) was below its carrying value ($2.9 million) and that this decline was other-than-temporary. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.7 million, which is included within the "Other (income) expense, net" line items in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the period ended September 27, 2015. Investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, where the Company does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments are originally recorded at cost, and are included within the "Other assets" line item within the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The aggregate carrying amount of the Company's cost method investments was $1.7 million (including a $1.5 million investment in Euroflorist see ) as of October 2, 2016 and July 3, 2016. The Company also holds certain trading securities associated with its Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan ("NQDC Plan"). These investments are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included within the "Other assets" line item in the condensed consolidated balance sheets (see below). Each reporting period, the Company uses available qualitative and quantitative information to evaluate its investments for impairment. When a decline in fair value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. Note 8 Debt The Company 's current and long-term debt consists of the following: (1) In order to finance the Harry &amp; David acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to applicable sublimits) and general corporate purposes. The Term Loan is payable in 20 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning in December 2014, with escalating principal payments at the rate of 10% in years one and two, 15% in years three and four, and 20% in year five, with the remaining balance of $42.75 million due upon maturity. Upon closing of the acquisition, the Company borrowed $136.7 million under the Revolver to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's and Harry & David's previous credit agreements, as well as to pay acquisition-related transaction costs. The 2014 Credit Facility requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the Company comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. The Company was in compliance with these covenants as of October 2, 2016. Outstanding amounts under the 2014 Credit Facility bear interest at the Company's option at either: (i) LIBOR, plus a spread of 175 to 250 basis points, as determined by the Company's leverage ratio, or (ii) ABR, plus a spread of 75 to 150 basis points. The 2014 Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Future principal payments under the term loan are as follows: $16.0 million remainder of 2017, $21.4 million 2018, $26.7 million 2019 and $49.9 million 2020. 10 Note 9 - Property, Plant and Equipment The Company 's property, plant and equipment consists of the following: Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. Although no trading market exists, the Company believes that the carrying amount of its debt approximates fair value due to its variable nature. The Company's investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies are carried at cost and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, when an event or circumstances indicate that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The Company's remaining financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value (see table below). The Company's non-financial assets, such as definite lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist, as required under the accounting standards. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability, in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under the guidance are described below: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 11 The following table presents by level, within the fair value hierarchy, financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: (1) The Company has established a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for certain members of senior management. Deferred compensation plan assets are invested in mutual funds held in a "rabbi trust" which is restricted for payment to participants of the NQDC Plan. Trading securities held in a rabbi trust are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in the "Other assets" line item, with the corresponding liability included in the "Other liabilities" line item in the consolidated balance sheets. Note 11 Income Taxes At the end of each interim reporting period, the Company estimates its effective income tax rate expected to be applicable for the full year. This estimate is used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis and may change in subsequent interim periods. The Company 's effective tax rate from operations for the three months ended October 2, 2016 was 35.4%, compared to 37.0% in the same period of the prior year. The effective rate for fiscal 2017 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, which were partially offset by various permanent differences and tax credits. The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, and other permanent differences, partially offset by tax credits. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state jurisdictions, and various foreign countries. The Company is currently being audited by the Internal Revenue Service for fiscal year 2014, however, fiscal years 2013 and 2015 remain subject to federal examination. Due to ongoing state examinations and non-conformity with the federal statute of limitations for assessment, certain states remain open from fiscal 2012 .The Company commenced operations in foreign jurisdictions in 2012. The Company's foreign income tax filings are open for examination by its respective foreign tax authorities, mainly Canada and the United Kingdom. The Company 's policy is to recognize interest and penalties accrued on any unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. At October 2, 2016 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.6 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million.The Company believes that $0.3 million of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. Note 12 Business Segments The Company 's management reviews the results of the Company's operations by the following three business segments: 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral, BloomNet Wire Service, and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets Segment performance is measured based on contribution margin, which includes only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As such, management 's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead (see (*) below), nor does it include depreciation and amortization, other (income) expense, net and income taxes, or stock-based compensation and certain acquisition/integration costs, both of which are included within corporate overhead. Assets and liabilities are reviewed at the consolidated level by management and not accounted for by segment. 12 (a) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above categories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation From time to time, the Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business: Edible Arrangements: On November 20, 2014, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut by Edible Arrangements LLC and Edible Arrangements International, LLC, alleging that the Company 's use of the terms "Fruit Bouquets," "Edible," "Bouquet," "Edible Fruit Arrangements," Edible Arrangements," and "DoFruit" and its use of a six petal pineapple slice design in connection with marketing and selling edible fruit arrangements constitutes trademark infringement, false designation of origin, dilution, and contributory infringement under the federal Lanham Act, 29 USC 1114 and 1125(a), common law unfair competition, and a violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act, Connecticut General Statutes 42-110b (a). The Complaint alleged Edible Arrangements has been damaged in the amount of $97.4 million. The Complaint requested a declaratory judgment in favor of Edible Arrangements, an injunction against the Company's use of the terms and design, an accounting and payment of the Company's profits from its sale of edible fruit arrangements, a trebling of the Company's profits from such sales or of any damages sustained by Edible Arrangements, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees. On November 24, 2014, the Complaint was amended to add a breach of contract claim for use of these terms and the design, based on a contract that had been entered by one of the Company's subsidiaries prior to its acquisition by the Company. On January 29, 2015, the Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to add one of the Company's subsidiaries and to claim its damages were $101.4 million. 13 The Company filed an Answer and a Counterclaim on February 27, 2015. The Answer asserted substantial defenses, including fair use by the Company of generic and descriptive terms, as expressly permitted under the Lanham Act, invalidity of Edible Arrangements ' trademark registrations on grounds of fraud and trademark misuse, lack of exclusive rights on the part of Edible Arrangements, functionality of the claimed design mark, acquiescence, estoppel, and Edible Arrangements' use of the claimed trademarks in violation of the antitrust laws. The Counterclaim sought a declaratory judgment of lack of infringement and invalidity of claimed marks, cancellation of Edible Arrangements' registrations due to its fraud and misuse, genericism, and lack of secondary meaning as to any terms deemed descriptive, and damages in an amount to be determined for violation of the antitrust provisions of the federal Sherman Act and the Connecticut Unfair Trade Practices Act. Following extensive discovery, the parties engaged in mediation and reached an agreement in principle to resolve all claims on June 30, 2016. The parties entered a Confidential Settlement Agreement on July 22, 2016, pursuant to which, among other things, the Company paid $1.5 million to Edible Arrangements and the Company agreed not to use "Edible", "Edible Arrangements" or "Do Fruit ' in its marketing, except that the Company may refer to "Edible Arrangements" to comment on or compare the Company's products to those of "Edible Arrangements". The Company maintains its rights to market its products as "Fruit Bouquets" and "Bouquets," and to the continued use of its branding of "Fruit Bouquets.com" and Fruit Bouquets by 1800Flowers.com. In addition, all claims and counterclaims in the case were dismissed with prejudice. The Company recorded the settlement paid to Edible Arrangements in the "General and administrative expense" line item in the consolidated statements of income for the year ended July 3, 2016. Note 14 . Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution Facility On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple Heights, Ohio warehouse and distribution facility. While the fire did not cause any injuries, the building was severely damaged, rendering it inoperable for the key calendar 2014 holiday season, and all Fannie May and Harry London confections in the facility were destroyed. As a result, the Company had limited supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products available in its retail stores as well as for its ecommerce an d wholesale channels during its fiscal 2015 holiday season. While the Company implemented contingency plans to increase production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products at its production facility in Canton, Ohio and to shift warehousing and distribution operations to alternate Company facilities, product availability was severely limited, impacting revenue and earnings during fiscal 2015, and lingering into fiscal 2016. The following table reflects the costs related to the fire and the insurance recovery and associated gain as of September 27, 2015: During the three months ended September 27, 2015, the Company and its insurance carrier reached final agreement regarding the Fannie May fire claim. The agreement, in the amount of $55.0 million, provided for: (i) recovery of raw materials and work-in-process at replacement cost, and finished goods at selling price, less costs to complete the sale and normal discounts and other charges, as well as (ii) other incremental fire-related costs. The cost of inventory lost in the fire was approximately $29.6 million, while other fire-related costs amounted to approximately $5.8 million, including incremental contracted lease and cold storage fees which will be incurred until the Company moves back into its leased facility once the landlord completes repairs in December 2015. The resulting gain of $19.6 million is included in "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the period ended September 27, 2015, as all the contingencies surrounding the payment have been resolved. Through September 27, 2015, the Company had received $30.0 million of the settlement from its insurance carrier, and received the remaining $25.0 million balance in October 2015. 14 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT 'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Forward Looking Statements This "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (MD&A) is intended to provide an understanding of our financial condition, change in financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and results of operations. The following MD&A discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this Form10-Q and in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed or referred to in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to any differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption "Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results" and under Part I, Item 1A, of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Risk Factors." Overview 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") is a leading provider of gourmet food and floral gifts for all occasions. For the past 40 years, 1-800-FLOWERS (1-800-356-9377 or www.1800flowers.com) has been helping deliver smiles for our customers with gifts for every occasion, including fresh flowers and the finest selection of plants, gift baskets, gourmet foods, confections, candles, balloons and plush stuffed animals. As always, our 100% Smile Guarantee backs every gift. The Company 's Celebrations suite of services including Celebrations Passport Free Shipping program, Celebrations Rewards and Celebrations RemindersSM, are all designed to engage with customers and deepen relationships as a one-stop destination for all celebratory and gifting occasions. In 2016, 1-800-Flowers.com was awarded a Silver Stevie "e-Commerce Customer Service" Award, recognizing the Company's innovative use of online technologies and social media to service the needs of customers. In addition, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. was recognized as one of Internet Retailer's Top 300 B2B e-commerce companies and was also recently named in Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 as one of the world's leading mobile commerce sites. The Company was included in Internet Retailer's 2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce companies. In 2015, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was named a winner of the "Best Companies to Work for in New York State" award by The New York Society for Human Resource Management (NYS-SHRM). The Company 's BloomNet international floral wire service (www.mybloomnet.net) provides a broad range of quality products and value-added services designed to help professional florists grow their businesses profitably. The 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. "Gift Shop" also includes gourmet gifts such as premium, gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items from Harry & David (1-877-322-1200 or www.harryanddavid.com), popcorn and specialty treats from The Popcorn Factory (1-800-541-2676 or www.thepopcornfactory.com); cookies and baked gifts from Cheryl's (1-800-443-8124 or www.cheryls.com); premium chocolates and confections from Fannie May (www.fanniemay.com and www.harrylondon.com); gift baskets and towers from 1-800- Baskets.com (www.1800baskets.com); premium English muffins and other breakfast treats from Wolferman's (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com); carved fresh fruit arrangements from FruitBouquets.com (www.fruitbouquets.com); and top quality steaks and chops from Stock Yards (www.stockyards.com ). On September 30, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Harry &amp; David Holdings, Inc. ("Harry &amp; David"), a leading multi-channel specialty retailer and producer of branded premium gift-quality fruit, gourmet food products and other gifts marketed under the Harry &amp; David, Wolferman 's and Cushman's brands. The transaction, at a purchase price of $142.5 million, included the Harry & David's brands and websites as well as its headquarters, manufacturing and distribution facilities and orchards in Medford, Oregon, a warehouse and distribution facility in Hebron, Ohio and 46 Harry & David retail stores located throughout the country. In order to finance the acquisition, on September 30, 2014, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders (the "2014 Credit Facility"), consisting of a $142.5 million five-year term loan (the "Term Loan") with a maturity date of September 30, 2019, and a co-terminus revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"), with a seasonally adjusted limit ranging from $100.0 to $200.0 million, which may be used for working capital (subject to the applicable sublimit) and general corporate purposes. Shares in 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, ticker symbol: FLWS. 15 Category Information The following table presents the net revenues, gross profit and category contribution margin from each of the Company 's business segments, as well as consolidated EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income (loss). (Due to certain one-time items, the following Non-GAAP reconciliation tables have been included within MD&A. In order to present comparable information, certain financial information for the three months ended September 27, 2015 is also being presented on a pro-forma basis.) 16 17 (a) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above categories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. (b) Performance is measured based on segment contribution margin or segment Adjusted EBITDA, reflecting only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As such, management 's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead, described above, depreciation and amortization, other income (net), nor does it include one-time charges or gains. Management utilizes EBITDA, and adjusted financial information, as a performance measurement tool because it considers such information a meaningful supplemental measure of its performance and believes it is frequently used by the investment community in the evaluation of companies with comparable market capitalization. The Company also uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information as one of the factors used to determine the total amount of bonuses available to be awarded to executive officers and other employees. The Company's credit agreement uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information to measure compliance with covenants such as interest coverage and debt incurrence. EBITDA and adjusted financial information is also used by the Company to evaluate and price potential acquisition candidates. EBITDA and adjusted financial information have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: (a) EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, the Company's working capital needs; (b) EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on the Company's debts; and (c) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such capital expenditures. Because of these limitations, EBITDA should only be used on a supplemental basis combined with GAAP results when evaluating the Company's performance. 18 Results of Operations Net Revenues Net revenues consist primarily of the selling price of the merchandise, service or outbound shipping charges, less discounts, returns and credits. Net revenues increased 6.3% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year as a result of revenue growth within the Gourmet Foods &amp; Gift Baskets and Consumer Floral segments, partially offset by a decline within the BloomNet Wire Service segment. Adjusting for the impact of the disposition of iFlorist in October 2015, pro-forma net revenues increased 6.8% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, in comparison to the same period of the prior year. E-commerce revenues (combined online and telephonic) increased by 2.3% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of growth within the Consumer Floral and Gourmet Foods & Gift Baskets segments. During the three months ended October 2, 2016, the Company fulfilled approximately 1,572,000 orders through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales), compared to approximately 1,545,000 during the same period of the prior year, while the average order value increased to $68.13 during the three months ended October 2, 2016 from $67.76 during the same period of the prior year. Other revenues are comprised of the Company 's BloomNet Wire Service segment, as well as the wholesale and retail channels of its 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segments. Other revenues increased by 14.4% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, attributable to a combination of timing of wholesale shipments and wholesale/retail comp store growth. This increase was partially offset by a timing related decline in BloomNet wholesale product volume. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment includes the operations of the 1-800-Flowers.com brand, which derives revenue from the sale of consumer floral products through its e-commerce sales channel s (telephonic and online sales), retail stores, and royalties from its franchise operations, as well as iFlorist, a UK based e-commerce retailer of floral products (through the date of its disposition in October 2015). Net revenues increased 3.1%, during the three months ended October 2, 2016, in comparison to the same period of the prior year, as a result of an increase in order volume for the Company's 1-800-Flowers.com brand. Adjusting for the impact of the disposition of iFlorist in October 2015, for the three months ended October 2, 2016, pro-forma net revenues for the 1800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment increased 4.2% in comparison to the same period of the prior year. The BloomNet Wire Service segment includes revenues from membership fees as well as other product and service offerings to florists. Net revenues decreased 2.7% during the three months ended October 2, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year primarily reflecting the timing of some product shipments to wholesale accounts which shifted from the first quarter into the second quarter. The Gourmet Food &amp; Gift Baskets segment includes the operations of Harry &amp; David, Wolferman 's, Stockyards, Cheryl's, Fannie May, Harry London, The Popcorn Factory and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac. Revenue is derived from the sale of gourmet fruits, cookies, baked gifts, premium chocolates and confections, gourmet popcorn, gift baskets, and prime steaks and chops through the Company's e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales) and company-owned and operated retail stores under the Harry & David, Cheryl's and Fannie May brand names, as well as wholesale operations. Net revenues increased 13.3% during the three months ended October 2, 2016 compared to the same period of the prior year. Approximately half of the revenue growth within the segment was attributable to the early shipment of holiday gift basket orders at the request of some of the Company's wholesale customers. Revenue growth for the period also benefited from double digit increases at the Company's Cheryl's and The Popcorn Factory brands as well as positive same store sales in its Fannie May business where initiatives to enhance the brand's performance have begun to take hold. 19 Gross Profit Gross profit consists of net revenues less cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid directly to florists), the cost of floral and non-floral merchandise sold from inventory or through third parties, and associated costs including inbound and outbound shipping charges. Additionally, cost of revenues include labor and facility costs related to direct-to-consumer and wholesale production operations. Gross profit increased 5.7% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the aforementioned revenue growth. Gross margin percentage decreased 30 basis points to 43.0% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, primarily due to the product mix shift associated with the aforementioned early shipment of gift basket orders to Gourmet Foods and Gift Baskets wholesale customers, in comparison to the same period of the prior year The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment gross profit increased by 6.0% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, in comparison to the same period of the prior year, while gross margin percentage increased 110 basis points to 40.5% reflecting the efficient use of promotional marketing programs as well as reductions in shipping costs. The BloomNet Wire Service segment gross profit during the three months ended October 2, 2016 was consistent with the same period of the prior year, as the revenue decline referred to above was offset by gross margin percentage improvement of 170 basis points to 56.3%, as a result of sales mix. The Gourmet Food &amp; Gift Baskets segment gross profit increased 8.0% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to the increase in revenue noted above. Gross profit margin of 41.2%, reflects the product mix associated with the aforementioned early shipment of gift basket orders to wholesale customers, resulting in a decrease of 200 basis points in comparison to the same period of the prior year. Marketing and Sales Expense Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search costs, retail store and fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues) and customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the Company 's departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising activities. Marketing and sales expense increased 4.9% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily due to increased marketing spending in preparation for the upcoming holiday season, as well as increases in service center and other labor costs. 20 Technology and Development Expense Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating expenses of the Company 's information technology group, costs associated with its websites, including hosting, design, content development and maintenance and support costs related to the Company's order entry, customer service, fulfillment and database systems. Technology and development expenses increased 1.9% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of increased license and maintenance costs related to system monitoring, security and website platforms. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists of payroll and other expenses in support of the Company 's executive, finance and accounting, legal, human resources and other administrative functions, as well as professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expense increased 9.8% during the three months ended October 2, 2016, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily as a result of increased labor and health insurance costs in fiscal 2017, partially offset by one-time integration costs incurred during the three months ended September 27, 2015. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense for the three months ended October 2, 2016 was consistent with the same period of the prior year. 21 Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs attributable to the Company 's credit facility (See for details regarding the 2014 Credit Facility), net of income earned on the Company's available cash balances. Interest expense, net decreased during the three months ended October 2, 2016 in comparison to the same period of the prior year, as a result of scheduled repayments of term debt. Other income, net Other income, net for the three months ended October 2, 2016 consists primarily of an increase in the value of assets within the Company 's Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, partially offset by a decrease in the Company's equity interest in Flores Online. Other income, net for the three months ended September 27, 2015 consists primarily of a $19.6 million gain on insurance recoveries related to the Fannie May warehouse fire, offset by a $1.9 million impairment of iFlorist assets held for sale (see ), a $1.7 million impairment of the Flores Online investment, and a decline in the value of Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan investments. Income Taxes The Company rec orded income tax benefit of $8.6 million and $3.2 million during the three months ended October 2, 2016, and September 27, 2015, respectively. The Company's effective tax rate during the three months ended October 2, 2016 was 35.4%, compared to 37.0% in the same period of the prior year. The effective rate for fiscal 2017 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, which were partially offset by various permanent differences and tax credits. The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, and other permanent differences, offset by tax credits. At October 2, 2016 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.6 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that $0.3 million of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows At October 2, 2016, the Company had working capital of $26.7 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $6.8 million, compared to working capital of $45.8 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $27.8 million, at July 3, 2016. Net cash used in operating activities of $134.8 million for the three months ended October 2, 2016, was primarily attributable to the Company 's net loss during the period, as well as seasonal changes in working capital, including increases in inventory, receivables and prepaid expenses related to the upcoming holiday season and timing of accounts payable and accrued expense payments, partially offset by non-cash charges for depreciation/amortization and stock based compensation. 22 Net cash used in investing activities of $4.7 million for the three months ended October 2, 2016, was primarily attributable to capital expenditures related to the Company's technology infrastructure, and Gourmet Foods &amp; Gift Baskets production equipment. Net cash provided by financing activities of $118.5 million for the three months ended October 2, 2016 was primarily from net revolving credit facility borrowings of $125.0 million required to fund working capital needs, partially offset by the acquisition of $3.0 million of treasury stock and $3.6mm of term debt repayment. The Company expects that all borrowings under its revolving credit facility will be repaid by the end of the fiscal second quarter. Credit Facility See in Item 1 for details regarding the 2014 Credit Facility. Despite the current challenging economic environment, the Company believes that cash flows from operations along with available borrowings from its 2014 Credit Facility will be a sufficient source of liquidity. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company 's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. As a result, the Company expects to generate significant cash from operations during its second quarter, and then utilize that cash for operating needs during its fiscal third and fourth quarters, after which time the Company expects to borrow against its Revolver to fund pre-holiday manufacturing and inventory purchases. Borrowings under the Revolver typically peak in November, at which time cash generated from operations during the Christmas holiday shopping season are expected to enable the Company to repay working capital borrowings prior to the end of December. Stock Repurchase Program The Company has a stock repurchase plan through which purchases can be made from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions, subject to general market conditions. The repurchase program is financed utilizing available cash. In June 2015, the Company 's Board of Directors authorized an increase of $25 million to its stock repurchase plan. As of October 2, 2016, $9.1 million remained authorized under the plan. On October 4, 2016 the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional increase to the stock repurchase plan, restoring the amount available for repurchase to $25 million. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business related to the Company 's contractual obligations as discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As disclosed in the Company 's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016, the discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventory, goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets and income taxes. There have been no significant changes to the assumptions and estimates related to the Company's critical accounting policies, since July 3, 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 23 In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service contract. The Company adopted this standard prospectively to arrangements entered into, or materially modified, beginning on July 4, 2016. This adoption did not have a material impact on the Company 's consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, "Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability, and not recorded as a separate asset. The Company adopted this standard effective July 4, 2016 and applied it retrospectively to all periods presented. The impact of the adoption of the new guidance was to reclassify $3.6 million of deferred financing costs previously included within "Other Assets" to "Long-term debt" in the consolidated balance sheets as of July 3, 2016. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, "Inventory (Topic 330)." The pronouncement was issued to simplify the measurement of inventory and changes the measurement from lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 is effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The adoption of ASU 2015-11 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. In November 2015 the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, "Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes," which will require entities to present deferred tax assets ("DTAs") and deferred tax liabilities ("DTLs") as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU simplifies the current guidance (ASC 740-10-45-4), which requires entities to separately present DTAs and DTLs as current and noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU is effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. However, the FASB allowed early adoption of the standard, and the Company adopted this ASU as of December 27, 2015, and has reclassified all prior periods to be consistent with the requirements outlined in the ASU. This adoption had no impact on the financial statements presented within this form 10-Q. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, &quot;Financial Instruments Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The pronouncement requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes, requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset, and eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost. These changes become effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)." Under this guidance, an entity is required to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending June 28, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016 the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows, including recognizing all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement rather than in additional paid-in capital. ASU No. 2016-09 is effective for the Company 's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 24 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU no. 2016-13, "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." ASU 2016-13 introduces a new forward-looking "expected loss" approach, to estimate credit losses on most financial assets and certain other instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require entities to incorporate considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the entity 's assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 4, 2021, and the guidance is to be applied using the modified-retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Forward Looking Information and Factors that May Affect Future Results Our disclosure and analysis in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent the Company 's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events and can generally be identified by the use of statements that include words such as "estimate," "project," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will," "goal," "target" or similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of the Company's control that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including: the Company 's ability: to achieve revenue and profitability; to leverage its operating platform and reduce operating expenses; to manage the increased seasonality of its business; to cost effectively acquire and retain customers; to effectively integrate and grow acquired companies, including the recent acquisition of Harry &amp; David; to reduce working capital requirements and capital expenditures; to compete against existing and new competitors; to manage expenses associated with sales and marketing and necessary general and administrative and technology investments; and to cost efficiently manage inventories; the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings in the normal course of business; and general consumer sentiment and economic conditions that may affect levels of discretionary customer purchases of the Company's products. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. 25 We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Forms 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016 listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historic results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers can find them in Part I, Item 1A, of that filing under the heading "Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995". We incorporate that section of that Form 10-K in this filing and investors should refer to it.ITEM 1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 1 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (In thousands, except for per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income ( In thousands) ( unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Note 1 Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and subsidiaries (the " Company") in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. They do not include all of the information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for the three and six month periods ended January 1, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016. The Company 's quarterly results may experience seasonal fluctuations. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. Additionally, due to the number of major floral gifting occasions, including Mother's Day, Valentine's Day and Administrative Professionals Week, revenues also rise during the Company's fiscal third and fourth quarters in comparison to its fiscal first quarter. In fiscal 2016, the Easter Holiday was on March 27th, and as a result, all revenue and EBITDA associated with this holiday was within the Company's fiscal third quarter. In fiscal 2017, Easter falls on April 16th, which will result in the shift of some revenue and EBITDA from the Company's third quarter to its fourth quarter. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanyin g notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, " Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, " Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability, and not recorded as a separate asset. The Company adopted this standard effective July 4, 2016 and applied it retrospectively to all periods presented. The impact of the adoption of the new guidance was to reclassify $3.6 million of deferred financing costs previously included within "Other Assets" to "Long-term debt" in the consolidated balance sheets as of July 3, 2016. 5 In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, " Inventory (Topic 330)." The pronouncement was issued to simplify the measurement of inventory and changes the measurement from lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The adoption of ASU 2015-11 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, &quot;Financial Instruments Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The pronouncement requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes, requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset, and eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost. These changes become effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 201 6, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)." Under this guidance, an entity is required to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 28, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016 the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The Company has elected to early adopt the amendments in ASU 2016-09, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. As a result, starting this quarter, stock-based compensation excess tax benefits are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they were previously recognized in equity. This change resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits against income tax expenses, rather than additional paid-in capital, of $0.8 million for the three and six months ended January 1, 2017. There wasnoimpact on earnings per share sinceapproximately 700,000 tax benefit shares for the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, previously associated with the APIC pool calculation, are no longer considered in the diluted share computation. Additionally, our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows now present excess tax benefits as an operating activity. This change has been applied prospectively in accordance with the ASU and prior periods have not been adjusted. Further, the Company has elected to account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. This change has been applied on a modified retrospective basis. The cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings was not material to the financial statements. In addition, this ASU allows entities to withhold an amount up to an employees' maximum individual statutory tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction, up from the minimum statutory requirement, without resulting in liability classification of the award. We adopted this change on a modified retrospective basis, with no impact to our consolidated financial statements. Finally, this ASU clarified that the cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity. This change does not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financials as it conforms with its current practice. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, " Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." ASU 2016-13 introduces a new forward-looking "expected loss" approach, to estimate credit losses on most financial assets and certain other instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require entities to incorporate considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the entity's assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 4, 2021, and the guidance is to be applied using the modified-retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Reclassifications Certain balances in the prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform to the presentation in the current fiscal year. See " Recent Accounting Pronouncements" above regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU No. 2015-03 and ASU No. 2015-17. 6 Note 2 Net IncomePer Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per common share: Note (1): The effect of options to purchase 0.0 and 0.1 million shares for the three and six months ended January 1, 2017 and 0.1 million shares for both the three and six months ended December 27, 2015, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of net income per share on a diluted basis as their effect is anti-dilutive. Note 3 Stock-Based Compensation The Company has a Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan, which is more fully described in Note 12 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in the Company 's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016, that provides for the grant to eligible employees, consultants and directors of stock options, restricted shares, and other stock-based awards. The amounts of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the periods presented are as follows: Stock-based compensation is recorded within the following line items of operating expenses: 7 The following table summarizes stock option activity during the six months ended January 1, 2017: As of January 1, 2017, the total future compensation cost related to non-vested options, not yet recognized in the statement of income, was $1.1 million and the weighted average period over which these awards are expected to be recognized was 2.4years. The Company grants shares of Common Stock to its employees that are subject to r estrictions on transfer and risk of forfeiture until fulfillment of applicable service conditions and, in certain cases, holding periods (Restricted Stock). The following table summarizes the activity of non-vested restricted stock awards during the six months ended January 1, 2017: The fair value of non-vested shares is determined based on the closing stock price on the grant date. As of January 1, 2017, there was $8.3million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock-based compensation to be recognized over the weighted-average remaining period of 2.2 years. Note 4 Disposition of Colonial Gifts Limited ("iFlorist") During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company 's management committed to a plan to sell its iFlorist business in order to focus its internal resources and capital on integrating and achieving synergy savings with respect to its acquisition of Harry & David, which was completed on September 30, 2014. As a result, the Company determined that the iFlorist business (disposal group) met the held for sale criteria, as prescribed by FASB ASC 360-10-45-9, as of September 27, 2015. As such, the Company compared iFlorist's carrying amount ($3.4 million) to its fair value less cost to sell ($1.5 million), and recorded an impairment charge of $1.9 million during the period ended September 27, 2015. The Company recorded this impairment charge within "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. During October 2015, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of iFlorist to Euroflorist AB ("Euroflorist"), a pan-European floral and gifting company headquartered in Malmo, Sweden. As consideration for the assets sold, the Company received an investment in Euroflorist with a fair value on the date of sale of approximately $1.5 million. (The Company will account for this investment using the cost method as it does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence over Euroflorist.) Upon completion of the sale of iFlorist during the quarter ended December 27, 2015, the Company recorded an additional loss on sale of $0.2 million. 8 Note 5 Inventory The Company 's inventory, stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, includes purchased and manufactured finished goods for sale, packaging supplies, crops, raw material ingredients for manufactured products and associated manufacturing labor and is classified as follows: Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets The following table presents goodwill by segment and the related change in the net carrying amount: (1) The total carrying amount of goodwill for all periods in the table above is reflected net of $71.1 million of accumulated impairment charges, which were recorded in the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment during fiscal 2009. The Company 's other intangible assets consist of the following: Intangible assets are reviewed for impairmen t whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Future estimated amortization expense is as follows: remainder of fiscal 2017 - $0.8million, fiscal 2018 - $1.3 million, fiscal 2019 - $0.7 million, fiscal 2020 - $0.6 million, fiscal 2021 - $1.0 million and thereafter - $2.7million. 9 Note 7 Investments The Company has certain investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies. The Company accounts for these investments using the equity method if they provide the Company the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investee's Board of Directors, are considered in determining whether the equity method is appropriate. The Company records equity method investments initially at cost, and adjusts the carrying amount to reflect the Company's share of the earnings or losses of the investee. The Company 's equity method investments are comprised of a 29.0% interest in Flores Online, a Sao Paulo, Brazil based internet floral and gift retailer, that the Company made on May 31, 2012. The book value of this investment was $1.1 million as of January 1, 2017 and July 3, 2016, and is included in the "Other assets" line item within the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The Company's equity in the net loss of Flores Online for the three and six months ended January 1, 2017and December 27, 2015 was less than $0.1 million. During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company determined that the fair value of its investment in Flores Online ($1.2 million) was below its carrying value ($2.9 million) and that this decline was other-than-temporary. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.7 million, which is included within the "Other (income) expense, net" line items in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the period ended December 27, 2015. Investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, where the Company does not possess the ability to exercise significa nt influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments are originally recorded at cost, and are included within the "Other assets" line item within the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The aggregate carrying amount of the Company's cost method investments was $1.7 million (including a $1.5 million investment in Euroflorist see above) as of January 1, 2017and July 3, 2016. The Company also holds certain trading securities associated with its Non-Qualified Deferred C ompensation Plan ("NQDC Plan"). These investments are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included within the "Other assets" line item in the condensed consolidated balance sheets (see below). Each reporting period, the Company uses available qualitative and quantitative information to evaluate its investments for impairment. When a decline in fair value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. Note 8 Debt The Company 's current and long-term debt consists of the following: (1) On December 23, 2016 , the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "2016 Amended Credit Agreement") with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders. The 2016 Amended Credit Agreement amends and restates the Company 's existing credit agreement, dated as of September 30, 2014(the "2014 Agreement") to, among other things, extend the maturity date of the $115.0 million outstanding term loan (&quot;Term Loan&quot;) and the revolving credit facility (the &quot;Revolver&quot;) by approximately two years to December 23, 2021. The Term Loan is payable in 19 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning on April 2, 2017, with escalating principal payments, at the rate of 5% in year one, 7.5% in year two, 10% in year three, 12.5% in year four, and 15% in year five, with the remaining balance of $61.8 million due upon maturity. The Revolver, in the aggregate amount of $200 million, subject to seasonal reduction to an aggregate amount of $100 million for the period from January 1 through August 1, may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, subject to certain restrictions. For each borrowing under the 2016 Amended Credit Agreement, the Company may elect that such borrowing bear interest at an annual rate equal to either (1) a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.75% to 1.5%, based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio, where the base rate is the highest of (a) the prime rate, (b)the highest of thefederal funds rate and the overnight bank funding rate as published by the New York Fed,plus 0.5% and (c) an adjustedLIBO rate,plus 1% or (2)an adjustedLIBO rateplus an applicable margin varying from 1.75% to 2.5%,based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The 2016 Amended Credit Agreement requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the Company comply with certain financial covenants and affirmative covenants as well as certain negative covenants, that subject to certain exceptions, limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make certain investmetns and make certain restricted payments. The Company was in compliance with these covenants as of January 1, 2017. The 2016 Amended Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Future principal payments under the term loan are as fo llows: $2.9million remainder of fiscal 2017, $7.2million fiscal 2018, $10.1million fiscal 2019, $12.9million fiscal 2020, $15.8 million - fiscal 2021, and $66.1 million thereafter. 10 Note 9 - Property, Plant and Equipment The Company 's property, plant and equipment consists of the following: Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. Although no trading market exists, the Company believes that the carrying amount of its debt approximates fair value due to its variable nature. The Company's investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies are carried at cost and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, when an event or circumstances indicate that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The Company's remaining financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value (see table below). The Company's non-financial assets, such as definite lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist, as required under the accounting standards. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability, in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under the guidance are described below: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The following table presents by level, within the fair value hierarchy, financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: (1) The Company has established a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for certain members of senior management. Deferred compensation plan assets are invested in mutual funds held in a " rabbi trust" which is restricted for payment to participants of the NQDC Plan. Trading securities held in a rabbi trust are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in the "Other assets" line item, with the corresponding liability included in the "Other liabilities" line item in the consolidated balance sheets. 11 Note 11 Income Taxes At the end of each interim reporting period, the Company estimates its effective income tax rate expected to be applicable for the full year. This estimate is used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis and may change in subsequent interim periods. The Company's effective tax rate from operations for the three and six months ended January 1, 2017was 33.3% and 32.6% respectively, compared to 33.2% and 32.8% in the same periods of the prior year. The effective rates for fiscal 2017 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to state income taxes, which were more than offset by various permanent differences and tax credits, including excess tax benefits on stock based compensation as a result of the Company's early adoption of ASU 2016-09. (see above). The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, and other permanent differences, which were more than offset by tax credits, including, but not limited to, research and development credits. . The Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state jurisdictions, and various foreign countries. The Company concluded its U.S. federal examination for fiscal 2014, however, fiscal years 2013 and 2015 remain subject to U.S. federal examination. Due to ongoing state examinations and non-conformity with the U.S. federal statute of limitations for assessment, certain states remain open from fiscal 2012. The Company commenced operations in foreign jurisdictions in 2012. The Company's foreign income tax filings are open for examination by its respective foreign tax authorities, mainly Canada and the United Kingdom. The Company 's policy is to recognize interest and penalties accrued on any unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. At January 1, 2017 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.6 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that$0.3 million of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. Note 12 Business Segments The Company 's management reviews the results of the Company's operations by the following three business segments: 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral, BloomNet Wire Service, and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets Segment performance is measured based on contribution margin, which includes only the direct controllable revenue and operating expe nses of the segments. As such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead (see (*) below), nor does it include depreciation and amortization, other (income) expense, net and income taxes, or stock-based compensation and certain acquisition/integration costs, both of which are included within corporate overhead. Assets and liabilities are reviewed at the consolidated level by management and not accounted for by segment. (a) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above categories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. 12 Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation There are various claims, lawsuits, and pending actions against the Company and its subsidiaries incident to the operations of its businesses. It is the opinion of management, after consultation with counsel, that the ultimate resolution of such claims, lawsuits and pending actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Note 14. Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution Facility On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple Heights, Ohio warehouse and distribution facility. While the fire did not cause any injuries, the building was severely damaged, rendering it inoperable for the key calendar 2014 holiday season, and all Fannie May and Harry London confections in the facility were destroyed. As a result, the Company had limited supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products available in its retail stores as well as for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during its fiscal 2015 holiday season. While the Company implemented contingency plans to increase production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products at its production facility in Canton, Ohio and to shift warehousing and distribution operations to alternate Company facilities, product availability was severely limited, impacting revenue and earnings during fiscal 2015, and lingering into fiscal 2016. The following table reflects the costs related to the fire andthe insurance recovery and associated gain as of September 27, 2015: During the three months ended September 27, 2015, the Company and its insurance carrier reached final agreement, and during the three months ended December 27, 2015, the Company received all remaining proceeds from its Fannie May fire claim . The agreement, in the amount of $55.0 million, provided for: (i) recovery of raw materials and work-in-process at replacement cost, and finished goods at selling price, less costs to complete the sale and normal discounts and other charges, as well as (ii) other incremental fire-related costs. The cost of inventory lost in the fire was approximately $29.6 million, while other fire-related costs amounted to approximately $5.8 million, including incremental contracted lease and cold storage fees which was incurred until the Company moved back into its leased facility. The resulting gain of $19.6 million is included in "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the period ended December 27, 2015, as all the contingencies surrounding the payment had been resolved. 13 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT 'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Forward Looking Statements This "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (MD&A) is intended to provide an understanding of our financial condition, change in financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and results of operations. The following MD&A discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this Form10-Q and in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed or referred to in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to any differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption "Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results" and under Part I, Item 1A, of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Risk Factors." Overview 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the " Company") is a leading provider of gourmet food and floral gifts for all occasions. For the past 40 years, 1-800-FLOWERS (1-800-356-9377 or www.1800flowers.com) has been helping deliver smiles for our customers with gifts for every occasion, including fresh flowers and the finest selection of plants, gift baskets, gourmet foods, confections, candles, balloons and plush stuffed animals. As always, our 100% Smile Guarantee backs every gift. The Company's Celebrations suite of services including Celebrations Passport Free Shipping program, Celebrations Rewards and Celebrations RemindersSM, are all designed to engage with customers and deepen relationships as a one-stop destination for all celebratory and gifting occasions. In 2016, 1-800-Flowers.com was awarded a Silver Stevie "e-Commerce Customer Service" Award, recognizing the Company's innovative use of online technologies and social media to service the needs of customers. In addition, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. was recognized as one of Internet Retailer's Top 300 B2B e-commerce companies and was also recently named in Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 as one of the world's leading mobile commerce sites. The Company was included in Internet Retailer's 2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce companies. In 2015, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was named a winner of the "Best Companies to Work for in New York State" award by The New York Society for Human Resource Management (NYS-SHRM). The Company 's BloomNet international floral wire service (www.mybloomnet.net) provides a broad range of quality products and value-added services designed to help professional florists grow their businesses profitably. The 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. "Gift Shop" also includes gourmet gifts such as premium, gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items from Harry & David (1-877-322-1200 or www.harryanddavid.com), popcorn and specialty treats from The Popcorn Factory (1-800-541-2676 or www.thepopcornfactory.com); cookies and baked gifts from Cheryl's (1-800-443-8124 or www.cheryls.com); premium chocolates and confections from Fannie May (www.fanniemay.com and www.harrylondon.com); gift baskets and towers from 1-800- Baskets.com (www.1800baskets.com); premium English muffins and other breakfast treats from Wolferman's (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com); carved fresh fruit arrangements from FruitBouquets.com (www.fruitbouquets.com); and top quality steaks and chops from Stock Yards (www.stockyards.com). Shares in 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, ticker symbol: FLWS. 14 Category Information The following table presents the net revenues, gross profit and category contribution margin from each of the Company 's business segments, as well as consolidated EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income. (Due to certain one-time items, the following Non-GAAP reconciliation tables have been included within MD&A. In order to present comparable information, certain financial information for the sixmonths ended December 27, 2015,is also being presented on a pro-forma basis.) 15 16 Reconciliation of GAAP net income to Adjusted income attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc.: 17 Reconciliation of GAAP income attributable to 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA, excluding stock-based compensation (b): (a) Corporate expenses consist of the Company 's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above categories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. (b) Performance is me asured based on segment contribution margin or segment Adjusted EBITDA, reflecting only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead, described above, depreciation and amortization, other income (net), nor does it include one-time charges or gains. Management utilizes EBITDA, and adjusted financial information, as a performance measurement tool because it considers such information a meaningful supplemental measure of its performance and believes it is frequently used by the investment community in the evaluation of companies with comparable market capitalization. The Company also uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information as one of the factors used to determine the total amount of bonuses available to be awarded to executive officers and other employees. The Company's credit agreement uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information to measure compliance with covenants such as interest coverage and debt incurrence. EBITDA and adjusted financial information is also used by the Company to evaluate and price potential acquisition candidates. EBITDA and adjusted financial information have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: (a) EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, the Company's working capital needs; (b) EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on the Company's debts; and (c) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such capital expenditures. Because of these limitations, EBITDA should only be used on a supplemental basis combined with GAAP results when evaluating the Company's performance. 18 Results of Operations Net Revenues Net revenues consist primarily of the selling price of the merchandise, service or outbound shipping charges, less discounts, returns and credits. Net revenues increased 1.1% and 2.3% during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same periods of the prior year,reflecting growth across all three of the Company's segments, particularly within 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral and BloomNet. While theGourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment recorded revenue growth during the quarter, and on a year-to-date basis, even while scaling back its seasonal store counts, total revenue growth in this segment, and for the Company as a whole, was muted by slower growthwithin the Harry & David brand, which accounts for approximately halfof the Company's total revenues during the quarter. E-commerce revenues (combined online and telephonic) increased by 2.0% and 2.1%, during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior year, as a result of growth within the Consumer Floral and Gourmet Foods & Gift Baskets segments, asdiscussed in further detail below. During the three months ended January 1, 2017, the Company fulfilled approximately 5,263,000 orders through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales) at an average value of $79.92, compared to approximately 5,304,000 orders at an average order value of $77.73 during the same period of the prior year. During the six months ended January 1, 2017, the Company fulfilled approximately 6,780,000 orders through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales) at an average order value of $77.83, compared to approximately 6,786,000 orders at an average value of $76.18 during the same period of the prior year. Other revenues are comprised of the Company 's BloomNet Wire Service segment, as well as the wholesale and retail channels of its 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segments. Other revenues decreased by 1.6% during the three months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of lower sales within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, attributable to the timing of orders for certain customers who requested delivery of product in the Company's first quarter, as well asa reduction in Harry & David seasonalstore locations in comparison to the prior year,partially offset by an increases in the BloomNet segment revenues driven by improvements in membership fees and ancillary services. Other revenues increased by 2.8% during the six months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to wholesale growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment and membership and ancillary service increases within the Bloomnet segment. The 1 -800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment includes the operations of the 1-800-Flowers.com brand, which derives revenue from the sale of consumer floral products through its e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales), retail stores, and royalties from its franchise operations, as well as iFlorist, a UK based e-commerce retailer of floral products (through the date of its disposition in October 2015).Net revenues increased 3.1%, during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, primarily as a result ofimproved Holiday volume due to enhanced merchandise assortments, and efforts to increase its "everyday"business, including birthdays, anniversaries, and "just because". Adjusting for the dispostion of iFlorist in October 2015,for the six months ended January 1, 2017, pro-forma net revenues for the 1-800-Flowers Consumer Floral segment increased 3.7% in comparison to the same period of the prior year. The BloomNet Wire Service segment includes revenues from membership fees as well as other product and service offerings to florists. Ne t revenues increased 4.2% and 0.6%during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, respectively,compared to the same periods of the prior year, primarily due to increased order volumes and an expanded offering of digital marketing and advertising programs, partially offset by a decline in wholesale products, due to unfavorable Christmas holiday volume. The Gourmet Food &amp; Gift Baskets segment includes the operations of Harry &amp; David, Wolferman 's, Stockyards, Cheryl's, Fannie May, Harry London, The Popcorn Factory and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac. Revenue is derived from the sale of gourmet fruits, cookies, baked gifts, premium chocolates and confections, gourmet popcorn, gift baskets, and prime steaks and chops through the Company's e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales) and company-owned and operated retail stores under the Harry & David, Cheryl's and Fannie May brand names, as well as wholesale operations. Net revenues increased 0.6% during the three months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to e-commerce growth in the Company 's Harry & David, Cheryl's, 1-800-Baskets and The Popcorn Factory brands,partially offset by lower Harry &amp; David retail store sales, reflecting a combination of a planned reduction in seasonal store count and declining customer traffic, as well as the timing of certain wholesale orders, which at customer request, were delivered in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. During the six months ended January 1, 2017, n et revenues increased 2.2%, compared to the same period of the prior year,reflecting the aforementioned e-commerce growth across all brands, as well as higher wholesale volumes within the Fannie May and Harry & David brands, partially offset by lower retail volume primarily due to the reduction in seasonal store count. 19 Gross Profit Gross profit consists of net revenues less cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid directly to florists), the cost of floral and non-floral merchan dise sold from inventory or through third parties, and associated costs including inbound and outbound shipping charges. Additionally, cost of revenues include labor and facility costs related to direct-to-consumer and wholesale production operations. Gr oss profit increased 1.7% during the three months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the aforementioned revenue growth and a 20 basis point improvementin gross margin percentage, to 46.3%, due to logistical and operational improvements within the Consumer Floral and Bloomnet segments. Gross margin percentage within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment of 46.7% was consistent with theprior year. Gr oss profit increased 2.6% during the six months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the aforementioned revenue growth and a 20 basis point improvement in gross margin percentage,to 45.6%, due to logistical and operational improvements within the Consumer Floral and Bloomnet segments, partially offset by a decline in gross margin percentage withinthe Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment. The 1-800-Flowers .com Consumer Floral segment gross profit increased by 5.4% and 5.7%,respectively, during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, while gross margin percentage increased 90and 100 basis points to 41.2% and 40.9%, respectively,reflecting improved product sourcing andreductions in shipping costs due to continued improvements in ground transportation coverage. The BloomNet Wire Service segment gross profit during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017 increased by 9.9% and 4.9%, respectively, in comparison with the same periods of the prior year, as the revenue increase referred to above was supplemented by gross margin percentage improvements of 300and 40 basis points, to 60.1% and 58.1%, respectively, as a result of product mix. The Gourmet Food &amp; Gift Baskets segment gross profit increased 0.6% during the three months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to the increase in revenue noted above. Gross profit margin of 46.7% during the three months ended January 1, 2017 was consistent with the same period of the prior year. Gross profit increased 1.4% during the six months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to the increase in revenues noted above, partially offsetby a 30 basis point decrease in gross margin percentage, reflecting product and channel mix, as well as increased promotions during the competitive holiday selling season. Marketing and Sales Expense Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search costs, retail store and fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues) and customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the Company's departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising activities. Marketing and sales expense increased 0.3% and 1.7%, respectively, during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same periods of the prior year, primarily due to increased advertising and marketing spending during theholiday season, partially offset by a decrease in laborcosts due to a reduction inperformance based bonuses, as well asreductions inretail storelabor and facility costs associated with the year-over-year decrease in temporary &quot;pop-up&quot; retail store locations during the holiday period. 20 Technology and Development Expense Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating expenses of the Company 's information technology group, costs associated with its websites, including hosting, design, content development and maintenance and support costs related to the Company's order entry, customer service, fulfillment and database systems. Technology and development expenses during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017 were relatively consistent with the same periods of the prior year as increased license and maintenance costs related to system monitoring, security and website platforms were offset by reductions in labor costs. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists of payroll and other expenses in support of the Company 's executive, finance and accounting, legal, human resources and other administrative functions, as well as professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expense increased 7.5% and 8.6%, respectively, during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, compared to the same periods of the prior year, primarily as a result of increased health insurance costs, partially offset b y lower labor costs as a result of decreases in performance based bonuses, as well as one-time integration costs incurred during the three months ended September 27, 2015. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense for the three and six months ended January 1, 2017 increased 4.6% and 2.6%, respectively, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, as a result of recent increases in capital expenditures, primarily in support of the Company 's technology infrastructure. 21 Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs attributable to the Company 's credit facility (see above for details), net of income earned on the Company's available cash balances. Interest expense, net during the three months ended January 1, 2017 was consistent withthe same period of the prior year, as reductions in interest expense due to scheduled Term Loan re-paymentswas offset bya $0.3 million write-off of deferred financing costs as a result of amending theCompany's 2014 credit facility. I nterest expense, net decreased 11.1% during the six months ended January 1, 2017 in comparison to the same period of the prior year, due to the reduction in the outstanding Term Debt due to principal payments during the year, partially offset by the aforementioned write-off of deferred financing costs. Other (income) expense, net Other (income) expense, net for the three months ended January 1, 2017 primarily consists of income from the increase in the value of the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan investments, offset by a decrease in the Company 's equity interest in Flores Online. Other (income) expense, net for the three months ended December 27, 2015 consists primarily of a $0.2 million loss on the sale of iFlorist (see above). Other (income) expense, net for the six months ended January 1, 2017 consists primarily of income from the increase in the value of the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan investments, partially offset by a decrease in the Company 's equity interest in Flores Online. Other (income) expense, net for the six months ended September 27, 2015 consists primarily of a $19.6 million gain on insurance recoveries related to the Fannie May warehouse fire, offset by a $2.1 million impairment related to the sale of iFlorist (see above), a $1.7 million impairment of the Flores Online investment (see above), and a decline in the value of Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan investments. Income Taxes The Company recorded income tax expense of $31.5 million and $22.8 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017 and income tax expense of $30.5 million and $27.3 million, respectively during the three and six months ended December 27, 2015. The Company 's effective tax rate from operations for the three months and six months ended January 1, 2017was 33.3% and 32.6% respectively, compared to 33.2% and 32.8% in the same periods of the prior year. The effective rates for fiscal 2017 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to state income taxes, which were more than offset by various permanent differences and tax credits, including excess tax benefits on stock based compensation as a result of the Company's early adoption of ASU 2016-09 (see above). The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, and other permanent differences, which were more than offset by tax credits, including, but not limited to, research and development credits. At January 1, 2017 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.6 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that $0.3 million of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows At January 1, 2017, the Company had working capital of $102.5 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $114.0million, compared to working capital of $45.8 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $27.8 million, at July 3, 2016. Net cash provided by operating activities of $110.0 million for the six months ended January 1, 2017, was primarily attributable to the Company's net income during the period, adjusted by non-cash charges for depreciation/amortization and stock based compensation, as well as seasonal changes in working capital, including holiday related inceases in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and reductionsin inventory, partially offset by increases in receivables related to holiday season sales. Net cash used in investing activities of $13.3 million for the six months ended January 1, 2017, was primarily attributable to capital expenditures related to the Company's technology infrastructure, and Gourmet Foods & Gift Baskets production equipment. Net cash used in financing activities of $10.6 million for the six months ended January 1, 2017 was primarily due tonet Term Loan repaymentsof $2.6 million, the acquisition of $6.8million of treasury stock and $1.5mm ofadditional debt issuance costs relatedto the 2016 Amended Credit Agreement (see above for details). All borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility wererepaid by the end of the fiscal second quarter. 22 Credit Facility See in Item 1 for details regarding the 2016 Amended Credit Agreement. Despite the current challenging economic environment, the Company believes that cash flows from operations along with available borrowings from its 2016 Amended Credit Agreement will be a sufficient source of liquidity. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. As a result, the Company expects to generate significant cash from operations during its second quarter, and then utilize that cash for operating needs during its fiscal third and fourth quarters, after which time the Company expects to borrow against its Revolver to fund pre-holiday manufacturing and inventory purchases during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Borrowings under the Revolver typically peak in November, at which time cash generated from operations during the Christmas holiday shopping season are expected to enable the Company to repay working capital borrowings prior to the end of December. Stock Repurchase Program The Company has a stock repurchase plan through which purchases can be made from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions, subject to general market conditions. The repurchase pro gram is financed utilizing available cash. In October 2016, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an increase to its stock repurchase plan of up to $25 million. As of January 1, 2017, $21.1million remained authorized under the plan. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business related to the Company's contractual obligations as discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As disclosed in the Company 's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016, the discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventory, goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets and income taxes. There have been no significant changes to the assumptions and estimates related to the Company's critical accounting policies, since July 3, 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, " Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (" FASB") issued ASU No. 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement." This standard provides guidance to help entities determine whether a cloud computing arrangement contains a software license that should be accounted for as internal-use software or as a service contract. The Company adopted this standard prospectively to arrangements entered into, or materially modified, beginning on July 4, 2016. This adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, " Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability, and not recorded as a separate asset. The Company adopted this standard effective July 4, 2016 and applied it retrospectively to all periods presented. The impact of the adoption of the new guidance was to reclassify $3.6 million of deferred financing costs previously included within "Other Assets" to "Long-term debt" in the consolidated balance sheets as of July 3, 2016. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, " Inventory (Topic 330)." The pronouncement was issued to simplify the measurement of inventory and changes the measurement from lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The adoption of ASU 2015-11 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. In November 2015 the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, " Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes," which will require entities to present deferred tax assets ("DTAs") and deferred tax liabilities ("DTLs") as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU simplifies the current guidance (ASC 740-10-45-4), which requires entities to separately present DTAs and DTLs as current and noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods. However, the FASB allowed early adoption of the standard, and the Company adopted this ASU as of December 27, 2015, and has reclassified all prior periods to be consistent with the requirements outlined in the ASU. This adoption had no impact on the financial statements presented within this form 10-Q. 23 In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, &quot;Financial Instruments Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The pronouncement requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes, requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset, and eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost. These changes become effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 201 6, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)." Under this guidance, an entity is required to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 28, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016 the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. We have elected to early adopt the amendments in ASU 2016-09, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. As a result, starting this quarter, stock-based compensation excess tax benefits are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they were previously recognized in equity. This change resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits against income tax expenses, rather than additional paid-in capital, of $0.8 million for the three and six months ended January 1, 2017. There wasnoimpact on earnings per share sinceapproximately 700,000 tax benefit shares for the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, previously associated with the APIC pool calculation, are no longer considered in the diluted share computation . Additionally, our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows now present excess tax benefits as an operating activity. This change has been applied prospectively in accordance with the ASU and prior periods have not been adjusted. Further, we have elected to account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. This change has been applied on a modified retrospective basis, nevertheless, the cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings was not material to the financial statements. In addition, this ASU increased the threshold to qualify for equity classification up to the maximum statutory tax rates in the applicable jurisdiction, up from the minimum statutory requirement. We adopted this change on a modified retrospective basis, with no impact to our consolidated financial statements. Finally, this ASU clarified that the cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity, whereas no such guidance previously existent. This change does not have an impact to our consolidated financials as it conforms with our current policies. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, " Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." ASU 2016-13 introduces a new forward-looking "expected loss" approach, to estimate credit losses on most financial assets and certain other instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require entities to incorporate considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the entity's assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 4, 2021, and the guidance is to be applied using the modified-retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Forward Looking Information and Factors that May Affe ct Future Results Our disclosure and analysis in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent the Company 's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events and can generally be identified by the use of statements that include words such as "estimate," "project," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will," "goal," "target" or similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of the Company's control that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including: the Company 's ability: to achieve revenue and profitability; to leverage its operating platform and reduce operating expenses; to manage the increased seasonality of its business; to cost effectively acquire and retain customers; to effectively integrate and grow acquired companies, including the recent acquisition of Harry &amp; David; to reduce working capital requirements and capital expenditures; to compete against existing and new competitors; to manage expenses associated with sales and marketing and necessary general and administrative and technology investments; and to cost efficiently manage inventories; the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings in the normal course of business; and general consumer sentiment and economic conditions that may affect levels of discretionary customer purchases of the Company 's products. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or un known risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. 24 We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects i n our Forms 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016 listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historic results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers can find them in Part I, Item 1A, of that filing under the heading "Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995". We incorporate that section of that Form 10-K in this filing and investors should refer to it. ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risk from the effect of interest rate changes. Interest Rate Risk The Company 's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Company's investment of available cash balances and its long-term debt. The Company generally invests its cash and cash equivalents in investment grade corporate and U.S. government securities. Due to the currently low rates of return the Company is receiving on its cash equivalents, the potential for a significant decrease in short-term interest rates is low and, therefore, a further decrease would not have a material impact on the Company's interest income. Borrowings under the Company's credit facility bear interest at a variable rate, plus an applicable margin, and therefore expose the Company to market risk for changes in interest rates. The effect of a 50 basis point increase in current interest rates on the Company's interest expense would be approximately $0.2 million and $0.4 million during the three and six months ended January 1, 2017, respectively.ITEM 1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 1 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands, except for per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) Note 1 Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and subsidiaries (the " Company") in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. They do not include all of the information and notes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for the three and nine month periods ended April 2, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending July 2, 2017. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016. The Company 's quarterly results may experience seasonal fluctuations. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. Additionally, due to the number of major floral gifting occasions, including Mother's Day, Valentine's Day and Administrative Professionals Week, revenues also rise during the Company's fiscal third and fourth quarters in comparison to its fiscal first quarter. In fiscal 2016, the Easter Holiday was on March 27th, and as a result, all revenue and EBITDA associated with this holiday was within the Company's fiscal third quarter. In fiscal 2017, Easter falls on April 16th, which will result in the shift ofassociatedrevenue and EBITDA from the Company's third quarter to its fourth quarter. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanyin g notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, " Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, " Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability, and not recorded as a separate asset. The Company adopted this standard effective July 4, 2016 and applied it retrospectively to all periods presented. The impact of the adoption of the new guidance was to reclassify $3.6 million of deferred financing costs previously included within "Other Assets" to "Long-term debt" in the consolidated balance sheets as of July 3, 2016. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, " Inventory (Topic 330)." The pronouncement was issued to simplify the measurement of inventory and changes the measurement from lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The adoption of ASU 2015-11 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, &quot;Financial Instruments Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The pronouncement requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes, requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset, and eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost. These changes become effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 201 6, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)." Under this guidance, an entity is required to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 28, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The Company has elected to early adopt the amendments in ASU 2016-09, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. As a result, stock-based compensation excess tax benefits are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they were previously recognized in equity. This change resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits against income tax expenses, rather than additional paid-in capital, of $0.1 million and $0.9 million for the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017. There wasnoimpact on earnings per share sinceapproximately 700,000 tax benefit shares for thenine months ended April 2, 2017, previously associated with the APIC pool calculation, are no longer considered in the diluted share computation. Additionally, our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows now present excess tax benefits as an operating activity. This change has been applied prospectively in accordance with the ASU and prior periods have not been adjusted. Further, the Company has elected to account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. The cumulative effect of this change, which was recorded as compensation expensein fiscal 2017, was not material to the financial statements. In addition, this ASU allows entities to withhold an amount up to an employees' maximum individual statutory tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction, up from the minimum statutory requirement, without resulting in liability classification of the award. We adopted this change on a modified retrospective basis, with no impact to our consolidated financial statements. Finally, this ASU clarified that the cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity. This change does not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financials as it conforms with its current practice. 5 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, " Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." ASU 2016-13 introduces a new forward-looking "expected loss" approach, to estimate credit losses on most financial assets and certain other instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require entities to incorporate considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the entity's assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 4, 2021, and the guidance is to be applied using the modified-retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, &quot;Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business (ASU 2017-01),&quot; which revises the definition of a business and provides new guidance in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. ASU 2017-01 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and should be applied prospectively, We do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, &quot;Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04),&quot; which eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test. Under ASU 2017- 04, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value up to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. This guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 4, 2021, with early adoption permitted,and should be applied prospectively. We do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Reclassifications Certain balances in the prior fiscal years have been reclassified to conform to the presentation in the current fiscal year. See " Recent Accounting Pronouncements" above regarding the impact of our adoption of ASU No. 2015-03 and ASU No. 2015-17. Note 2 Net IncomePer Common Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per common share: Note (1): The effect of options to purchase 0.0 and 0.1 million shares for the three and nine months ended April 2 , 2017 and 0.1 million shares for both the three and nine months ended March 27, 2016, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of net income per share on a diluted basis as their effect is anti-dilutive. Note (2): As a result of the net loss from continuing operations attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. for the three months ended April 2, 2017 and March 27, 2016, there is no dilutive impact to the net loss per share calculation for the respective periods. 6 Note 3 Stock-Based Compensation The Company has a Long Term Incentive and Share Award Plan, which is more fully described in Note 12 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in the Company 's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016, that provides for the grant to eligible employees, consultants and directors of stock options, restricted shares, and other stock-based awards. The amounts of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the periods presented are as follows: Stock-based compensation is recorded within the following line items of operating expenses: The following table summarizes stock option activity during the nine months ended April 2, 2017 (unaudited) : As of April 2, 2017, the total future compensation cost related to non-vested options, not yet recognized in the statement of income, was $1.0 million and the weighted average period over which these awards are expected to be recognized was 2.2years. The Company grants shares of Common Stock to its employees that are subject to r estrictions on transfer and risk of forfeiture until fulfillment of applicable service and performance conditions and, in certain cases, holding periods (Restricted Stock). The following table summarizes the activity of non-vested restricted stock awards during thenine months ended April 2, 2017 (unaudited) : The fair value of non-vested shares is determined based on the closing stock price on the grant date. As of April 2, 2017, there was $6.9million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted stock-based compensation to be recognized over the weighted-average remaining period of 2.2 years. 7 Note 4 - Dispositions Pending disposition of Fannie May On March 15, 2017, the Company and Ferrero International S.A., a Luxembourg corporation ("Ferrero"), entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") pursuant to which Ferrero will purchase from the Company all of the outstanding equity of Fannie May Confections Brands, Inc., including its subsidiaries, Fannie May Confections, Inc. and Harry London Candies, Inc. ("Fannie May") (the "Acquisition"). The aggregate consideration payable to the Company in exchange for all of the outstanding equity of Fannie May is $115.0 million in cash (subject to adjustment for seasonal working capital). The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants by the Company and F errero. The closing of the Acquisition is expected tobe onMay 30, 2017 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including applicable regulatory approvals, covenants to enter into a transition services agreement whereby the Company will provide certain post-closing services to Ferrero and Fannie May related to the business of Fannie May and a commercial agreement with respect to the distribution of certain Ferrero and Fannie May products. The Company determined that the Fannie May business (disposal group) met the held for sale criteria, as prescribed by FASB ASC 360-10-45-9, but did not meet the criteria to qualify as a discontinued operation. Further, per ASC 360-10-35-43, a disposal group classified as held for sale is initially measured at the lower of its carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell . The Company compared Fannie May'scarrying amountto its fair value less estimated costs to sell, and determined thatthe disposal group should be measured at its carrying amountas of April 2, 2017. The assets and liabilities of Fannie May are presented as "Assets held for sale" and "Liabilities held for sale"in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of April 2, 2017. The following table presents the aggregate carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities related to the Fannie May business to be disposed of as of April 2, 2017: Note (1) - Per FASB ASC 350-20-40, when a portion of reporting unit that constitutes a business is to be disposed of, goodwill associated with that business shall be included in the carrying amount of the business in determining the gain or loss on disposal. The amount of goodwill to be included in that carrying amount shall be based on the relative fair values of the business to be disposed of and the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained. Fannie May represents a business as defined by FASB and is included in the Company's Gourmet Food &amp; Gift Baskets reporting unit. As a result, we allocated goodwill of $14.9 million to the Fannie May business based on the relative fair value of Fannie May to the remaining Gourmet Food &amp; Gift Baskets reporting unit. The Company estimated the fair value of the Gourmet Food &amp; Gift Baskets reporting unit in a manner consistent with its significant accounting policy for goodwill, described in Item 15, Note 1 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016. Disposition of Colonial Gifts Limited (&quot;iFlorist&quot;) During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company 's management committed to a plan to sell its iFlorist business in order to focus its internal resources and capital on integrating and achieving synergy savings with respect to its acquisition of Harry & David, which was completed on September 30, 2014. As a result, the Company determined that the iFlorist business (disposal group) met the held for sale criteria, as prescribed by FASB ASC 360-10-45-9, as of September 27, 2015. As such, the Company compared iFlorist's carrying amount ($3.4 million) to its fair value less cost to sell ($1.5 million), and recorded an impairment charge of $1.9 million during the period ended September 27, 2015. The Company recorded this impairment charge within "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. During October 2015, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of the assets of iFlorist to Euroflorist AB ("Euroflorist"), a pan-European floral and gifting company headquartered in Malmo, Sweden. As consideration for the assets sold, the Company received an investment in Euroflorist with a fair value on the date of sale of approximately $1.5 million. (The Company will account for this investment using the cost method as it does not possess the ability to exercise significant influence over Euroflorist.) Upon completion of the sale of iFlorist during the quarter ended December 27, 2015, the Company recorded an additional loss on sale of $0.2 million. 8 Note 5 Inventory The Company 's inventory, stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, includes purchased and manufactured finished goods for sale, packaging supplies, crops, raw material ingredients for manufactured products and associated manufacturing labor and is classified as follows: Inventories to be disposed of as a result of the Fannie May disposition were included in &quot;Assets held for sale&quot; on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 2, 2017, and accordingly, are not included in this table (see ). Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets The following table presents goodwill by segment and the related change in the net carrying amount: (1) The total carrying amount of goodwill for all periods in the table above is reflected net of $71.1 million of accumulated impairment charges, which were recorded in the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment during fiscal 2009. The Company 's other intangible assets consist of the following: Trademarks and customer lists to be disposed of as a result of the Fannie May disposition were included in &quot;Assets held for sale&quot; on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 2, 2017, and accordingly, are not included in this table (see ). Intangible assets are reviewed for impairmen t whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Future estimated amortization expense is as follows: remainder of fiscal 2017 - $0.4million, fiscal 2018 - $1.3 million, fiscal 2019 - $0.7 million, fiscal 2020 - $0.6 million, fiscal 2021 - $0.6million and thereafter - $3.1million. 9 Note 7 Investments The Company has certain investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies. The Company accounts for these investments using the equity method if they provide the Company the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on the investee's Board of Directors, are considered in determining whether the equity method is appropriate. The Company records equity method investments initially at cost, and adjusts the carrying amount to reflect the Company's share of the earnings or losses of the investee. The Company 's equity method investmentiscomprised of a 29.0% interest in Flores Online, a Sao Paulo,Brazil based internet floral and gift retailer, that the Company made on May 31, 2012. The book value of this investment was $1.1 million as of April 2, 2017 and July 3, 2016, and is included in the "Other assets" line item within the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The Company's equity in the net loss of Flores Online for the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017and March 27, 2016was less than $0.1 million. During the quarter ended September 27, 2015, the Company determined that the fair value of its investment in Flores Online ($1.2 million) was below its carrying value ($2.9 million) and that this decline was other-than-temporary. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1.7 million, which is included within the "Other (income) expense, net" line items in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the nine-months ended March 27, 2016. Investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies, where the Company does not possess the ability to exercise significa nt influence, are accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments are originally recorded at cost, and are included within the "Other assets" line item within the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The aggregate carrying amount of the Company's cost method investments was $1.7 million (including a $1.5 million investment in Euroflorist see ) as of April 2, 2017and July 3, 2016. The Company also holds certain trading securities associated with its Non-Qualified Deferred C ompensation Plan ("NQDC Plan"). These investments are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included within the "Other assets" line item in the condensed consolidated balance sheets (see ). Each reporting period, the Company uses available qualitative and quantitative information to evaluate its investments for impairment. When a decline in fair value, if any, is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. Note 8 Debt The Company 's current and long-term debt consists of the following: (1) On December 23, 2016 , the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "2016 Amended Credit Agreement") with JPMorgan Chase Bank as administrative agent, and a group of lenders. The 2016 Amended Credit Agreement amended and restated the Company 's credit agreementdated as of September 30, 2014(the "2014 Agreement") to, among other things, extend the maturity date of the $115.0 million outstanding term loan (&quot;Term Loan&quot;) and the revolving credit facility (the &quot;Revolver&quot;) by approximately two years to December 23, 2021. The Term Loan is payable in 19 quarterly installments of principal and interest beginning on April 2, 2017, with escalating principal payments, at the rate of 5% in year one, 7.5% in year two, 10% in year three, 12.5% in year four, and 15% in year five, with the remaining balance of $61.8 million due upon maturity. The Revolver, in the aggregate amount of $200 million, subject to seasonal reduction to an aggregate amount of $100 million for the period from January 1 through August 1, may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, subject to certain restrictions. For each borrowing under the 2016 Amended Credit Agreement, the Company may elect that such borrowing bear interest at an annual rate equal to either (1) a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.75% to 1.5%, based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio, where the base rate is the highest of (a) the prime rate, (b)the highest of thefederal funds rate and the overnight bank funding rate as published by the New York Fed,plus 0.5% and (c) an adjustedLIBO rate,plus 1% or (2)an adjustedLIBO rateplus an applicable margin varying from 1.75% to 2.5%,based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. The 2016 Amended Credit Agreement requires that while any borrowings are outstanding the Company comply with certain financial covenants and affirmative covenants as well as certain negative covenants, that subject to certain exceptions, limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make certain investments and make certain restricted payments. The Company was in compliance with these covenants as of April 2, 2017. The 2016 Amended Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors. Future principal payments under the term loan are as fo llows: $1.5million remainder of fiscal 2017, $7.2million fiscal 2018, $10.1million fiscal 2019, $12.9million fiscal 2020, $15.8 million - fiscal 2021, and $66.1 million thereafter. 10 Note 9 - Property, Plant and Equipment The Company 's property, plant and equipment consists of the following: Property, plant and equipment to be disposed of as a result of the Fannie May disposition were included in &quot;Assets held for sale&quot; on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 2, 2017, and accordingly, are not included in this table (see ). Note 10 - Fair Value Measurements Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments. Although no trading market exists, the Company believes that the carrying amount of its debt approximates fair value due to its variable nature. The Company's investments in non-marketable equity instruments of private companies are carried at cost and are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, when an event or circumstances indicate that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. The Company's remaining financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value (see table below). The Company's non-financial assets, such as definite lived intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are recorded at cost and are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change such that it is more likely than not that an impairment may exist, as required under the accounting standards. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability, in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under the guidance are described below: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access. Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. The following table presents by level, within the fair value hierarchy, financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: (1) The Company has established a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for certain members of senior management. Deferred compensation plan assets are invested in mutual funds held in a " rabbi trust" which is restricted for payment to participants of the NQDC Plan. Trading securities held in a rabbi trust are measured using quoted market prices at the reporting date and are included in the "Other assets" line item, with the corresponding liability included in the "Other liabilities" line item in the consolidated balance sheets. 11 Note 11 Income Taxes At the end of each interim reporting period, the Company estimates its effective income tax rate expected to be applicable for the full year. This estimate is used in providing for income taxes on a year-to-date basis and may change in subsequent interim periods. The Company's effective tax rate from operations for the three months and nine months ended April 2, 2017was 34.7% and 31.9% respectively, compared to 37.6% and 31.7% inthe same respective periodsof the prior year. The effective rates for fiscal 2017 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to various permanent differences and tax credits , including excess tax benefits on stock based compensation as a result of the Company's early adoption of ASU 2016-09 (see) , domestic production deductions and research and development credits, partially offset by state income taxes. The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the domestic production deduction and various tax credits such as employment credits and research and development credits that were renewed by U.S. Congress in December 2015, as well as the impact of the Company's reduced effective foreign tax rate in the UK resulting from the sale of iFlorist in October 2015, partially offset by state income taxes. The Company files income tax returns in the U .S. federal jurisdiction, various state jurisdictions, and various foreign countries. The Company concluded its U.S. federal examination for fiscal 2014, however, fiscal years 2015 and 2016 remain subject to U.S. federal examination. Due to ongoing state examinations and non-conformity with the U.S. federal statute of limitations for assessment, certain states remain open from fiscal 2012. The Company commenced operations in foreign jurisdictions in 2012. The Company's foreign income tax filings are open for examination by its respective foreign tax authorities, mainly Canada and the United Kingdom. The Company' s policy is to recognize interest and penalties accrued on any unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. At April 2, 2017 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.4 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that none of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. Note 12 Business Segments The Company 's management reviews the results of the Company's operations by the following three business segments: 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral, BloomNet Wire Service, and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets Segment performance is measured based on contribution margin, which includes only the direct controllable revenue and operating expe nses of the segments. As such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead (see (a) below), nor does it include depreciation and amortization, other (income) expense, net and income taxes, or stock-based compensation and certain acquisition/integration costs, both of which are included within corporate overhead. Assets and liabilities are reviewed at the consolidated level by management and not accounted for by segment. (a) Corporate expenses consist of the Company's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above categories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. 12 Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation There are various claims, lawsuits, and pending actions against the Company and its subsidiaries incident to the operations of its businesses. It is the opinion of management, after consultation with counsel, that the ultimate resolution of such claims, lawsuits and pending actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Note 14. Fire at the Fannie May Warehouse and Distribution Facility On November 27, 2014, a fire occurred at the Company's Maple Heights, Ohio warehouse and distribution facility. While the fire did not cause any injuries, the building was severely damaged, rendering it inoperable for the holiday season, and all Fannie May and Harry London confections in the facility were destroyed. As a result, the Company had limited supplies of its Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products available in its retail stores as well as for its ecommerce and wholesale channels during its fiscal 2015 holiday season. While the Company implemented contingency plans to increase production for Fannie May Fine Chocolates and Harry London Chocolates products at its production facility in Canton, Ohio and to shift warehousing and distribution operations to alternate Company facilities, product availability was severely limited, impacting revenue and earnings during fiscal 2015, and lingering into fiscal 2016. The following table reflects the costs related to the fire andthe insurance recovery and associated gain as of September 27, 2015: During the three months ended September 27, 2015, the Company and its insurance carrier reached final agreement, and during the three months ended December 27, 2015, the Company received all remaining proceeds from its Fannie May fire claim. The agreement, in the amount of $55.0 million, provided for: (i) recovery of raw materials and work-in-process at replacement cost, and finished goods at selling price, less costs to complete the sale and normal discounts and other charges, as well as (ii) other incremental fire-related costs. The cost of inventory lost in the fire was approximately $29.6 million, while other fire-related costs amounted to approximately $5.8 million, including incremental contracted lease and cold storage fees which was incurred until the Company moved back into its leased facility. The resulting gain of $19.6 million is included in "Other (income) expense, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations fornine monthsended March 27, 2016. 13 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT 'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Forward Looking Statements This "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (MD&A) is intended to provide an understanding of our financial condition, change in financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and results of operations. The following MD&A discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this Form10-Q and in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed or referred to in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to any differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption "Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results" and under Part I, Item 1A, of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Risk Factors." Overview 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the " Company") is a leading provider of gourmet food and floral gifts for all occasions. For the past 40 years, 1-800-FLOWERS (1-800-356-9377 or www.1800flowers.com) has been helping deliver smiles for our customers with gifts for every occasion, including fresh flowers and the finest selection of plants, gift baskets, gourmet foods, confections, candles, balloons and plush stuffed animals. As always, our 100% Smile Guarantee backs every gift. The Company's Celebrations suite of services including Celebrations Passport Free Shipping program, Celebrations Rewards and Celebrations RemindersSM, are all designed to engage with customers and deepen relationships as a one-stop destination for all celebratory and gifting occasions. In 2016, 1-800-Flowers.com was awarded a Silver Stevie "e-Commerce Customer Service" Award, recognizing the Company's innovative use of online technologies and social media to service the needs of customers. In addition, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. was recognized as one of Internet Retailer's Top 300 B2B e-commerce companies and was also recently named in Internet Retailer's 2016 Top Mobile 500 as one of the world's leading mobile commerce sites. The Company was included in Internet Retailer's 2015 Top 500 for fast growing e-commerce companies. In 2015, 1-800-FLOWERS.COM was named a winner of the "Best Companies to Work for in New York State" award by The New York Society for Human Resource Management (NYS-SHRM). The Company 's BloomNet international floral wire service (www.mybloomnet.net) provides a broad range of quality products and value-added services designed to help professional florists grow their businesses profitably. The 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. "Gift Shop" also includes gourmet gifts such as premium, gift-quality fruits and other gourmet items from Harry & David (1-877-322-1200 or www.harryanddavid.com), popcorn and specialty treats from The Popcorn Factory (1-800-541-2676 or www.thepopcornfactory.com); cookies and baked gifts from Cheryl's (1-800-443-8124 or www.cheryls.com); premium chocolates and confections from Fannie May (www.fanniemay.com and www.harrylondon.com); gift baskets and towers from 1-800- Baskets.com (www.1800baskets.com); premium English muffins and other breakfast treats from Wolferman's (1-800-999-1910 or www.wolfermans.com); carved fresh fruit arrangements from FruitBouquets.com (www.fruitbouquets.com); and top quality steaks and chops from Stock Yards (www.stockyards.com). On March 15, 2017, the Company and Ferrero International S.A. entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement pursuant to which Ferrero will purchase from the Company all of the outstanding equity of Fannie May Confections Brands, Inc., including its subsidiaries, Fannie May Confections, Inc. and Harry London Candies, Inc. The aggregate consideration payable to the Company in exchange for all of the outstanding equity of Fannie May is $115.0 million in cash (subject to adjustment for seasonal working capital). The closing of the Acquisition is expected tobe onMay 30, 2017 (s ee ). Shares in 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc. are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, ticker symbol: FLWS. 14 Category Information The following table presents the net revenues, gross profit and category contribution margin from each of the Company 's business segments, as well as consolidated EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income. (Due to certain one-time items, the following Non-GAAP reconciliation tables have been included within MD&A. In order to present comparable information, certain financial information for the nine months ended March 27, 2016,is also being presented on a pro-forma basis.) 15 16 Reconciliation of GAAP net income (loss) to Adjusted income (loss) attributable to 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc.: 17 Reconciliation of GAAP income (loss) attributable to 1-800-Flowers.com, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA, excluding stock-based compensation (b): (a) Corporate expenses consist of the Company 's enterprise shared service cost centers, and include, among other items, Information Technology, Human Resources, Accounting and Finance, Legal, Executive and Customer Service Center functions, as well as Stock-Based Compensation. In order to leverage the Company's infrastructure, these functions are operated under a centralized management platform, providing support services throughout the organization. The costs of these functions, other than those of the Customer Service Center, which are allocated directly to the above categories based upon usage, are included within corporate expenses as they are not directly allocable to a specific segment. (b) Performance is me asured based on segment contribution margin or segment Adjusted EBITDA, reflecting only the direct controllable revenue and operating expenses of the segments. As such, management's measure of profitability for these segments does not include the effect of corporate overhead, described above, depreciation and amortization, other income (net), nor does it include one-time charges or gains. Management utilizes EBITDA, and adjusted financial information, as a performance measurement tool because it considers such information a meaningful supplemental measure of its performance and believes it is frequently used by the investment community in the evaluation of companies with comparable market capitalization. The Company also uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information as one of the factors used to determine the total amount of bonuses available to be awarded to executive officers and other employees. The Company's credit agreement uses EBITDA and adjusted financial information to measure compliance with covenants such as interest coverage and debt incurrence. EBITDA and adjusted financial information is also used by the Company to evaluate and price potential acquisition candidates. EBITDA and adjusted financial information have limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: (a) EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, the Company's working capital needs; (b) EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on the Company's debts; and (c) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such capital expenditures. Because of these limitations, EBITDA should only be used on a supplemental basis combined with GAAP results when evaluating the Company's performance. 18 Results of Operations Net Revenues Net revenues consist primarily of the selling price of the merchandise, service or outbound shipping charges, less discounts, returns and credits. Net revenues during the three months ended April 2, 2017 were consistent with the same period of the prior year. This reflects lower year-over-year revenues in the Company' s Gourmet Food& Gift Baskets segment, primarily due to the impact of the Easter holiday shifting into the Company's fiscal fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017, compared toFiscal 2016,when Easter was in the Company's fiscal third quarter. The unfavorable revenues within the Gourmet Food& Gift Baskets segmentwere largelyoffset by strong revenue growth in the Company's Consumer Floral and BloomNet segments,driven by "everyday" gifting and leveraging the benefit of the favorable placement of the Valentine's Day holiday. Net revenues increased 1.6% during the nine months ended April 2, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year,as a result ofgrowth within the Company's Consumer Floral and BloomNet segments, due to "everyday" gifting and the favorable placement of the Valentine's Day holiday, partiallyoffset by lower revenue within the Company's Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment due to the impact of the Easter holiday shift, in addition toa reductionin the number ofHarry & David seasonalkiosks and pop-up locationsand the closure of several underperformingretail stores. The revenue impact of the shift of the Easter holiday onthe threeand nine months ended April 2, 2017, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, is approximately $13.0 million. E-commerce revenues (combined online and telephonic) decreased by 0.9% during the three months ended April 2, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of lower year-over-year revenues in the Company's Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment, primarily due to the impact of the Easter holiday shifting into the Company's fiscal fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017, compared to Fiscal 2016, when Easter was in the Company's fiscal third quarter. This impact was largely offset by strong revenue growth in the Company's Consumer Floral segment, primarily attributable to the favorable placement of the Valentine's Day holiday. E-commerce revenues increased 1.3%, during the nine months ended April 2, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of growth in the Company's Consumer Floral segment, primarily attributable to increases in "everyday" volume, as well as the favorable placement of the Valentine's Day holiday.Growth within theConsumer Floral segmentwas partially offset by lower revenues within the Gourmet Food& Gift Baskets segment, primarily due to the impact of the Easter holiday shifting into the Company's fiscal fourth quarter this year. During the three months ended April 2, 2017, the Company fulfilled approximately 2,703,000 orders through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales) at an average value of $65.75, compared to approximately 2,860,000 orders at an average order value of $62.74 during the same period of the prior year. During the nine months ended April 2, 2017, the Company fulfilled approximately 9,395,000 orders through its e-commerce sales channels (online and telephonic sales) at an average order value of $75.08, compared toapproximately 9,550,000 orders at an average value of $72.92 during the same period of the prior year. Other revenues are comprised of the Company' s BloomNet Wire Service segment, as well as the wholesale and retail channels of its 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral and Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segments. Other revenues increased by 2.2% and 2.7% during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior year, as a result of wholesale growth within the Gourmet Food and Gift Baskets segment and membership and ancillary service increases within the Bloomnet segment, partially offset by the timing of the Easter holiday and a reduction in the number ofHarry & David seasonalkiosks and pop-up locationsand the closure of several underperformingretail stores. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment includes the operations of the 1-800-Flowers.com brand, which derives revenue from the sale of consumer floral products through its e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales), retail stores, and r oyalties from its franchise operations, as well as iFlorist, a UK based e-commerce retailer of floral products (through the date of its disposition in October 2015).Net revenues increased 10.2% and 6.0%, during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, primarily as a result higher order volumedriven by the Company's ability to leverage theTuesday date placement of Valentine's Day, in comparison to the prior yearwhen Valentine's Day fell on a Sunday, as well asenhanced merchandise assortments, including the Flirty Feline floral arrangement, and efforts to increase its "everyday" business, including birthdays, anniversaries, sympathy and "just because," partially offset by the timing of the Easter holiday, which shiftedapproximately $2.5 millionof revenue into the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017. The BloomNet Wire Service segment inc ludes revenues from membership fees as well as other product and service offerings to florists. Net revenues increased 7.0% and 2.9%during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, respectively,compared to the same periods of the prior year, primarilydue toincreased order volumes, partly due to the favorable Valentine's Day placement, and an expanded offering of digital marketing and advertising programs. Growth during the nine months ended April 2, 2017 was partially offset by a decline in wholesale products, due to unfavorable Christmas holiday volume. The Gourmet Food &amp; Gift Baskets segment includes the operations of Harry &amp; David, Wolferman' s, Stockyards, Cheryl's, Fannie May, Harry London, The Popcorn Factory and 1-800-Baskets/DesignPac. Revenue is derived from the sale of gourmet fruits, cookies, baked gifts, premium chocolates and confections, gourmet popcorn, gift baskets, and prime steaks and chops through the Company's e-commerce sales channels (telephonic and online sales) and company-owned and operated retail stores under the Harry & David, Cheryl's and Fannie May brand names, as well as wholesale operations. Net revenues decreased 13.6% and 0.5% during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year,as a result of the timing of the Easter holiday, which shifted approximately $10.5 million of revenue into the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017, as well as the timing of some Harry & David revenues related to the brand's Fruit of the Month Club shipments and a reduction in the number of Harry & David seasonalkiosks and pop-up locationsand the closure of several underperformingretail stores , partially offset by e-commerce revenue growth across most brands, as well as higher wholesale volumes within the Fannie May, Harry & David and DesignPac brands. 19 Gross Profit Gross profit consists of net revenues less cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of florist fulfillment costs (fees paid directly to florists), the cost of floral and non-floral merchandise sold from inventory or through third parties, and associ ated costs including inbound and outbound shipping charges. Additionally, cost of revenues include labor and facility costs related to direct-to-consumer and wholesale production operations. Gross profit decreased 3.2% during the three months ended April 2, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the aforementioned revenue decline and a 130 basis point decrease in gross margin percentage, both the result of the later Easter, which shifted higher margin e-commerce and retail revenues into the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017, in comparison toFiscal 2016when Easter fell in the third quarter. Gross profit increased 1.2% during the nine months ended April 2, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, as a result of the aforementioned revenue growth within the Consumer Floral and BloomNet segments, partially offset by a 20 basis point decline in gross margin percentage attributable to the Gourmet Food & Gift Baskets segment. The 1-800-Flowers.com Consumer Floral segment gross profit increased by 10.0% and 7.5%, respectively, during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, due to the revenue growth noted above. Gross margin percentageof 40.6%for the three months ended April 2, 2017 wasconsistent with the same period of the prior year, but increased60 basis points to 40.8%, during the nine months ended April 2, 2017, as a result of improved product sourcing andreductions in shipping costs, due to improvements in ground transportation coverage. The BloomNet Wire Service segment gross profit during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017 increased by 4.2% and 4.7%, respective ly, in comparisonto the same periods of the prior year, due to the revenue increase referred to above. During the three months and nine months ended April 2, 2017, gross margin percentage was 53.6% and 56.5%, respectively, representing a decrease of 140 basis points, and an increase of 100 basis points, during the same periods of the prior year, as a result of product mix. The Gourmet Food &amp; G ift Baskets segment gross profit decreased 21.7% and 1.8%, while gross margin percentage declined 360 and 60 basis points,during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, compared to the same periods of the prior year, as a result of the aforementioned shift of the Easter Holiday, while gross margin percentage was also impacted by channel and product mix, and a decline in manufacturing productivity. Marketing and Sales Expense Marketing and sales expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures, catalog costs, online portal and search costs, retail store and fulfillment operations (other than costs included in cost of revenues) and customer service center expenses, as well as the operating expenses of the Company's departments engaged in marketing, selling and merchandising activities. Marketing and sales expenses decreased 1.9% during the three months ended April 2, 2017, primarily due to the shift of advertising and variable costs associated with the Easter selling season which moved into the Company's fiscal fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017, compared to Fiscal 2016,when Easter was in the Company's fiscal third quarter. A s a percentage of net revenues, marketing and sales expenses decreased 50 and 20 basis points, to 30.0% and 25.7%, during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior year, as a result of a decrease in labor costs due to a reduction in performance based bonuses, as well as reductions in labor and facility costs associated with the year-over-year decreasein the number of Harry & David seasonalkiosks and pop-up locations,and the closure of several underperformingretail stores. 20 Technology and Development Expense Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and operating expenses of the Company' s information technology group, costs associated with its websites, including hosting, design, content development and maintenance and support costs related to the Company's order entry, customer service, fulfillment and database systems. Technology and development expenses, during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, increased 3.5% and 1.8%, respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior year, primarilydue toincreased license and maintenance costs related to system monitoring and security, and platform improvements, partially offset bylower labor costs, due to reduced headcount and a reduction in performance based bonuses. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense consists of payroll and other expenses in support of the Company' s executive, finance and accounting, legal, human resources and other administrative functions, as well as professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expense, during the three months ended April 2, 2017, was consistent with the same period of the prior year, but increased 5.6%, during the nine months ended April 2, 2017, compared to the same period of the prior year, primarily as a result of increased health insurance costs, and an increase in headcount, partially offset by lower labor costs as a result of decreases in performance based bonuses, as well as one-time Harry and David integration costs incurred during the prior year. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization expense for the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017 increased 12.5% and 5.7%, respectively, in comparison tothe same periods of the prior year, as a result of recent increases in capital expenditures, primarily in support of the Company's technology infrastructure. 21 Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs attributable to the Company' s credit facility (see ), net of income earned on the Company's available cash balances. Interest expense, net decreased 3.9% and 9.4% during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, respectively in comparison to the same periods of the prior year, due to the reduction in the outstanding Term Debt due to principal payments during the year, partially offset bya $0.3 million write-off of deferred financing costs as a result of amending theCompany's credit facility in December 2016, and an overall increase in interest rates. Other (income) expense, net Other (income) expense, net for the three months ended April 2, 2017 and March 27, 2016 consists primarily of income and losses resulting fromchanges in thevalue of the Company's Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan investments. Other (income) expense, net for the nine months ended April 2, 2017 consists primarily of income from the increase in thevalue of the Company's Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan investments, partiallyoffset by a decrease in the Company's equity interest in Flores Online, while Other (income) expense, net for the nine months ended September 27, 2015 consists primarily of a $19.6 million gain on insurance recoveries related to the Fannie May warehouse fire, offset by a $2.1million impairment related to the sale ofiFlorist (see ), a $1.7 million impairment of the Company's investment in Flores Online (see ), and a decline in the value of Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan investments. Income Taxes The Company recorded income tax benefit of $5.9 million, and income tax expense of $16.9 million, respectively, during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, compared to an income tax benefit of $5.5 million and in come tax expense of $21.8 million, respectively during the three and nine months ended March 27, 2016. The Company's effective tax rate from operations for the three months and nine months ended April 2, 2017 was 34.7% and 31.9% respectively, compared to 37.6% and 31.7% in the same respective periods of the prior year. The effective rates for fiscal 2017 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due to various permanent differences and tax credits, including excess tax benefits on stock based compensation as a result of the Company's early adoption of ASU 2016-09 (see ), domestic production deductions and research and development credits, partially offset by state income taxes. The effective rate for fiscal 2016 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the domestic production deduction and various tax credits such as employment credits and research and development credits that were renewed by U.S. Congress in December 2015, as well as the impact of the Company's reduced effective foreign tax rate in the UK resulting from the sale of iFlorist in October 2015, partially offset by state income taxes.At April 2, 2017 the Company has remaining unrecognized tax positions of approximately $0.4 million, including accrued interest and penalties of $0.1 million. The Company believes that none of its unrecognized tax positions will be resolved over the next twelve months. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows At April 2, 2017, the Company had working capital of $133.0 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $56.8 million, and $87.4 million of net assets held for sale relating to the pending Fannie May transaction, compared to working capital of $45.8 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $27.8 million, at July 3, 2016. Net cash provided by operating activities of $61.2million for the nine months ended April 2, 2017, was primarily attributable to the Company's net income during the period, adjusted by non-cash charges for depreciation/amortization and stock based compensation, partially offset byseasonal changes in working capital, including an increase in trade receivables and prepaids, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in investing activities of $18.8 million for the nine months ended April 2, 2017, was primarily attributable to capital expenditures related to the Company's technology infrastructure and Gourmet Foods & Gift Baskets production equipment. Net cash used in financing activities of $13.5million for the nine months ended April 2, 2017 was primarily due tonet Term Loan repaymentsof $4.0 million, the acquisition of $8.3million of treasury stock and $1.5mm ofadditional debt issuance costs relatedto the 2016 Amended Credit Agreement (see ). All borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility wererepaid by the end of the fiscal second quarter. 22 Credit Facility See for details regarding the 2016 Amended Credit Agreement. Despite the current challenging economic environment, the Company believes that cash flows from operations along with available borrowings from its 2016 Amended Credit Agreement will be a sufficient source of liquidity. Due to the seasonal nature of the Company's business, and its continued expansion into non-floral products, the Thanksgiving through Christmas holiday season, which falls within the Company's second fiscal quarter, is expected to generate nearly 50% of the Company's annual revenues, and all of its earnings. As a result, the Company generates significant cash from operations during its second quarter, and then utilizes that cash for operating needs during its fiscal third and fourth quarters. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017, the Company expects to close on the sale of its Fannie May transaction (see - Dispositions for details regarding the pending sale of Fannie May). The terms of the Company's 2016 Credit Facility provide for the reinvestment of such sale proceeds within a 24 month period following closing. Until such time, or until the Company reinvests such proceeds, the proceeds from the sale will be used for working capital needs, reducing the amount that the Company expects to borrow against its Revolver to fund pre-holiday manufacturing and inventory purchases during its first and second quarter of fiscal 2018. Borrowings under the Revolver typically peak in November, at which time cash generated from operations during the Christmas holiday shopping season is expected to enable the Company to repay any working capital borrowings prior to the end of December. Stock Repurchase Program The Company has a stock repurchase plan through which purchases can be made from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions, subject to general market conditions. The repurchase pro gram is financed utilizing available cash. In October 2016, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an increase to its stock repurchase plan of up to $25 million. As of April 2, 2017, $19.7million remained authorized under the plan. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business related to the Company's contractual obligations as discussed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As disclosed in the Company 's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016, the discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements of 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, Inc., which have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company's most critical accounting policies relate to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventory, goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets and income taxes. There have been no significant changes to the assumptions and estimates related to the Company's critical accounting policies, since July 3, 2016. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, " Revenue from Contracts with Customers." This amended guidance will enhance the comparability of revenue recognition practices and will be applied to all contracts with customers. Expanded disclosures related to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is recognized are requirements under the amended guidance. This guidance will be effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and may be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, " Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs," which amends ASC 835-30, "Interest Imputation of Interest." In order to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs, ASU No. 2015-03 requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability, and not recorded as a separate asset. The Company adopted this standard effective July 4, 2016 and applied it retrospectively to all periods presented. The impact of the adoption of the new guidance was to reclassify $3.6 million of deferred financing costs previously included within "Other Assets" to "Long-term debt" in the consolidated balance sheets as of July 3, 2016. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, " Inventory (Topic 330)." The pronouncement was issued to simplify the measurement of inventory and changes the measurement from lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. ASU 2015-11 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 1, 2018. The adoption of ASU 2015-11 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. 23 In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, &quot;Financial Instruments Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The pronouncement requires equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes, requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset, and eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost. These changes become effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. The adoption is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 201 6, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)." Under this guidance, an entity is required to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. This guidance offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions. Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. This guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 28, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting." ASU No. 2016-09 affects all entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. ASU No. 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The Company has elected to early adopt the amendments in ASU 2016-09, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017. As a result, stock-based compensation excess tax benefits are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of the provision for income taxes, whereas they were previously recognized in equity. This change resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits against income tax expenses, rather than additional paid-in capital, of $0.1 million and $0.9 million for the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017. There wasnoimpact on earnings per share sinceapproximately 700,000 tax benefit shares for thenine months ended April 2, 2017, previously associated with the APIC pool calculation, are no longer considered in the diluted share computation. Additionally, our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows now present excess tax benefits as an operating activity. This change has been applied prospectively in accordance with the ASU and prior periods have not been adjusted. Further, the Company has elected to account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. The cumulative effect of this change, which was recorded as compensation expensein fiscal 2017, was not material to the financial statements. In addition, this ASU allows entities to withhold an amount up to an employees' maximum individual statutory tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction, up from the minimum statutory requirement, without resulting in liability classification of the award. We adopted this change on a modified retrospective basis, with no impact to our consolidated financial statements. Finally, this ASU clarified that the cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity. This change does not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financials as it conforms with its current practice . In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, " Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." ASU 2016-13 introduces a new forward-looking "expected loss" approach, to estimate credit losses on most financial assets and certain other instruments, including trade receivables. The estimate of expected credit losses will require entities to incorporate considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the entity's assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses. ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 4, 2021, and the guidance is to be applied using the modified-retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, &quot;Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business (ASU 2017-01),&quot; which revises the definition of a business and provides new guidance in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. ASU 2017-01 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and should be applied prospectively, We do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, &quot;Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04),&quot; which eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test. Under ASU 2017- 04, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value up to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. This guidance is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending July 4, 2021, with early adoption permitted,and should be applied prospectively. We do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Forward Looking Information and Factors that May Affe ct Future Results Our disclosure and analysis in this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent the Company 's current expectations or beliefs concerning future events and can generally be identified by the use of statements that include words such as "estimate," "project," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "foresee," "likely," "will," "goal," "target" or similar words or phrases. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of the Company's control that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including: the Company 's ability: to achieve revenue and profitability; to leverage its operating platform and reduce operating expenses; to manage the increased seasonality of its business; to cost effectively acquire and retain customers; to effectively integrate and grow acquired companies, including the recent acquisition of Harry &amp; David; to reduce working capital requirements and capital expenditures; to compete against existing and new competitors; to manage expenses associated with sales and marketing and necessary general and administrative and technology investments; and to cost efficiently manage inventories; the outcome of contingencies, including legal proceedings in the normal course of business; and general consumer sentiment and economic conditions that may affect levels of discretionary customer purchases of the Company 's products. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or un known risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. 24 We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects i n our Forms 10-Q, 8-K and 10-K reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2016 listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historic results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers can find them in Part I, Item 1A, of that filing under the heading "Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995". We incorporate that section of that Form 10-K in this filing and investors should refer to it. ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risk from the effect of interest rate changes. Interest Rate Risk The Company 's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Company's investment of available cash balances and its long-term debt. The Company generally invests its cash and cash equivalents in investment grade corporate and U.S. government securities. Due to the currently low rates of return the Company is receiving on its cash equivalents, the potential for a significant decrease in short-term interest rates is low and, therefore, a further decrease would not have a material impact on the Company's interest income. Borrowings under the Company's credit facility bear interest at a variable rate, plus an applicable margin, and therefore expose the Company to market risk for changes in interest rates. The effect of a 50 basis point increase in current interest rates on the Company's interest expense would be approximately $0.2 million and $0.6million during the three and nine months ended April 2, 2017, respectively.