Item 1.Financial Statements. 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 1 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Income (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 2 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. (1) Included in other income on the consolidated statements of income (2) Included in income taxes on the consolidated statements of income (3) Included in salaries and employee benefit expense on the consolidated statements of income 3 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 4 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements ofCash Flows (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 5 1st Constitution Bancorp Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements June30, 2015 (Unaudited) (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include 1st Constitution Bancorp (the "Company"), its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1st Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1st Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., 204 South Newman Street Corp., and 249 New York Avenue, LLC. 1st Constitution Capital Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements, as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary.All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.The accounting and reporting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2014 , filed with the SEC on March 26, 2015. In the opinion of the Company, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) which are necessary for a fair presentation of the operating results for the interim periods have been included. The results of operations for periods of less than a year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. The Company has evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date of June30, 2015 for items that should potentially be recognized or disclosed in these financial statements.The evaluation was conducted through the date these financial statements were issued. On April 6, 2015, the Company paid a five percent common stock dividend to shareholders of record on March 16, 2015.As appropriate, common shares and per common share data presented in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes below were adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. (2) Acquisition of Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company On February 7, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company, a New Jersey state commercial bank ("Rumson"), which merged with and into the Bank, with the Bank as the surviving entity. The merger agreement among the Company, the Bank and Rumson (the "Merger Agreement") provided that the shareholders of Rumson would receive, at their election, for each outstanding share of Rumson common stock that they own at the effective time of the merger, either 0.7772 shares of the Company common stock or $7.50 in cash or a combination thereof, subject to proration as described in the Merger Agreement, so that 60% of the aggregate merger consideration consisted of cash and 40% consisted of shares of the Company's common stock. The Company issued an aggregate of 1,019,223 shares of its common stock and paid $14.8 million in cash in the transaction. The merger was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting and accordingly, assets acquired, liabilities assumed and consideration exchanged were recorded at preliminary estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Rumson's results of operations have been included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income since February 7, 2014. 6 The following table summarizes the final fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 805-10 provides that if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the acquirer shall report in its financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. During the measurement period, the acquirer shall retrospectively adjust the provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. During the measurement period, the acquirer also shall recognize additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. The measurement period may not exceed one year from the acquisition date. All measurements for the Rumson acquisition have been completed as of December 31, 2014. The provisional amounts originally reported have been adjusted to reflect the review and completion of the fair value measurements.As a result of the completion of independent appraisals, the fair value of acquired real estate assets was reduced by approximately $639,000 , deferred tax assets were increased by approximately $403,000 and goodwill was increased by approximately $236,000 .These adjustments had an insignificant effect on the results of operations since the acquisition date. 7 (3) Net Income Per Common Share Basic net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, as adjusted for the assumed exercise of potential common stock warrants, common stock options and unvested restricted stock awards (as defined below), using the treasury stock method. The following tables illustrate the reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) calculations.Dilutive securities in the tables below exclude common stock options and warrants with exercise prices that exceed the average market price of the Company's common stock during the periods presented.Inclusion of these common stock options and warrants would be anti-dilutive to the diluted earnings per common share calculation. 8 For the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 , 32,049 and 259,663 options, respectively, were anti-dilutiveand were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share. For the six months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014, 44,192 and 259,663 options, respectively, were anti-dilutive and were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share. 9 (4) Investment Securities Amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and the estimated fair value by security type are as follows: 10 Restricted stock at June30, 2015 and December31, 2014 consisted of approximately $6.5 million and $1.7 million , respectively, of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at each period end. 11 Gross unrealized losses on available for sale and held to maturity securities and the estimated fair value of the related securities aggregated by security category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at June30, 2015 and December31, 2014 were as follows: 12 The following table sets forth certain information regarding the amortized cost, estimated fair value, weighted average yields and contractual maturities of the Company's investment portfolio as of June30, 2015 .Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.Federal Home Loan Bank stock is included in "Available for Sale-Due in one year or less." 13 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government sponsored corporations and agencies: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.The contractual terms of these investments do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the par value of the investment.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than temporarily impaired. Residential collateralized mortgage obligations and residential mortgage backed securities: The unrealized losses on investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities were caused by increases in market interest rates. The contractual cash flows of these securities are guaranteed by the issuers, which are primarily government or government sponsored agencies. It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Obligations of State and Political Subdivisions: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment.None of the issuers have defaulted on interest payments. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Corporate debt securities: The unrealized losses on investments in corporate debt securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.None of the corporate issuers have defaulted on interest payments. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not a decline in credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity. Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities single issuer :The investments in these securities with unrealized losses are comprised of four corporate trust preferred securities issued by two large financial institutions that mature in 2027. The contractual terms of the trust preferred securities do not allow the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the face value of the trust preferred securities, which is greater than the amortized cost of the trust preferred securities.One of the issuers continues to maintain an investment grade credit rating and neither has defaulted on interest payments.The decline in fair value is attributable to the widening of interest rate spreads and the lack of an active trading market for these securities and, to a lesser degree, market concerns about the issuers' credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities pooled: This trust preferred debt security was issued by a two issuer pool (Preferred Term Securities XXV, Ltd. co-issued by Keefe, Bruyette and Woods, Inc. and First Tennessee ("PRETSL XXV")) consisting primarily of trust preferred debt securities issued by financial institution holding companies.During 2009, the Company recognized an other-than-temporary impairment of $865,000 , of which $364,000 was determined to be a credit loss and charged to operations and $501,000 was recognized in the other comprehensive income (loss) component of shareholders' equity. The primary factor used to determine the credit portion of the impairment loss recognized in the income statement for this security was the discounted present value of projected cash flow where that present value of cash flow was less than the amortized cost basis of the security.The present value of cash flow was developed using an EITF 99-20 model that considered performing collateral ratios, the level of subordination to senior tranches of the security, and credit ratings of and projected credit defaults in the underlying collateral. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates the security to determine if any additional other-than-temporary impairment is required.As of June30, 2015 , management concluded that no additional other-than-temporary impairment had occurred. 14 (5) Allowance for Loan Losses and Credit Quality Disclosure The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at June30, 2015 : The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at December31, 2014 : 15 As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired with evidence of deteriorated credit quality of $2.0 million at June30, 2015 and $2.0 million at December31, 2014 were not classified as non-performing loans. The Company's internal credit risk grades are based on the definitions currently utilized by the banking regulatory agencies.The grades assigned and definitions are as follows, and loans graded excellent, above average, good and watch list are treated as "pass" for grading purposes: 1. Excellent - Loans that are based upon cash collateral held at the Bank and adequately margined. Loans that are based upon "blue chip" stocks listed on the major exchanges and adequately margined. 2. Above Average - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show excellent liquidity and long-term debt is on well-spread schedules of repayment easily covered by cash flow.Such companies have been consistently profitable and have diversification in their product lines or sources of revenue.The continuation of profitable operations for the foreseeable future is likely.Management is comprised of a mix of ages, experience, and backgrounds and management succession is in place.Sources of raw materials are abundant, and for service companies, the source of revenue is abundant.Future needs have been planned for.Character and ability of individuals or company principals are excellent.Loans to individuals are supported by high net worths and liquid assets. 3. Good - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show good liquidity and cash flow adequate to meet maturities of long-term debt with a comfortable margin.Such companies have established profitable records over a number of years, and there has been growth in net worth.Operating ratios are in line with those of the industry, and expenses are in proper relationship to the volume of business done and the profits achieved.Management is well-balanced and competent in their responsibilities.Economic environment is favorable; however, competition is strong.The prospects for growth are good.Loans in this category do not meet the collateral requirements of loans in categories 1 and 2 above. Loans to individuals are supported by good net worths but whose supporting assets are illiquid. 3w. Watch - Included in this category are loans evidencing problems identified by Bank management that require closer supervision.Such problems have not developed to the point which require a Special Mention rating.This category also covers situations where the Bank does not have adequate current information upon which credit quality can be determined.The account officer has the obligation to correct these deficiencies within 30 days from the time of notification. 4. Special Mention - Loans or borrowing relationships that require more than the usual amount of attention by Bank management.Industry conditions may be adverse or weak.The borrower's ability to meet current payment schedules may be questionable, even though interest and principal are being paid as agreed. Heavy reliance has been placed on the collateral.Profits, if any, are interspersed with losses.Management is "one man" orineffective or there is no plan for management succession.Expectations of a loan loss are not immediate; however, if present trends continue, a loan loss could be expected. 5. Substandard - Loans in this category possess weaknesses that jeopardize the ultimate collection of total outstandings.These weaknesses require close supervision by Bank management.Current financial statements are unavailable and the loan is inadequately protected by the collateral pledged. 6. Doubtful - Loans with the same weaknesses inherent in the substandard classification and where collection or liquidation in full is highly questionable.It is likely that the loan will not be collected in full and the Bank will suffer some loss which is not quantifiable at the time of review. 7. Loss - Loans considered uncollectable and of such little value that their continuance as an active asset is not warranted.Loans in this category are charged off to the Bank's loan loss reserve.Any accrued interest is backed out of income. 16 The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indictor at June30, 2015 : The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indictor at December31, 2014 : 17 Impaired Loans Disclosures Loans are considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is determined that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan contract, including scheduled interest payments.When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, it is also considered to be impaired.Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when: (1) the full collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain or (2) they are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal payments unless the loans are both well secured and in the process of collection. The following tables summarize the distribution of the allowance for loan losses and loans receivable by loan class and impairment method at June30, 2015 and December31, 2014 : Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of June30, 2015 Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of December31, 2014 18 The activity in the allowance for loan loss by loan class for the six months ended June30, 2015 and 2014 was as follow s: (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Residential Real Estate Consumer Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2014 $1,215 $1,761 $2,393 $896 $197 $129 $2 $332 $6,925 Provision charged (credited) to operations (98 ) 62 (4 ) 152 13 (13 ) - 388 500 Loans charged off - (62 ) - - - - - - (62 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - - - - - 1 - - 1 Balance - March31, 2015 $1,117 $1,761 $2,389 $1,048 $210 $117 $2 $720 $7,364 Provision charged (credited) to operations (27 ) (81 ) 49 71 (8 ) 3 (1 ) (6 ) - Loans charged off - (26 ) - - - - - - (26 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 5 7 - - 1 - - 13 Balance - June30, 2015 $1,090 $1,659 $2,445 $1,119 $202 $121 $1 $714 $7,351 (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Residential Real Estate Consumer Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2013 $1,205 $1,272 $3,022 $585 $165 $109 $2 $679 $7,039 Provision charged (credited) to operations 60 454 114 (63 ) 17 (16 ) (1 ) (65 ) 500 Loans charged off - (511 ) - - - - - - (511 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 3 - - - - - - 3 Balance - March31, 2014 $1,265 $1,218 $3,136 $522 $182 $93 $1 $614 $7,031 Provision charged (credited) to operations (315 ) 4,040 471 388 (9 ) (1 ) - (474 ) 4,100 Loans charged off - (3,714 ) - - - - - - (3,714 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 1 - - - - - - 1 Balance - June30, 2014 $950 $1,545 $3,607 $910 $173 $92 $1 $140 $7,418 When a loan is identified as impaired, the measurement of impairment is based on the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, except when the sole remaining source of repayment for the loan is the liquidation of the collateral.In such cases, the current fair value of the collateral less selling costs is used.If the value of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, the impairment is recognized through an allowance estimate or a charge to the allowance. 19 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) June30, 2015 20 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) December31, 2014 21 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) 22 Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans Purchased Credit-Impaired loans ("PCI") are loans acquired at a discount that are due in part to credit quality. The following table presents additional information regarding acquired credit-impaired loans at June30, 2015 and December31, 2014 : There was a change in the expected cash flows on one PCI loan with a balance of $206,000 at June 30, 2015.An allowance for loan losses in the amount of $38,000 has been recorded for this acquired loan as of June30, 2015 . Changes in accretable discount for acquired credit-impaired loans for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 and June30, 2014 were as follows: ` Consumer Mortgage Loans Secured by Residential Real Estate in Process of Foreclosure The following table summarizes the recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans secured by residential real estate in process of foreclosure: In the normal course of business, the Bank may consider modifying loan terms for various reasons. These reasons may include as a retention strategy to compete in the current interest rate environment or as a re-amortization or extension of a loan term to better match the loan's repayment stream with the borrower's cash flow. A modified loan would be considered a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR") if the Bank grants a concession to a borrower and has determined that the borrower is troubled (i.e., experiencing financial difficulties). If the Bank restructures a loan to a troubled borrower, the loan terms (i.e., interest rate, payment, amortization period and maturity date) may be modified in various ways to enable the borrower to cover the modified debt service payments based on current financial statements and cash flow adequacy. If a borrower's hardship is thought to be temporary, then modified terms may only be offered for that time period. Where possible, the Bank would attempt to obtain additional collateral and/or secondary repayment sources at the time of the restructuring in order to put the Bank in the best possible position if the borrower is not able to meet the modified terms. The Bank will not offer modified terms if it believes that modifying the loan terms will only delay an inevitable permanent default. In evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, applicable guidance requires that a creditor must separately conclude that the restructuring constitutes a concession and the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties. There were no loans modified that were TDRs in the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 . For the year ended December31, 2014 , there were 3 loans with a recorded investment of $162,000 that were modified as TDRs.There were no troubled debt restructurings that 23 subsequently defaulted within twelve months of restructuring during the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 and the year ended December31, 2014 . 24 (6) Share-Based Compensation The Company's share-based incentive plans ("Stock Plans") authorize the issuance of an aggregate of 512,736 shares of the Company's common stock (as adjusted for stock dividends) pursuant to awards that may be granted in the form of stock options to purchase common stock ("Options") and awards of shares of common stock ("Stock Awards").The purpose of the Stock Plans is to attract and retain personnel for positions of substantial responsibility and to provide additional incentive to certain officers, directors, employees and other persons to promote the success of the Company.Under the Stock Plans, options have a term of ten years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination in certain circumstances.Options are granted with an exercise price at the then fair market value of the Company's common stock.The grant date fair value is calculated using the Black Scholes option valuation model. As of June30, 2015 , there were 314,590 shares of common stock available for future grants under the Stock Plans, of which 268,390 shares are available for future grants under the 2013 Equity Incentive Plan and 46,200 shares are available for future grant under the 2015 Directors Stock Plan. Stock-based compensation expense related to options was $23,000 and $70,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Transactions under the Stock Plans during the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 are summarized as follows: The fair value of each option and the significant weighted average assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the options granted for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 are as follows: (1)To date, the Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock. As of June30, 2015 , there was approximately $88,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option-based compensation arrangements granted under the Company's stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over the next four years . 25 The following table summarizes the activity in non-vested restricted shares for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 : The value of restricted shares is based upon the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. The shares generally vest over a 4 year service period with compensation expense recognized on a straight-line basis. Stock-based compensation expense related to stock grants was $303,000 for each of the six months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. As of June30, 2015 , there was approximately $1.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock grants.Compensation costs related to non-vested stock grants are recognized over four years from the date of grant. (7) Benefit Plans The Bank has a 401(k) plan which covers substantially all employees with six months or more of service. The 401(k) plan permits all eligible employees to make contributions to the plan up to the IRS salary deferral limit. The Bank's contributions to the 401(k) plan are expensed as incurred. The Company also provides retirement benefits to certain employees under supplemental executive retirement plans.The plans are unfunded and the Company accrues actuarially determined benefit costs over the estimated service period of the employees in the plan.The Company recognizes the over-funded or under-funded status of a defined benefit post-retirement plan as an asset or liability in itsbalance sheetand recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur, through comprehensive income. In connection with the benefit plans, the Bank has life insurance policies on the lives of its executives, directors and divisional officers. The Bank is the owner and beneficiary of the policies. The cash surrender values of the policies total approximately $21.3 million and $21.2 million at June30, 2015 and December31, 2014 , respectively. The components of net periodic expense for the Company's supplemental executive retirement plans for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: 26 (8) Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) is the total of (1) net income (loss), and (2) all other changes in equity from non-shareholder sources, which are referred to as other comprehensive income (loss).The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and the related tax effects, are as follows: Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows and are presented net of tax: 27 28 (9) Recent Accounting Pronouncements ASU Update 2015-01 (Subtopic 225-20): Simplifying Income Statement Presentation by Eliminating the Concept of Extraordinary Items. In January 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-01, Simplifying Income Statement Presentation by Eliminating the Concept of Extraordinary Items, to eliminate the concept of extraordinary items from U.S. GAAP.The presentation and disclosure guidance for items that are unusual in nature or occur infrequently will be retained and will be expanded to include items that are both unusual in nature and infrequently occurring. ASU 2015-01 eliminates the requirement in Subtopic 225-20 to consider whether an underlying event or transaction is extraordinary and if so, to separately present the item in the income statement, net of tax, after income from continuing operations.Items that are either unusual in nature or infrequently occurring will continue to be reported as a separate component of income from continuing operations.For all entities (public and private), the ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015.Early adoption is permitted provided that the guidance is applied from the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.The Company does not expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU 2014-9 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-9, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." The objective of this amendment is to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP.This update affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of non-financial assets unless those contracts are in the scope of other standards.On July 9, 2015, the FASB decided to delay the effective date of the new revenue standard by one year. The new revenue standard will be effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company does not anticipate a material impact to the consolidated financial statements related to this guidance. 29 (10) Fair Value Disclosures U.S. GAAP has established a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation methods used to measure fair value.The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical unrestricted assets or liabilities. Level 2: Quoted prices in markets that are not active, or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (i.e., supported with little or no market activity). An asset's or liability's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. A description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy, is set forth below.These valuation methodologies were applied to all of the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value. In general, fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available.If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters.Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and counterparty creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters.Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time.The Company's valuation methodologies may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future values.While management believes the Company's valuation methodologies are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Securities Available for Sale .Securities classified as available for sale are reported at fair value utilizing quoted market prices on nationally recognized exchanges (Level 1) or by using Level 2 inputs.For Level 2 securities, the Company obtains fair value measurements from an independent pricing service.The fair value measurements consider observable data that may include dealer quotes, market spreads, cash flows, the U.S. Treasury yield curve, live trading levels, trade execution data, market consensus prepayments speeds, credit information and the security's terms and conditions, among other things. Impaired loans. Loans included in the following table are those which the Company has measured and recognized impairment, generally based on the fair value of the loan's collateral.Fair value is generally determined based upon independent third party appraisals of the collateral or discounted cash flows based on the expected proceeds.These assets are included as Level 3 fair values, based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements.The fair value consists of the loan balances less specific valuation allowances. Other Real Estate Owned. Foreclosed properties are adjusted to fair value less estimated selling costs at the time of foreclosure in preparation for transfer from portfolio loans to other real estate owned ("OREO"), establishing a new accounting basis. The Company subsequently adjusts the fair value on the OREO utilizing Level 3 inputs on a non-recurring basis to reflect partial write-downs based on the observable market price, current appraised value of the asset or other estimates of fair value. 30 The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis segregated by the level of the valuation inputs within the fair value hierarchy utilized to measure fair value: Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment).Assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, at June30, 2015 and December31, 2014 were as follows: Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at June30, 2015 consisted of 2 loans having an aggregate recorded investment of $392,000 and specific loan loss allowances of $75,000 .Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at December 31, 2014 consisted of 8 loans having an aggregate balance of $4.0 million with a specific loan loss allowance of $700,000 and 3 loans totaling $578,000 which were charged down during the year. 31 The following table presents additional qualitative information about assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, and for which the Company has utilized Level 3 inputs to determine fair value: (1) Fair value is generally determined through independent appraisals of the underlying collateral, which generally include various Level 3 inputs which are not identifiable. (2) Includes qualitative adjustments by management and estimated liquidation expenses. The fair value of other real estate owned was determined using appraisals, which may be discounted based on management's review and changes in market conditions. The following is a summary of fair value versus carrying value of all of the Company's financial instruments.For the Company and the Bank, as for most financial institutions, the bulk of its assets and liabilities are considered financial instruments.Many of the financial instruments lack an available trading market as characterized by a willing buyer and willing seller engaging in an exchange transaction.Therefore, significant estimations and present value calculations were used for the purpose of this note.Changes in assumptions could significantly affect these estimates. Estimated fair values have been determined by using the best available data and an estimation methodology suitable for each category of financial instruments as follows: Cash and Cash Equivalents, Accrued Interest Receivable and Accrued Interest Payable (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accrued interest receivable and accrued interest payable approximate fair value. Securities Held to Maturity (Carried at Amortized Cost). The fair values of securities held to maturity are determined in the same manner as for securities available for sale. Loans Held For Sale (Carried at Lower of Aggregated Cost or Fair Value). The fair values of loans held for sale are determined, when possible, using quoted secondary market prices. If no such quoted market prices exist, fair values are determined using quoted prices for similar loans, adjusted for the specific attributes of the loans. Gross Loans Receivable (Carried at Cost). The fair values of loans, excluding impaired loans subject to specific loss reserves, are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses that use market rates at the balance sheet date that reflect the credit and interest rate-risk inherent in the loans.Projected future cash flows are calculated based upon contractual maturity or call dates, projected repayments and prepayments of principal.Generally, for variable rate loans that re-price frequently and with no significant change in credit risk, fair values are based on carrying values. Deposit Liabilities (Carried at Cost). The fair values disclosed for demand deposits (e.g., interest and non-interest demand and savings accounts) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts).Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered in the market on certificates of deposit to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits. Borrowings and Subordinated Debentures (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values. The fair values of long-term FHLB advances and subordinated debentures are estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, based on quoted or estimated interest rates for new borrowings with similar credit risk characteristics, terms and remaining maturity. 32 The estimated fair values and carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were as follows: Loan commitments and standby letters of credit as of June30, 2015 and December31, 2014 were based on fees charged for similar agreements; accordingly, the estimated fair value of loan commitments and standby letters of credit was nominal. 33 Item 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The purpose of this discussion and analysis of the operating results and financial condition at June30, 2015 is intended to help readers analyze the accompanying financial statements, notes and other supplemental information contained in this document. Results of operations for the three and six month periods ended June30, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of results to be attained for any other period. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, notes and tables included elsewhere in this report and Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Form 10-K (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation) for the year ended December31, 2014 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 26, 2015. General Throughout the following sections, the "Company" refers to 1st Constitution Bancorp and, as the context requires, its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1st Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1st Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., LLC, 204 South Newman Street Corp. and 249 New York Avenue, LLC.1st Constitution Capital Trust II ("Trust II"), a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary. The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Company was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in February 1999 for the purpose of acquiring all of the issued and outstanding stock of the Bank, a full service commercial bank which began operations in August 1989, and thereby enabling the Bank to operate within a bank holding company structure. The Company became an active bank holding company on July 1, 1999. The Bank is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Other than its ownership interest in the Bank, the Company currently conducts no other significant business activities. The Bank operates nineteen branches and manages an investment portfolio through its subsidiary, 1st Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc.FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of the Bank, is used by the Bank to manage and dispose of repossessed real estate. Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, was created in May 2006 to issue trust preferred securities to assist the Company in raising additional capital. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements.When used in this and in future filings by the Company with the SEC, in the Company's press releases and in oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer of the Company, the words or phrases "will," "will likely result," "could," "anticipates," "believes," "continues," "expects," "plans," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimated," "project" or "outlook" or similar expressions (including confirmations by an authorized executive officer of the Company of any such expressions made by a third party with respect to the Company) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Companycautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, each of which speaks only as of the date made.Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from those results expressed or implied, include, but are not limited to, those listed under "Business", "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 filed with the SEC on March 26, 2015, such as the overall economy and the interest rate environment; the ability of customers to repay their obligations; the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; competition; significant changes in accounting, tax or regulatory practices and requirements; certain interest rate risks; risks associated with investments in mortgage-backed securities;risks associated with speculative construction lending; and risks associated with safeguarding information technology systems. Although management has taken certain steps to mitigate any negative effect of the aforementioned items, significant unfavorable changes could severely impact the assumptions used and could have an adverse effect on profitability. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements, except as required by law. 34 Recent Developments On February 20, 2015 the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2015, which was paid on April 6, 2015.As appropriate, common shares and per common share data presented for 2015 and 2014 have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. Merger of Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company with and into the Bank in 2014 On February 7, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company, a New Jersey state-chartered commercial bank ("Rumson"), which merged with and into the Bank, with the Bank as the surviving entity. The merger agreement among the Company, the Bank and Rumson (the "Merger Agreement") provided that the shareholders of Rumson would receive, at their election, for each outstanding share of Rumson common stock that they own at the effective time of the merger, either 0.7772 shares of the Company common stock or $7.50 in cash, subject to proration as described in the Merger Agreement, so that 60% of the aggregate merger consideration consisted of cash and 40% consisted of shares of the Company's common stock. The Company issued an aggregate of 1,019,223 shares of its common stock and paid $14.8 million in cash in the transaction. The merger was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting and accordingly, assets acquired, liabilities assumed and consideration exchanged were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Rumson's results of operations have been included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income since February 7, 2014. 35 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 Compared to Three and Six Months Ended June 30, 2014 Summary The Company reported net income of $2.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, a 27% increase compared to Adjusted Net Income (as defined below) of $1.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014. Net income per diluted share was $0.30 for the second quarter of 2015, a 25% increase compared to Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share of $0.24 for the second quarter of 2014. The Company reported net income of $4.6 million or $0.60 per diluted share for the six month period ended June 30, 2015 compared to Adjusted Net Income of $3.4 million or Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share of $0.45 for the six month period ended June 30, 2014. Net loss and net loss per diluted share as reported were $440,000 and $0.06, respectively, for the second quarter of 2014 and net income and net income per diluted share as reported were $202,000 and $0.03, respectively, for the six months ended June 30, 2014. Adjusted Net Income excludes the after-tax effect of merger related expenses that were incurred in the first and second quarters of 2014 in connection with the merger of Rumson with and into the Bank on February 7, 2014 and the provision for loan losses related to the full charge-off of a loan participation due to fraudulent misrepresentations by the borrower and its principals recorded in the second quarter of 2014. The significant increase in net income for the second quarter of 2015 compared to Adjusted Net Income for the second quarter of 2014 was due primarily to the $1.0 million increase in net interest income to $9.4 million, which was driven by the growth of the Bank's loan portfolio in 2015. Non-interest income for the second quarter of 2015 increased $358,000 to $1.6 million due to higher gains from the sales of residential mortgages and SBA guaranteed commercial loans. The significant increase in net income for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to Adjusted Net Income for the six months ended June 30, 2014 was due primarily to the $2.7 million increase in net interest income to $18.0 million, which was driven by the growth of the Bank's loan portfolio in 2015. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share are non-GAAP measures. The following table provides a reconciliation of thesenon-GAAP measures to net income and net income per diluted share as reported: (1) The Company used these non-GAAP financial measures, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share, because the Company believes that it is useful for the users of the financial information to understand the effect on net 36 income of the merger related expenses incurred in the merger with Rumson and the large provision for loan losses recorded as a result of the loss on a loan due to the fraudulent misrepresentations of a borrower and its principals.Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures improve the comparability of the current period results with the results of prior periods.The Company cautions that the non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the Company's U.S. GAAP results. (2) The amount represents the full charge-off of the loan that was subject to fraudulent misrepresentation by a borrower and its principals. (3) Tax effected at an income tax rate of 39.94%, less the impact of non-deductible merger expenses. (4) The adjustments to the reported loss for the three month period ended June 30, 2014 result in adjusted net income. Accordingly, diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive share equivalents for purposes of computing Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share. (5) Adjusted Return on Assets and Adjusted Return on Equity exclude the after-tax effect of the merger-related expenses and the fraud related loan loss provision in 2014. 37 Second Quarter Highlights Net interest income was $9.4 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $8.5 million in the first quarter of 2015 and $8.4 million in the second quarter of 2014. The net interest margin for each of these periods was 4.19%, 3.96% and 3.89%, respectively. During the second quarter of 2015, the total loan portfolio increased $48.3 million, or 6.8%, to $758.5 million at June 30, 2015.Mortgage warehouse lines outstanding increased $46.7 million to $279.7 million at June 30, 2015, reflecting higher levels of residential mortgage originations by the Bank's mortgage banking customers due to the seasonal home buying market and favorable residential mortgage interest rates. Approximately 52% of the $1.1 billion of funding activity during the second quarter was for the purchase of homes and home purchase loans represented 62% of the outstanding mortgage warehouse loans at June 30, 2015. The loan to asset ratio increased to 72% at June 30, 2015 compared to 68% at December 31, 2014 and 64% at June 30, 2014. No provision for loan losses was recorded for the second quarter of 2015 due to the Bank's stable loan quality, the insignificant level of net-charge offs and a reduction in the Bank's loan loss reserve factors based on management's assessment of strengthening economic conditions in the Bank's markets and stable loan quality trends. SBA loan sales were $5.2 million and generated gains on sales of loans of $518,000, and SBA commercial loan originations were $3.6 million during the second quarter of 2015. During the second quarter of 2015, the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation originated $43.3 million of residential mortgages and sold $43.8 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains from the sales of loans of $314,000. At June 30, 2015, the pipeline of residential mortgage loans in process was $68.8 million. The Company's efficiency ratio for the second quarter of 2015 was 67.4% compared to 61.7% for the first quarter of 2015 and 66.5% for the second quarter of 2014, excluding the effect of the merger expenses. The write-down of one OREO property and related expenses and higher collection and asset recovery expenses impacted the efficiency ratio during the second quarter of 2015. Earnings Analysis The Bank's results of operations depend primarily on net interest income, which is primarily affected by the market interest rate environment, the shape of the U.S. Treasury yield curve, and the difference between the yield on interest-earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities.Other factors that may affect the Bank's operating results are general and local economic and competitive conditions, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. Net Interest Income Net interest income, the Company's largest and most significant component of operating income, is the difference between interest and fees earned on loans and other earning assets and interest paid on deposits and borrowed funds. This component represented 85.3% of the Company's net revenues (defined as net interest income plus non-interest income) for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 compared to 86.9% of net revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2014. Net interest income also depends upon the relative amount of average interest-earning assets, average interest-bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned or paid on them, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, net interest income represented 83.5% of the Company's net revenues compared to 84.1% of net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The following tables set forth the Company's consolidated average balances of assets and liabilities and shareholders' equity as well as interest income and expense on related items, and the Company's average yield or rate for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2015 and 2014. The average rates are derived by dividing interest income and expense by the average balance of assets and liabilities, respectively. 38 (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. (4) Tax- equivalent basis. 39 (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and includes the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. (4) Tax- equivalent basis. 40 Three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to three months ended June 30, 2014 The Company's net interest income increased on a tax-equivalent basis by $1.0 million, or 11.6%, to $9.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015 from $8.7 million reported for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The increase in the Company's net interest income for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the comparable 2014 period was due primarily to the growth of the loan portfolio, the higher proportion of average loans to average assets, which generated the higher yield on earning assets, and lower rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The net interest margin (on a tax-equivalent basis), which is net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets, was 4.19% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to 3.89% the three months ended June 30, 2014. Average interest-earning assets increased by $30.3 million, or 3.4%, to $923.9 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 from $893.6 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2014.The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, increased 28 basis points to 4.70% for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 when compared to 4.42% for the three month period ended June 30, 2014 due primarily to the increase in the average balance of the loan portfolio in the quarter ended June 30, 2015. The growth of the average balance of the loan portfolio in the quarter ended June 30, 2015 was due primarily to the growth in Mortgage Warehouse, Construction and Commercial Real Estate loans compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2014. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased by $11.6 million, or 1.6%, to $724.9 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 from $713.3 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2014 due primarily to increases in Money Market and NOW Accounts and Borrowed Funds, which were partially offset by decreases in Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit. Overall, the cost of total interest-bearing liabilities decreased 3 basis points to 0.64% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 from 0.67% for the three months ended June 30, 2014. Six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to six months ended June 30, 2014 For the six months ended June 30, 2015, the Company's net interest income increased on a tax-equivalent basis by $2.6 million, or 16.6%, to $18.5 million compared to $15.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014. This increase was due primarily to the growth of the loan portfolio, an increase in the average yield on interest-earning assets and lower rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, the net interest margin was 4.09% compared to 3.74% for the six months ended June 30, 2014. Average interest-earning assets increased by $56.5 million, or 6.6%, to $912.1 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2015 from $855.5 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2014. The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, increased 32 basis points to 4.60% for the six month period ended June 30, 2015 compared to 4.28% for the six month ended June 30, 2014 primarily due to the $165.1 million increase in the average balance of the loan portfolio during the six months ended June 30, 2015. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased by $34.4 million or 5.0% to $716.3 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2015 compared to $681.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014 due primarily to increases in Money Market and NOW Accounts and Borrowed Funds. The total cost of interest-bearing liabilities decreased by 3 basis points to 0.65% for the six months ended June 30, 2015 from 0.68% for the six months ended June 30, 2014. 41 Provision for Loan Losses Three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to three months ended June 30, 2014 Management considers a complete review of the following specific factors in determining the provisions for loan losses: historical losses by loan category, the level of non-accrual loans and problem loans as identified through internal review and classification, collateral values, and the growth and size of the loan portfolio. In addition to these factors, management takes into consideration current economic conditions and the local real estate market conditions.On the basis of this evaluation process, the insignificant level of net charge-offs, the Bank's stable loan quality trends over the last four quarters and management's judgment that the loan loss reserve factors should be reduced to reflect these trends, the Company did not record a provision for loan losses for the three months ended June 30, 2015. The loan loss reserve factors were reduced by five basis points (0.05%) across all loan portfolio segments. The lower loan loss reserve factors reduced the provision for loan losses for the second quarter of 2015 by approximately $320,000. The provision for loan losses was $4.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014 and included $3.7 million for the full charge-off and replenishment of the allowance for the loss on a loan due to the fraudulent misrepresentations of a borrower and its principals. At June 30, 2015, non-performing loans decreased by $210,000, or 4.3%, to $4.6 million from $4.8 million at December 31, 2014 and the ratio of non-performing loans to total loans was 0.61% at June 30, 2015 compared to 0.74% at December31, 2014. Six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to six months ended June 30, 2014 The provision for loan losses was $500,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $4.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The lower provision for loan losses for the first six months of 2015 reflected a significantly lower level of net charge-offs of $74,000 compared to net charge-offs of $4.2 million for the first six months of 2014. The higher level of net charge-offs in the 2014 period included $3.7 million of net charge-offs related to the loss on a loan due to fraudulent misrepresentations described above. Non-performing loans declined to $4.6 million at June 30, 2015 compared to $4.8 million at December 31, 2014 and $8.3 million at June 30, 2014. Non-Interest Income Three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to three months ended June 30, 2014 Total non-interest income for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was $1.6 million, an increase of $358,000, or 28.4%, compared to non-interest income of $1.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014. This increase was due principally to higher gains on the sale of loans. Service charge revenues decreased to $190,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 from $267,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014. This decrease was the result of a lower volume of uncollected funds and overdraft fees collected on deposit accounts during the second quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of 2014. Gain on sales of loans originated for sale increased by $565,000 to $832,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $267,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014.The Bank sells both loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration ("SBA") and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market.SBA loan sales were $5.2 million and generated gains on sales of loans of $518,000, and SBA commercial loan originations were $3.6 million during the second quarter of 2015. Gains on the sale of SBA loans were $156,000 in the second quarter of 2014. During the second quarter of 2015, the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation originated $43.3 million of residential mortgages and sold $43.8 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains from the sales of loans of $314,000 compared to gains of $111,000 in the second quarter of 2014. At June 30, 2015, the pipeline of residential mortgage loans in process was $68.8 million. The current lower interest rate environment for mortgage loans resulted in higher demand for mortgage financings, which generated the higher volume of mortgage loan originations for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2014. Non-interest income also includes income from bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI"), which amounted to $143,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $149,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box rental fees, wire transfer service fees and Automated Teller Machine fees for non-Bank customers. The other income component of non-interest 42 income decreased to $453,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $577,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014 due to lower transaction activity. Six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to six months ended June 30, 2014 Total non-interest income for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was $3.5 million, an increase of $649,000, or 22.4%, compared to non-interest income of $2.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014. This increase was due principally to higher gains on the sale of loans. Service charge revenues decreased to $429,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 from $486,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. This decrease was the result of a lower volume of uncollected funds and overdraft fees collected on deposit accounts. Gain on sales of loans originated for sale increased by $872,000 to $1.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $1.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014.The Bank sells both loans guaranteed by the SBA and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market.SBA loan sales were $11.9 million and generated gains on sales of loans of $1.2 million. SBA commercial loan originations were $13.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2015. Gains on sales of SBA loans were $724,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation originated $78.5 million of residential mortgages and sold $77.7 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains from the sales of loans of $677,000. Gains on sales of residential mortgages were $283,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. Non-interest income also includes income from BOLI, which amounted to $276,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $278,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box rental fees, wire transfer service fees and Automated Teller Machine fees for non-Bank customers. The other income component of non-interest income decreased to $962,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $1.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014 due to lower transaction activity. Non-Interest Expense Non-interest expenses were $7.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, an increase of $1.0 million compared to $6.6 million for the second quarter of 2014, excluding the effect of the Rumson merger expense. Approximately $382,000 of the increase in non-interest expenses in the second quarter of 2015 reflected the write-down of one OREO property to the net realizable value of the contract for sale that was pending at June 30, 2015. The sale of this property was completed in July, 2015. Non-interest expenses were $14.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015, an increase of $1.7 million, or 13.9%, compared to $12.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014, excluding the effect of the Rumson merger expense. As explained above, $382,000 of the increase for the six months ended June 30, 2015 reflects the write-down of one OREO property and approximately $233,000 of the increase reflects the inclusion of the former Rumson operations for the entire first quarter of 2015 compared to only a portion of the first quarter of 2014. The following table presents the major components of non-interest expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014. 43 Three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to three months ended June 30, 2014 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, increased by $423,000, or 11.5%, to $4.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $3.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The increase in salaries and employee benefits for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was a result of an increase in the number of employees, regular merit increases and increased health care costs. Full time equivalent employees at June 30, 2015 increased to 181 as compared to 179 full time equivalent employees at June 30, 2014. Occupancy expenses increased by $20,000, or 2.4%, to $859,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $839,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014.The increase for the quarter ended June 30, 2015 compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2014 resulted primarily from an increase in building maintenance expense, which was partially offset by decreases in rent expense and leasehold depreciation expense. The cost of data processing services decreased slightly to $306,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 from $312,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014, reflecting the cost containment and operating scale obtained through the integration of the former Rumson operations. FDIC insurance expense decreased to $180,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $185,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014 primarily as a result of the lower assessment rate for FDIC insurance premiums. The assessment rate decreased during the second quarter of 2015 compared to 2014 due primarily to the lower level of charge-offs and non-performing assets and a higher ratio of net income before taxes to risk weighted assets in the second quarter of 2015 and the two immediately preceding quarters. Other real estate owned expenses increased by $318,000 to $416,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $98,000 for the three months ended June 30 2014 primarily due to the write-down of $382,000 of one OREO property to the net realizable value of a contract for sale that was pending at June 30, 2015. At June 30, 2015, the Company held three properties with an aggregate value of $5.3 million as other real estate owned compared to one property with an aggregate value of $1.9 million at June 30, 2014. Regulatory, professional and other fees increased by $283,000, or 61.5%, to $743,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $460,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014 due to higher legal fees incurred in pursuing the potential recovery of the loss on a loan that was a result of fraudulent misrepresentations by the borrower and its principals. Other expenses decreased by $14,000 to $541,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $555,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2014 as a result of decreases in correspondent bank fees, maintenance agreements and ATM operating expenses.All other expenses are also comprised of a variety of operating expenses, as well as expenses associated with lending activities. 44 Six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to six months ended June 30, 2014 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, increased by $776,000, or 10.7%, to $8.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $7.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014. Approximately $115,000 of the increase was due to the inclusion of the former Rumson operations for the entire first quarter of 2015 compared to a portion of the first quarter of 2014. The balance of the increase in salaries and employee benefits was a result of an increase in the number of employees, regular merit increases and increased health care costs. Occupancy expenses increased by $135,000, or 8.1%, to $1.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $1.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014.The increase in occupancy expense resulted primarily from an increase in building maintenance expense related to the costs of the five properties acquired in the Rumson merger in the first quarter of 2014, which was partially offset by decreases in rent expense and leasehold depreciation expense. The cost of data processing services decreased slightly to $625,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 from $628,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014, reflecting the cost containment and operating scale obtained through the integration of the former Rumson operations. FDIC insurance expense increased to $370,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $335,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014 primarily as a result of the increase in assets at June 30, 2015 compared to June 30, 2014. Other real estate owned expenses increased by $373,000 to $513,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $140,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014 primarily due to the write-down of one OREO property of $382,000 to the net realizable value of a contract for sale that was pending at June 30, 2015. Regulatory, professional and other fees increased by $353,000, or 53%, to $1.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $667,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014 due to higher legal fees incurred in pursuing the potential recovery of the loss on a loan that was a result of fraudulent misrepresentations by the borrower and its principals. Other expenses decreased $20,000 to $948,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $968,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014 as a result of decreases in correspondent bank fees, maintenance agreements and ATM operating expenses.All other expenses are also comprised of a variety of operating expenses, as well as expenses associated with lending activities. Income Taxes Three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to three months ended June 30, 2014 Pre-tax income increased to $3.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to a pre-tax loss of $1.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The Company recorded income tax expense of $1.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 32.4% compared to an income tax benefit of $728,000 and a net tax benefit rate of 62.3% for the three months ended June 30, 2014. The increase in income tax expense for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to the significantly higher amount of pre-tax income in the period compared to the net loss before taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2014.The high effective tax benefit rate for the three months ended June 30, 2014 was due primarily to the amount of tax-exempt income relative to the pre-tax loss for that quarter. Six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to six months ended June 30, 2014 Pre-tax income increased to $6.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to a pre-tax loss of $480,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The Company recorded income tax expense of $2.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 32.1% compared to an income tax benefit of $682,000 and a net tax benefit rate of 142% for the six months ended June 45 30, 2014. The high effective tax benefit rate for the six months ended June 30, 2014 was due primarily to the amount of tax exempt income relative to the pre-tax loss for the period. Financial Condition June 30, 2015 Compared with December 31, 2014 Total consolidated assets at June 30, 2015 were $1.05 billion, representing an increase of $90.1 million, or 9.4%, from total consolidated assets of $956.8 million at December 31, 2014.The increase in assets was primarily attributable to a $104.2 million increase in loans, which was primarily funded by a $105.6 million increase in FHLB borrowings. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at June 30, 2015 totaled $16.4 million compared to $14.5 million at December 31, 2014, an increase of $1.8 million or 12.5%. To the extent that the Bank did not utilize the funds for loan originations or securities purchases, the cash inflows accumulated in cash and cash equivalents. Loans Held for Sale Loans held for sale at June 30, 2015 were $9.2 million compared to $8.4 million at December 31, 2014. As indicated in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the amount of mortgage loans originated for sale was $78.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $39.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014. The decrease in long-term market interest rates that occurred during late 2014 and continued into 2015 increased the demand for mortgage loan financings during the first six months of 2015.The amount of loans held for sale varies from period to period due to changes in the amount and timing of sales of residential mortgages. 46 Investment Securities Investment securities represented approximately 20% of total assets at June 30, 2015 and approximately 23% of total assets at December 31, 2014. Total investment securities decreased $16.6 million, or 7.4%, to $207.2 million at June 30, 2015 from $223.8 million at December 31, 2014. Purchases of investment securities totaled $14.6 million during the six months ended June 30, 2015, and proceeds from calls, maturities and repayments totaled $30.1 million during the period. Securities available for sale are investments that may be sold in response to changing market and interest rate conditions or for other business purposes.Activity in this portfolio is undertaken primarily to manage liquidity and interest rate risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create more economically attractive returns.At June 30, 2015, securities available for sale totaled $80.6 million, an increase of $415,000, or 0.5%, compared to securities available for sale totaling $80.2 million at December 31, 2014. At June 30, 2015, the securities available for sale portfolio had net unrealized losses of $192,000 compared to net unrealized gains of $427,000 at December 31, 2014.These unrealized gains (losses) were reflected, net of tax, in shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Securities held to maturity, which are carried at amortized historical cost, are investments for which there is the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity.At June 30, 2015, securities held to maturity were $126.7 million, a decrease of $16.9 million from $143.6 million at December 31, 2014.The fair value of the held to maturity portfolio at June 30, 2015 was $130.3 million. Loans The loan portfolio, which represents the Bank's largest asset, is a significant source of both interest and fee income. Elements of the loan portfolio are subject to differing levels of credit and interest rate risk. The Bank's primary lending focus continues to be mortgage warehouse lines, construction loans, commercial loans, owner-occupied commercial mortgage loans and commercial real estate loans on income producing assets. The following table represents the components of the loan portfolio at June 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. The loan portfolio increased by $104.2 million, or 15.9%, to $758.5 million at June 30, 2015 compared to $654.3 million at December 31, 2014. Mortgage warehouse lines outstanding increased $100.5 million, reflecting higher levels of residential mortgage originations by the Bank's mortgage banking customers that was due to the seasonal home buying market and favorable residential mortgage market interest rates. The growth of this portfolio segment was the primary driver of the increase in the loan portfolio. The Bank's Mortgage Warehouse Funding Group offers revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to finance the origination of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association.On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market.Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment.Additionally, customers of the warehouse line of credit are required to maintain deposit relationships with the Bank that, on average, represent 10% to 12% of the loan balances. 47 Commercial business loans decreased slightly during the first six months of 2015. Commercial loans consist primarily of loans to small and middle market businesses and are typically working capital loans used to finance inventory, receivables or equipment needs. These loans are generally secured by business assets of the commercial borrower. Commercial real estate loans increased $7.3 million, or 3.7% during the first six months of 2015. Commercial real estate loans consistprimarily of loans to businesses collateralized by real estate employed in the business and loans to finance income producing properties. Construction loans increased $2.7 million, or 2.8%, during the first six months of 2015. Construction financing is provided to businesses to expand their facilities and operations and to real estate developers for the acquisition, development and construction of residential properties primarily and income producing properties secondarily. First mortgage construction loans are made to developers and builders primarily for single family homes or smaller multi-family buildings (less than ten units) that are presold, or are to be sold or leased on a speculative basis. The Bank lends to developers and builders with established relationships, successful operating histories and sound financial resources. The Bank also finances the construction of individual, owner-occupied single family homes. These loans are made to qualified individual borrowers and are generally supported by a take-out commitment from a permanent lender. The ability of the Company to enter into larger loan relationships and management's philosophy of relationship banking are key factors in the Company's strategy for loan growth.The ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and recovery of the carrying amount of real estate are subject to changes in the economic environment and real estate market in the Company's market region. Non-Performing Assets Non-performing assets consist of non-performing loans and other real estate owned. Non-performing loans are composed of (1) loans on a non-accrual basis and (2) loans which are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest and principal payments but which have not been classified as non-accrual. Included in non-accrual loans are loans whose terms have been restructured to provide a reduction or deferral of interest and/or principal because of deterioration in the financial position of the borrower and which have not performed in accordance with the restructured terms. The Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans is that generally, loans are placed on a non-accrual status when they are 90 days past due, unless these loans are well secured and in the process of collection or, regardless of the past due status of the loan, when management determines that the complete recovery of principal or interest is in doubt.Consumer loans are generally charged off after they become 120 days past due.Subsequent payments on loans in non-accrual status are credited to income only if collection of principal is not in doubt. Non-accrual loans increased $107,000 to $4.6 million at June 30, 2015 from $4.5 million at December 31, 2014.The major segments of non-accrual loans consist of commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans, which are in the process of collection.The table below sets forth non-performing assets and risk elements in the Bank's portfolio for the periods indicated. Non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.61% at June 30, 2015 from 0.74% at December 31, 2014 principally due to the increase in total loans.Loan quality is considered to be sound. This was accomplished through quality loan underwriting, a 48 proactive approach to loan monitoring and aggressive workout strategies. Non-performing assets decreased by $592,000 to $10.0 million at June 30, 2015 from $10.6 million at December 31, 2014.Other real estate owned totaled $5.3 million at June 30, 2015 compared to $5.7 million at December 31, 2014.At June 30, 2015, one OREO property with a carrying amount of $1.4 million was under contract for sale. The sale of the property was completed in July, 2015. At June 30, 2015, the Bank had ten loans totaling $4.5 million which were troubled debt restructurings.Three of these loans totaling $480,000 are included in the above table as non-accrual loans; the remaining seven loans totaling $4.0 million are considered performing. As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired in the Rumson merger with evidence of deteriorated credit quality of $2.0 million at June 30, 2015 were not classified as non-performing loans. Non-performing assets represented 0.96% of total assets at June 30, 2015 and 1.11% of total assets at December 31, 2014. Management takes a proactive approach in addressing delinquent loans. The Company's President and Chief Executive Officer meets weekly with all loan officers to review the status of credits past-due 10 days or more. An action plan is discussed for delinquent loans to determine the steps necessary to induce the borrower to cure the delinquency and restore the loan to a current status. Also, delinquency notices are system-generated when loans are five days past-due and again at 15 days past-due. In most cases, the Company's collateral is real estate. If the collateral is foreclosed upon, the real estate is carried at fair market value less the estimated selling costs. The amount, if any, by which the recorded amount of the loan exceeds the fair market value of the collateral, less estimated selling costs, is a loss which is charged to the allowance for loan losses at the time of foreclosure or repossession. Resolution of a past-due loan can be delayed if the borrower files a bankruptcy petition because a collection action cannot be continued unless the Company first obtains relief from the automatic stay provided by the bankruptcy code. Allowance for Loan Losses and Related Provision The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level sufficient to absorb estimated credit losses in the loan portfolio as of the date of the financial statements.The allowance for loan losses is a valuation reserve available for losses incurred or inherent in the loan portfolio and other extensions of credit.The determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is a critical accounting policy of the Company. The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. All, or part, of the principal balance of commercial and commercial real estate loans and construction loans are charged off against the allowance as soon as it is determined that the repayment of all, or part, of the principal balance is highly unlikely.Consumer loans are generally charged off no later than 120 days past due on a contractual basis, earlier in the event of bankruptcy, or if there 49 is an amount deemed uncollectible . Because all identified losses are charged off, no portion of the allowance for loan losses is restricted to any individual loan or groups of loans and the entire allowance is available to absorb any and all loan losses. Management reviews the adequacy of the allowance on at least a quarterly basis to ensure that the provision for loan losses has been charged against earnings in an amount necessary to maintain the allowance at a level that is adequate based on management's assessment of probable estimated losses. The Company's methodology for assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses consists of several key elements and is consistent with U.S. GAAP and interagency supervisory guidance.The allowance for loan losses methodology consists of two major components.The first component is an estimation of losses associated with individually identified impaired loans, which follows Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 310 (formerly SFAS 114).The second major component is an estimation of losses under ASC Topic 450 (formerly SFAS 5), which provides guidance for estimating losses on groups of loans with similar risk characteristics.The Company's methodology results in an allowance for loan losses which includes a specific reserve for impaired loans, an allocated reserve, and an unallocated portion. When analyzing groups of loans under ASC 450, the Bank follows the Interagency Policy Statement on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses.The methodology considers the Company's historical loss experience adjusted for changes in trends, conditions, and other relevant factors that affect repayment of the loans as of the evaluation date.These adjustment factors, known as qualitative factors, include: Delinquencies and nonaccruals Portfolio quality Concentration of credit Trends in volume of loans Quality of collateral Policy and procedures Experience, ability, and depth of management Economic trends national and local External factors competition, legal and regulatory The methodology includes the segregation of the loan portfolio into loan types with a further segregation into risk rating categories, such as special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss. This allows for an allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan type; however, the allowance is available to absorb any loan loss without restriction.Larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans representing significant individual credit exposures are evaluated individually through the internal loan review process.It is this process that produces the watch list.The borrower's overall financial condition, repayment sources, guarantors and value of collateral, if appropriate, are evaluated. Based on these reviews, an estimate of probable losses for the individual larger-balance loans is determined, whenever possible, and used to establish specific loan loss reserves.In general, for non-homogeneous loans not individually assessed and for homogeneous groups of loans, such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type, and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The watch list includes loans that are assigned a rating of special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss.Loans classified as special mention have potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention.If uncorrected, the potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects.Loans classified as substandard have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt.They include loans that are inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any.Loans classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in loans classified as substandard with the added characteristic that collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of current conditions and facts, is highly improbable.Loans rated as doubtful in whole, or in part, are placed in nonaccrual status.Loans classified as a loss are considered uncollectible and are charged-off against the allowance for loan losses. The specific allowance for impaired loans is established for specific loans which have been identified by management as being impaired. These loans are considered to be impaired primarily because the loans have not performed according to payment terms and there is reason to believe that repayment of the loan principal in whole, or in part, is unlikely. The specific portion of the allowance is the total amount of potential unconfirmed losses for these individual impaired loans. To assist in determining the fair value of loan collateral, the Company often utilizes independent third party qualified appraisal firms, which employ their own criteria and assumptions that may include occupancy rates, rental rates, and property expenses, among others. The second category of reserves consists of the allocated portion of the allowance.The allocated portion of the allowance is determined by taking pools of loans outstanding that have similar characteristics and applying historical loss experience for each pool.This estimate represents the potential unconfirmed losses within the portfolio. Individual loan pools are created for commercial and commercial real estate loans, construction loans, warehouse lines of credit, and various types of loans to individuals.The historical estimation for each loan pool is then adjusted to account for current conditions, current loan portfolio performance, loan policy or management changes, or any other qualitative factor which may cause future losses to deviate from historical levels. 50 The Company also maintains an unallocated allowance.The unallocated allowance is used to cover any factors or conditions which may cause a potential loan loss but are not specifically identifiable.It is prudent to maintain an unallocated portion of the allowance because no matter how detailed an analysis of potential loan losses is performed, these estimates by definition lack precision.Management must make estimates using assumptions and information that is often subjective and changing rapidly. The following discusses the risk characteristics of each of our loan portfolio segments-commercial, mortgage warehouse lines of credit, and consumer. Commercial The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans. Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values. Any one or a combination of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. Mortgage Warehouse Lines of Credit The Company's Mortgage Warehouse Unit provides revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and others. On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market. Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment. Additionally, customers of the warehouse lines of credit are required to maintain deposit relationships with the Bank that, on average, represent 10% to 12% of the loan balances. As a separate segment of the total portfolio, the warehouse loan portfolio is individually analyzed as a whole for allowance for loan loss purposes.Warehouse lines of credit are subject to the same inherent risks as other commercial lending, but the overall degree of risk differs. While the Company's loss experience with this type of lending has been non-existent since the product was introduced in 2008, there are other risks unique to this lending that still must be considered in assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. These unique risks may include, but are not limited to, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from the Bank, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of such mortgage bankers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under a warehouse line of credit, due to changes in interest rates during the time in warehouse, or (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans so originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker. These factors, along with the other qualitative factors such as economic trends, concentrations of credit, trends in the volume of loans, portfolio quality, delinquencies and nonaccruals, are also considered and may have positive or negative effects on the allocated allowance.The aggregate amount resulting from the application of these qualitative factors determines the overall risk for the portfolio and results in an allocated allowance for warehouse lines of credit. Consumer The Company's consumer loan segment is comprised of residential real estate loans, home equity loans and other loans to individuals. Individual loan pools are created for the various types of loans to individuals. In general, for homogeneous groups such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type, and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The Company considers the following credit quality indicators in assessing the risk in the loan portfolio: Consumer credit scores Internal credit risk grades Loan-to-value ratios Collateral Collection experience 51 The following table presents, for the periods indicated, an analysis of the allowance for loan losses and other related data. 52 The following table represents the allocation of the allowance for loan losses ("ALL") among the various categories of loans and certain other information as of June 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively.The allocation is made for analytical purposes and is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which future losses may occur. The total allowance is available to absorb losses from any segment of loans. The Company did not record a provision for loan losses for the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to a provision in the amount of $4.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2014.No provision for loan losses was recorded in the second quarter of 2015 due to the insignificant level of net charge-offs, the Bank's stable loan quality trends over the last four quarters and management's judgment that the loan loss reserve factors should be reduced to reflect the strengthening economic conditions in the Bank's markets, the Bank's stable loan quality trends and the level of estimated potential loss in the loan portfolio.Net charge-offs amounted to $13,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015. At June30, 2015, the allowance for loan losses was $7.4 million, a $426,000 increase from the allowance for loan losses at December31, 2014. As a percentage of total loans, the allowance was 0.97% at the end of the second quarter of 2015 and 1.06% at year end 2014. The allowance for loan losses was 159% of non-accrual loans at June 30, 2015 compared to 153% of non-accrual loans at December 31, 2014. Management believes that the quality of the loan portfolio remains sound considering the economic climate in the State of New Jersey and that the allowance for loan losses is adequate in relation to credit risk exposure levels. With respect to the remaining acquired Rumson loans of $103 million at June 30, 2015, the remaining accretable general credit discount was $873,000 and the non-accretable credit discount was $546,000. Deposits Deposits, which include demand deposits (interest bearing and non-interest bearing), savings deposits and time deposits, are a fundamental and cost-effective source of funding.The flow of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, changes in market interest rates and competition.The Bank offers a variety of products designed to attract and retain customers, with the Bank's primary focus being on the building and expanding of long-term relationships. The following table summarizes deposits at June 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. At June 30, 2015, total deposits were $798.1 million, a decrease of $19.7 million, or 2.4%, from $817.8 million at December 31, 2014.The decrease in deposits was due primarily to the outflow of municipal deposits acquired in the Rumson merger and a decrease in certificates of deposit. 53 Borrowings Borrowings are mainly comprised of Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") borrowings and overnight funds purchased.These borrowings are primarily used to fund asset growth not supported by deposit generation.The balance of borrowings was $130.7 million at June 30, 2015, consisting of $110.2 million in overnight borrowings from the FHLB and $20.5 million of long-term FHLB borrowings, compared to $25.1 million at December 31, 2014, consisting of $4.4 million of overnight borrowings from the FHLB and $20.7 million of long-term FHLB borrowings. Two long term FHLB fixed rate convertible advances were assumed by the Bank as a result of the Rumson merger. These two advances total $10.0 million and bear interest at 4.11% and 4.63%, respectively. As a result of acquisition accounting, the two advances were fair valued and a premium of $1.0 million was assigned. The premium is amortized over the remaining term of the borrowings. The two advances had a carrying amount of $10.5 million at June 30, 2015. The Bank also has a fixed rate convertible advance from the FHLB in the amount of $10.0 million that bears interest at the rate of 4.08%.This advance may be called by the FHLB quarterly at the option of the FHLB if rates rise and the rate earned by the FHLB is no longer a "market" rate.This advance is fully secured by marketable securities. Shareholders' Equity and Dividends Shareholders' equity increased by $4.4 million, or 5.1%, to $91.5 million at June 30, 2015 from $87.1 million at December 31, 2014.Tangible book value per common share increased by $0.59 to $10.39 at June 30, 2015 from $9.80 at December 31, 2014. The ratio of average shareholders' equity to total average assets was 9.10% at June 30, 2015 compared to 8.62% at December 31, 2014. Shareholders' equity increased $4.4 million due to net income of $4.6 million, $24,000 from the exercise of stock options and $326,000 in share based compensation for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in accumulated other comprehensive income of $475,000 during the period. In lieu of cash dividends to common shareholders, the Company (and its predecessor, the Bank) had declared a common stock dividend every year (except 2013 and 2014) since 1992 and has paid such dividends every year since 1993 (except 2014 due to the acquisition of Rumson).On February 20, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2015, which was paid on April 6, 2015.Per share amounts for the prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. The Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "FCCY." In 2005, the Company's board of directors authorized a common stock repurchase program that allows for the repurchase of a limited number of the Company's shares at management's discretion on the open market. The Company undertook this repurchase program in order to increase shareholder value. Disclosure of repurchases of Company shares made during the quarter ended June 30, 2015 is set forth under Part II, Item 2 of this report, "Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds." Actual capital amounts and ratios for the Company and the Bank as of June 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were as follows: 54 In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implement the revised standards of Basel III and address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.The Federal Reserve Board's final rules and the FDIC's interim final rules apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more and top-tier savings and loan holding companies ("banking organizations"). Under Basel III Capital Rules, the initial minimum capital ratios effective as of January 1, 2015 are as follows: common equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets, Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% of risk weighted assets, total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8% and Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The rules also limit a banking organization's ability to pay dividends, engage in share repurchases or pay discretionary bonuses if the banking organization does not hold a "capital conservation buffer" consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements.The capital conservation buffer requirements will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and would increase by that amount until fully implemented in January 2019 at 2.50% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. At June 30, 2015, the capital ratios of the Company exceeded the minimum Basel III capital requirements.It is management's goal to monitor and maintain adequate capital levels to continue to support asset growth and the expansion of the Bank and to continue its status as a well-capitalized institution. 55 Liquidity At June 30, 2015, the amount of liquid assets and the Bank's access to off-balance sheet liquidity remained at a level management deemed adequate to ensure that contractual liabilities, depositors' withdrawal requirements, and other operational and customer credit needs could be satisfied. Liquidity management refers to the Company's ability to support asset growth while satisfying the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of customers.In addition to maintaining liquid assets, factors such as capital position, profitability, asset quality and availability of funding affect a bank's ability to meet its liquidity needs.On the asset side, liquid funds are maintained in the form of cash and cash equivalents, Federal funds sold, investment securities held to maturity maturing within one year, securities available for sale and loans held for sale.Additional asset-based liquidity is derived from scheduled loan repayments as well as investment repayments of principal and interest from mortgage-backed securities.On the liability side, the primary source of liquidity is the ability to generate core deposits.Short-term borrowings are used as supplemental funding sources when growth in the core deposit base does not keep pace with that of earnings assets. The Bank has established a borrowing relationship with the FHLB which further supports and enhances liquidity. During 2010, the FHLB replaced its Overnight Line of Credit and One-Month Overnight Repricing Line of Credit facilities available to member banks with a fully secured line of up to 50 percent of a bank's quarter-end total assets.Under the terms of this facility, the Bank's total credit exposure to the FHLB cannot exceed 50 percent, or $523.5 million, of its total assets at June 30, 2015.In addition, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Bank's advances, letters of credit, the dollar amount of the FHLB's minimum collateral requirement for off-balance sheet financial contracts and advance commitments cannot exceed 30 percent of the Bank's total assets, unless the Bank obtains approval from the FHLB's Board of Directors or its Executive Committee.These limits are further restricted by a member's ability to provide eligible collateral to support its obligations to the FHLB as well as the ability to meet the FHLB's stock requirement.At June 30, 2015, the Bank pledged collateral to the FHLB to support additional borrowings of $41.8 million.The Bank also maintains an unsecured federal funds line of $25.0 million with a correspondent bank. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows present the changes in cash from operating, investing and financing activities.At June 30, 2015, the balance of cash and cash equivalents was $16.4 million. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $5.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $7.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014.A source of funds is net income from operations adjusted for activity related to loans originated for sale and sold, the provision for loan losses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and net amortization of premiums and discounts on securities.Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was less than net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2014 due to lower net proceeds from sales and origination of loans in 2015 compared to 2014. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $89.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $83.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014.The primary use of cash for the first six months of 2015 was the net increase of loans of $104.2 million compared to a net increase in loans of $122.9 million for the first six months of 2014. Net cash received from the acquisition of Rumson of $21.4 million reduced the net cash used for the first six months of 2014. Net cash provided by financing activities was $85.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to $30.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2014.The primary source of funds for the 2015 period wasthe increase in borrowed funds of $105.6 million, which was partially offset by the decrease in deposits of $19.7 million, compared to the $38.9 million increase in borrowings, which was partially offset by the decrease in deposits of $8.2 million for the 2014 period. The securities portfolios are also a source of liquidity, providing cash flows from maturities and periodic repayments of principal.For the six months ended June 30, 2015 and June 30 2014, prepayments and maturities of investment securities totaled $30.1 million and $25.9 million, respectively.Another source of liquidity is the loan portfolio, which provides a flow of payments and maturities. 56 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The largest component of the Company's total income is net interest income, and the majority of the Company's financial instruments are composed of interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities with various terms and maturities. The primary objective of management is to maximize net interest income while minimizing interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is derived from timing differences and the magnitude of relative changes in the repricing of assets and liabilities, loan prepayments, deposit withdrawals, and differences in lending and funding rates. Management actively seeks to monitor and control the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Under the interest rate risk policy established by the Board of Directors, the Company established quantitative guidelines with respect to interest rate risk and how interest rate shocks are projected to affect net interest income and economic value of equity. Summarized below is the projected effect of a parallel shift of an increase of 200 and 300 basis points, respectively, in market interest rates on net interest income and economic value of equity. Based upon the current interest rate environment, as of June 30, 2015, sensitivity to interest rate risk was as follows: The Company employs many assumptions to calculate the impact of changes in interest rates on assets and liabilities, and actual results may not be similar to projections due to several factors, including the timing and frequency of rate changes, market conditions and the shape of the yield curve. Actual results may also differ due to actions, if any, in response to changing rates. In calculating these exposures, the Company utilized an interest rate simulation model which is validated by third-party reviewers on an annual basis.Item 1.Financial Statements. 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 1 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Income (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 2 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. (1) Included in other income on the consolidated statements of income (2) Included in income taxes on the consolidated statements of income (3) Included in salaries and employee benefits expense on the consolidated statements of income 3 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 4 1st Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements ofCash Flows (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 5 1st Constitution Bancorp Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements September30, 2015 (Unaudited) (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include 1st Constitution Bancorp (the "Company"), its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1st Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1st Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., 204 South Newman Street Corp., and 249 New York Avenue, LLC. 1st Constitution Capital Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements, as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary.All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.The accounting and reporting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2014 , filed with the SEC on March 26, 2015. In the opinion of the Company, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) which are necessary for a fair presentation of the operating results for the interim periods have been included. The results of operations for periods of less than a year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. The Company has evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date of September30, 2015 for items that should potentially be recognized or disclosed in these financial statements.The evaluation was conducted through the date these financial statements were issued. On April 6, 2015, the Company paid a five percent common stock dividend to shareholders of record on March 16, 2015.As appropriate, common shares and per common share data presented in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes below have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. (2) Acquisition of Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company On February 7, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company, a New Jersey state commercial bank ("Rumson"), which merged with and into the Bank, with the Bank as the surviving entity. The merger agreement among the Company, the Bank and Rumson (the "Merger Agreement") provided that the shareholders of Rumson would receive, at their election, for each outstanding share of Rumson common stock that they own at the effective time of the merger, either 0.7772 shares of the Company common stock or $7.50 in cash or a combination thereof, subject to proration as described in the Merger Agreement, so that 60% of the aggregate merger consideration consisted of cash and 40% consisted of shares of the Company's common stock. The Company issued an aggregate of 1,019,223 shares of its common stock and paid $14.8 million in cash in the transaction. The merger was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting and accordingly, assets acquired, liabilities assumed and consideration exchanged were recorded at estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Rumson's results of operations have been included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income since February 7, 2014. 6 The following table summarizes the final fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 805-10 provides that if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the acquirer shall report in its financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. During the measurement period, the acquirer shall retrospectively adjust the provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. During the measurement period, the acquirer also shall recognize additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. The measurement period may not exceed one year from the acquisition date. All measurements for the Rumson acquisition have been completed as of December 31, 2014. The provisional amounts originally reported have been adjusted to reflect the review and completion of the fair value measurements.As a result of the completion of independent appraisals, the fair value of acquired real estate assets was reduced by approximately $639,000 , deferred tax assets were increased by approximately $403,000 and goodwill was increased by approximately $236,000 .These adjustments had an insignificant effect on the results of operations since the acquisition date. 7 (3) Net Income Per Common Share Basic net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, as adjusted for the assumed exercise of potential common stock warrants, common stock options and unvested restricted stock awards (as defined below), using the treasury stock method. The following tables illustrate the reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) calculations.Dilutive securities in the tables below exclude common stock options and warrants with exercise prices that exceed the average market price of the Company's common stock during the periods presented.Inclusion of these common stock options and warrants would be anti-dilutive to the diluted earnings per common share calculation. 8 For the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , 75,376 and 94,811 options, respectively, were anti-dilutiveand were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, 54,414 and 137,864 options, respectively, were anti-dilutive and were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share. 9 (4) Investment Securities Amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and the estimated fair value by security type are as follows: 10 Restricted stock at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 totaled $3.6 million and $1.7 million , respectively, consisting of $3.5 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at September 30, 2015 and $1.6 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York Stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at December 31, 2014. 11 Gross unrealized losses on available for sale and held to maturity securities and the estimated fair value of the related securities aggregated by security category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 were as follows: 12 The following table sets forth certain information regarding the amortized cost, carrying value, estimated fair value, weighted average yields and contractual maturities of the Company's investment portfolio as of September30, 2015 .Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.Federal Home Loan Bank stock is included in "Available for Sale-Due in one year or less." 13 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government sponsored corporations and agencies: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.The contractual terms of these investments do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the par value of the investment.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Residential collateralized mortgage obligations and residential mortgage backed securities: The unrealized losses on investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities were caused by increases in market interest rates. The contractual cash flows of these securities are guaranteed by the issuers, which are primarily government or government sponsored agencies. It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Obligations of state and political subdivisions: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment.None of the issuers have defaulted on interest payments. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Corporate debt securities: The unrealized losses on investments in corporate debt securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.None of the corporate issuers have defaulted on interest payments. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not a decline in credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity. Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities single issuer :The investments in these securities with unrealized losses are comprised of four corporate trust preferred securities issued by two large financial institutions that mature in 2027. The contractual terms of the trust preferred securities do not allow the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the face value of the trust preferred securities, which is greater than the amortized cost of the trust preferred securities.One of the issuers continues to maintain an investment grade credit rating and neither has defaulted on interest payments.The decline in fair value is attributable to the widening of interest rate spreads and the lack of an active trading market for these securities and, to a lesser degree, market concerns about the issuers' credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities pooled: This trust preferred debt security was issued by a two issuer pool (Preferred Term Securities XXV, Ltd. co-issued by Keefe, Bruyette and Woods, Inc. and First Tennessee ("PRETSL XXV")) consisting primarily of trust preferred debt securities issued by financial institution holding companies.During 2009, the Company recognized an other-than-temporary impairment of $865,000 , of which $364,000 was determined to be a credit loss and charged to operations and $501,000 was recognized in the other comprehensive income (loss) component of shareholders' equity. The primary factor used to determine the credit portion of the impairment loss recognized in the income statement for this security was the discounted present value of projected cash flow where that present value of cash flow was less than the amortized cost basis of the security.The present value of cash flow was developed using an EITF 99-20 model that considered performing collateral ratios, the level of subordination to senior tranches of the security, and credit ratings of and projected credit defaults in the underlying collateral. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates the security to determine if any additional other-than-temporary impairment is required.As of September30, 2015 , management concluded that no additional other-than-temporary impairment had occurred. 14 (5) Allowance for Loan Losses and Credit Quality Disclosure The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at September30, 2015 : The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at December31, 2014 : 15 As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired in the Rumson merger with evidence of deteriorated credit quality of $1.6 million at September30, 2015 and $2.0 million at December31, 2014 were not classified as non-performing loans. The Company's internal credit risk grades are based on the definitions currently utilized by the banking regulatory agencies.The grades assigned and definitions are as follows, and loans graded excellent, above average, good and watch list are treated as "pass" for grading purposes: 1. Excellent - Loans that are based upon cash collateral held at the Bank and adequately margined. Loans that are based upon "blue chip" stocks listed on the major exchanges and adequately margined. 2. Above Average - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show excellent liquidity and long-term debt is on well-spread schedules of repayment easily covered by cash flow.Such companies have been consistently profitable and have diversification in their product lines or sources of revenue.The continuation of profitable operations for the foreseeable future is likely.Management is comprised of a mix of ages, experience, and backgrounds and management succession is in place.Sources of raw materials are abundant, and for service companies, the source of revenue is abundant.Future needs have been planned for.Character and ability of individuals or company principals are excellent.Loans to individuals are supported by high net worths and liquid assets. 3. Good - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show good liquidity and cash flow adequate to meet maturities of long-term debt with a comfortable margin.Such companies have established profitable records over a number of years, and there has been growth in net worth.Operating ratios are in line with those of the industry, and expenses are in proper relationship to the volume of business done and the profits achieved.Management is well-balanced and competent in their responsibilities.Economic environment is favorable; however, competition is strong.The prospects for growth are good.Loans in this category do not meet the collateral requirements of loans in categories 1 and 2 above. Loans to individuals are supported by good net worths but whose supporting assets are illiquid. 3w. Watch - Included in this category are loans evidencing problems identified by Bank management that require closer supervision.Such problems have not developed to the point which require a Special Mention rating.This category also covers situations where the Bank does not have adequate current information upon which credit quality can be determined.The account officer has the obligation to correct these deficiencies within 30 days from the time of notification. 4. Special Mention - Loans or borrowing relationships that require more than the usual amount of attention by Bank management.Industry conditions may be adverse or weak.The borrower's ability to meet current payment schedules may be questionable, even though interest and principal are being paid as agreed. Heavy reliance has been placed on the collateral.Profits, if any, are interspersed with losses.Management is "one man" orineffective or there is no plan for management succession.Expectations of a loan loss are not immediate; however, if present trends continue, a loan loss could be expected. 5. Substandard - Loans in this category possess weaknesses that jeopardize the ultimate collection of total outstandings.These weaknesses require close supervision by Bank management.Current financial statements are unavailable and the loan is inadequately protected by the collateral pledged. 6. Doubtful - Loans with the same weaknesses inherent in the substandard classification and where collection or liquidation in full is highly questionable.It is likely that the loan will not be collected in full and the Bank will suffer some loss which is not quantifiable at the time of review. 7. Loss - Loans considered uncollectable and of such little value that their continuance as an active asset is not warranted.Loans in this category are charged off to the Bank's loan loss reserve.Any accrued interest is backed out of income. 16 The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indictor at September30, 2015 : The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indictor at December31, 2014 : 17 Impaired Loans Disclosures Loans are considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is determined that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan contract, including scheduled interest payments.When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, it is also considered to be impaired.Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when: (1) the full collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain or (2) they are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal payments unless the loans are both well secured and in the process of collection. The following tables summarize the distribution of the allowance for loan losses and loans receivable by loan class and impairment method at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 : Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of September30, 2015 Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of December31, 2014 18 The activity in the allowance for loan loss by loan class for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014 was as follow s: (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Residential Real Estate Consumer Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2014 $1,215 $1,761 $2,393 $896 $197 $129 $2 $332 $6,925 Provision charged (credited) to operations (98 ) 62 (4 ) 152 13 (13 ) - 388 500 Loans charged off - (62 ) - - - - - - (62 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - - - - - 1 - - 1 Balance - March31, 2015 $1,117 $1,761 $2,389 $1,048 $210 $117 $2 $720 $7,364 Provision charged (credited) to operations (27 ) (81 ) 49 71 (8 ) 3 (1 ) (6 ) - Loans charged off - (26 ) - - - - - - (26 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 5 7 - - 1 - - 13 Balance - June30, 2015 $1,090 $1,659 $2,445 $1,119 $202 $121 $1 $714 $7,351 Provision charged (credited) to operations (70 ) 127 507 (137 ) 17 (6 ) (1 ) (337 ) 100 Loans charged off - (27 ) (287 ) - - (14 ) - - (328 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 7 - - - 2 - - 9 Balance - September 30, 2015 $1,020 $1,766 $2,665 $982 $219 $103 $- $377 $7,132 (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Residential Real Estate Consumer Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2013 $1,205 $1,272 $3,022 $585 $165 $109 $2 $679 $7,039 Provision charged (credited) to operations 60 454 114 (63 ) 17 (16 ) (1 ) (65 ) 500 Loans charged off - (511 ) - - - - - - (511 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 3 - - - - - - 3 Balance - March31, 2014 $1,265 $1,218 $3,136 $522 $182 $93 $1 $614 $7,031 Provision charged (credited) to operations (315 ) 4,041 471 388 (9 ) (2 ) - (474 ) 4,100 Loans charged off - (3,714 ) - - - - - - (3,714 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 1 - - - - - - 1 Balance - June30, 2014 $950 $1,546 $3,607 $910 $173 $91 $1 $140 $7,418 Provision charged(credited)to operations 149 185 223 (123 ) 44 1 - 171 650 Loans charged off - (99 ) (894 ) - (15 ) - - - (1,008 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 9 39 - - - - - 48 Balance - September30, 2014 $1,099 $1,641 $2,975 $787 $202 $92 $1 $311 $7,108 When a loan is identified as impaired, the measurement of impairment is based on the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, except when the sole remaining source of repayment for the loan is the liquidation of the collateral.In such cases, the current fair value of the collateral less selling costs is used.If the value of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, the impairment is recognized through an allowance estimate or a charge to the allowance. 19 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) September30, 2015 20 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) December31, 2014 21 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) 22 Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans Purchased Credit-Impaired loans ("PCI") are loans acquired at a discount that are due in part to credit quality. The following table presents additional information regarding acquired credit-impaired loans at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 : There was a change in the expected cash flows on one PCI loan with a balance of $206,000 at September30, 2015 .An allowance for loan losses in the amount of $40,000 has been recorded for this acquired loan as of September30, 2015 . Changes in accretable discount for acquired credit-impaired loans for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and September30, 2014 were as follows: Consumer Mortgage Loans Secured by Residential Real Estate in Process of Foreclosure The following table summarizes the recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans secured by residential real estate in process of foreclosure: In the normal course of business, the Bank may consider modifying loan terms for various reasons. These reasons may include as a retention strategy to compete in the current interest rate environment or as a re-amortization or extension of a loan term to better match the loan's repayment stream with the borrower's cash flow. A modified loan would be considered a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR") if the Bank grants a concession to a borrower and has determined that the borrower is troubled (i.e., experiencing financial difficulties). If the Bank restructures a loan to a troubled borrower, the loan terms (i.e., interest rate, payment, amortization period and maturity date) may be modified in various ways to enable the borrower to cover the modified debt service payments based on current financial statements and cash flow adequacy. If a borrower's hardship is thought to be temporary, then modified terms may only be offered for that time period. Where possible, the Bank would attempt to obtain additional collateral and/or secondary repayment sources at the time of the restructuring in order to put the Bank in the best possible position if the borrower is not able to meet the modified terms. The Bank will not offer modified terms if it believes that modifying the loan terms will only delay an inevitable permanent default. In evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, applicable guidance requires that a creditor must separately conclude that the restructuring constitutes a concession and the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties. There were no loans modified that were TDRs in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 . For the year ended December31, 2014 , there were 3 loans with a recorded investment of $162,000 that were modified as TDRs.There were no troubled debt restructurings that subsequently defaulted within twelve months of restructuring during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and the year ended December31, 2014 . 23 (6) Share-Based Compensation The Company's share-based incentive plans ("Stock Plans") authorize the issuance of an aggregate of 437,450 shares of the Company's common stock (as adjusted for stock dividends) pursuant to awards that may be granted in the form of stock options to purchase common stock ("Options") and awards of shares of common stock ("Stock Awards").The purpose of the Stock Plans is to attract and retain personnel for positions of substantial responsibility and to provide additional incentive to certain officers, directors, employees and other persons to promote the success of the Company.Under the Stock Plans, options may have a term of not more than ten years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination in certain circumstances.Options are granted with an exercise price at the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant or otherwise as provided for in the Company's Stock Plans.The grant date fair value is calculated using the Black Scholes option valuation model. As of September30, 2015 , there were 280,160 shares of common stock available for future grants under the Stock Plans, of which 233,960 shares are available for future grants under the 2013 Equity Incentive Plan and 46,200 shares are available for future grant under the 2015 Directors Stock Plan. Stock-based compensation expense related to options was $12,000 and $6,800 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively and $36,000 and $77,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Transactions under the Stock Plans during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 are summarized as follows: The fair value of each option and the significant weighted average assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the options granted for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 are as follows: (1)To date, the Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock. As of September30, 2015 , there was approximately $76,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option-based compensation arrangements granted under the Company's stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over the next four years . 24 The following table summarizes the activity in non-vested restricted shares for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 : The value of restricted shares is based upon the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. The shares generally vest over a 4 year service period with compensation expense recognized on a straight-line basis. Stock-based compensation expense related to stock grants was $146,000 and $113,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively and $447,000 and $367,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. As of September30, 2015 , there was approximately $1.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock grants.Compensation costs related to non-vested stock grants are recognized over four years from the date of grant. (7) Benefit Plans The Bank has a 401(k) plan which covers substantially all employees with six months or more of service. The 401(k) plan permits all eligible employees to make contributions to the plan up to the IRS salary deferral limit. The Bank's contributions to the 401(k) plan are expensed as incurred. The Company also provides retirement benefits to certain employees under supplemental executive retirement plans.The plans are unfunded and the Company accrues actuarially determined benefit costs over the estimated service period of the employees in the plans.The Company recognizes the over-funded or under-funded status of a defined benefit post-retirement plan as an asset or liability in itsbalance sheetand recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur, through comprehensive income. In connection with the benefit plans, the Bank has life insurance policies on the lives of its executives, directors and divisional officers. The Bank is the owner and beneficiary of the policies. The cash surrender values of the policies total approximately $21.4 million and $21.2 million at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 , respectively. The components of net periodic expense for the Company's supplemental executive retirement plans for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: 25 (8) Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) is the total of (1) net income (loss), and (2) all other changes in equity from non-shareholder sources, which are referred to as other comprehensive income (loss).The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and the related tax effects, are as follows: Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows and are presented net of tax: 26 27 (9) Recent Accounting Pronouncements ASU Update 2015-16 Business Combination (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments. In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-16, "Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments," to require adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period to be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This includes any effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization or other income effects as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. The amendments in the proposed Update would require an entity to disclose (either on the face of the income statement or in the notes) the nature and amount of measurement-period adjustments recognized in the current period, including separately the amounts in current-period income statement line items that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. The amendments are effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2016 and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The amendments in this Update should be applied prospectively to measurement-period adjustments that occur after the effective date of this Update. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2015-01 (Subtopic 225-20): Simplifying Income Statement Presentation by Eliminating the Concept of Extraordinary Items. In January 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-01, "Simplifying Income Statement Presentation by Eliminating the Concept of Extraordinary Items," to eliminate the concept of extraordinary items from U.S. GAAP.The presentation and disclosure guidance for items that are unusual in nature or occur infrequently will be retained and will be expanded to include items that are both unusual in nature and infrequently occurring. ASU 2015-01 eliminates the requirement in Subtopic 225-20 to consider whether an underlying event or transaction is extraordinary and if so, to separately present the item in the income statement, net of tax, after income from continuing operations.Items that are either unusual in nature or infrequently occurring will continue to be reported as a separate component of income from continuing operations.For all entities (public and private), the ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015.Early adoption is permitted provided that the guidance is applied from the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.The Company does not expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU 2014-9 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-9, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." The objective of this amendment is to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP.This update affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of non-financial assets unless those contracts are in the scope of other standards.On July 9, 2015, the FASB decided to delay the effective date of the new revenue standard by one year. The new revenue standard will be effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company does not anticipate a material impact on the consolidated financial statements related to this guidance. 28 (10) Fair Value Disclosures U.S. GAAP has established a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation methods used to measure fair value.The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical unrestricted assets or liabilities. Level 2: Quoted prices in markets that are not active, or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (i.e., supported with little or no market activity). An asset's or liability's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. A description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy, is set forth below.These valuation methodologies were applied to all of the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value. In general, fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available.If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters.Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and counterparty creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters.Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time.The Company's valuation methodologies may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future values.While management believes the Company's valuation methodologies are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Securities Available for Sale .Securities classified as available for sale are reported at fair value utilizing quoted market prices on nationally recognized exchanges (Level 1) or by using Level 2 inputs.For Level 2 securities, the Company obtains fair value measurements from an independent pricing service.The fair value measurements consider observable data that may include dealer quotes, market spreads, cash flows, the U.S. Treasury yield curve, live trading levels, trade execution data, market consensus prepayments speeds, credit information and the security's terms and conditions, among other things. Impaired loans. Loans included in the following table are those which the Company has measured and recognized impairment, generally based on the fair value of the loan's collateral.Fair value is generally determined based upon independent third party appraisals of the collateral or discounted cash flows based on the expected proceeds.These assets are included as Level 3 fair values, based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements.The fair value consists of the loan balances less specific valuation allowances. Other Real Estate Owned. Foreclosed properties are adjusted to fair value less estimated selling costs at the time of foreclosure in preparation for transfer from portfolio loans to other real estate owned ("OREO"), establishing a new accounting basis. The Company subsequently adjusts the fair value of the OREO utilizing Level 3 inputs on a non-recurring basis to reflect partial write-downs based on the observable market price, current appraised value of the asset or other estimates of fair value. 29 The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis segregated by the level of the valuation inputs within the fair value hierarchy utilized to measure fair value: Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment).Assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 were as follows: Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at September30, 2015 consisted of 6 loans having an aggregate recorded investment of $2.4 million and specific loan loss allowances of $40,000 .Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at December 31, 2014 consisted of 8 loans having an aggregate balance of $4.0 million with a specific loan loss allowance of $700,000 and 3 loans totaling $578,000 which were charged down during the year. 30 The following table presents additional qualitative information about assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, and for which the Company has utilized Level 3 inputs to determine fair value: (1) Fair value is generally determined through independent appraisals of the underlying collateral, which generally include various Level 3 inputs which are not identifiable. (2) Includes qualitative adjustments by management and estimated liquidation expenses. The fair value of other real estate owned was determined using appraisals, which may be discounted based on management's review and changes in market conditions. The following is a summary of fair value versus carrying value of all of the Company's financial instruments.For the Company and the Bank, as with most financial institutions, the bulk of its assets and liabilities are considered financial instruments.Many of the financial instruments lack an available trading market as characterized by a willing buyer and willing seller engaging in an exchange transaction.Therefore, significant estimations and present value calculations were used for the purpose of this note.Changes in assumptions could significantly affect these estimates. Estimated fair values have been determined by using the best available data and an estimation methodology suitable for each category of financial instruments as follows: Cash and Cash Equivalents, Accrued Interest Receivable and Accrued Interest Payable (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accrued interest receivable and accrued interest payable approximate fair value. Securities Held to Maturity (Carried at Amortized Cost). The fair values of securities held to maturity are determined in the same manner as for securities available for sale. Loans Held For Sale (Carried at Lower of Aggregated Cost or Fair Value). The fair values of loans held for sale are determined, when possible, using quoted secondary market prices. If no such quoted market prices exist, fair values are determined using quoted prices for similar loans, adjusted for the specific attributes of the loans. Gross Loans Receivable (Carried at Cost). The fair values of loans, excluding impaired loans subject to specific loss reserves, are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses that use market rates at the balance sheet date that reflect the credit and interest rate-risk inherent in the loans.Projected future cash flows are calculated based upon contractual maturity or call dates, projected repayments and prepayments of principal.Generally, for variable rate loans that re-price frequently and with no significant change in credit risk, fair values are based on carrying values. Deposit Liabilities (Carried at Cost). The fair values disclosed for demand deposits (e.g., interest and non-interest demand and savings accounts) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts).Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered in the market on certificates of deposit to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits. Borrowings and Subordinated Debentures (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values. The fair values of long-term FHLB advances and subordinated debentures are estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, based on quoted or estimated interest rates for new borrowings with similar credit risk characteristics, terms and remaining maturity. 31 The estimated fair values and carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were as follows: Loan commitments and standby letters of credit as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 were based on fees charged for similar agreements; accordingly, the estimated fair value of loan commitments and standby letters of credit was nominal. 32 (11) Subsequent Event In the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company entered into a non-binding agreement to sell two OREO properties that were carried on the Company's financial statements at an aggregate value of approximately $4.0 million at September 30, 2015. If the contingencies in the non-binding agreement are satisfied and the transaction closes, the Company expects to record a pre-tax charge of approximately $700,000 , or $420,000 after tax, in the fourth quarter of 2015. Due to the generally favorable terms of the non-binding agreement, management concluded that a sale at a price lower than the carrying value on the Company's financial statements at September 30, 2015 would be in the best interests of the Company. 33 Item 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis of the operating results and financial condition at September30, 2015 is intended to help readers analyze the accompanying financial statements, notes and other supplemental information contained in this document. Results of operations for the three and nine month periods ended September30, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of results to be attained for any other period. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, notes and tables included elsewhere in this report and Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Form 10-K (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation) for the year ended December31, 2014 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 26, 2015. 34 General Throughout the following sections, the "Company" refers to 1st Constitution Bancorp and, as the context requires, its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1st Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1st Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., LLC, 204 South Newman Street Corp. and 249 New York Avenue, LLC.1st Constitution Capital Trust II ("Trust II"), a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary. Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, was created in May 2006 to issue trust preferred securities to assist the Company in raising additional capital. The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Company was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in February 1999 for the purpose of acquiring all of the issued and outstanding stock of the Bank, a full service commercial bank which began operations in August 1989, and thereby enabling the Bank to operate within a bank holding company structure. The Company became an active bank holding company on July 1, 1999. Other than its ownership interest in the Bank, the Company currently conducts no other significant business activities. The Bank operates nineteen branches and manages an investment portfolio through its subsidiary, 1st Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc.FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of the Bank, is used by the Bank to manage and dispose of repossessed real estate. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements.When used in this and in future filings by the Company with the SEC, in the Company's press releases and in oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer of the Company, the words or phrases "will," "will likely result," "could," "anticipates," "believes," "continues," "expects," "plans," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimated," "project" or "outlook" or similar expressions (including confirmations by an authorized executive officer of the Company of any such expressions made by a third party with respect to the Company) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Companycautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, each of which speaks only as of the date made.Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from those results expressed or implied, include, but are not limited to, those listed under "Business", "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 filed with the SEC on March 26, 2015, such as the overall economy and the interest rate environment; the ability of customers to repay their obligations; the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; competition; significant changes in accounting, tax or regulatory practices and requirements; certain interest rate risks; risks associated with investments in mortgage-backed securities;risks associated with speculative construction lending; and risks associated with safeguarding information technology systems. Although management has taken certain steps to mitigate any negative effect of the aforementioned items, significant unfavorable changes could severely impact the assumptions used and could have an adverse effect on profitability. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements, except as required by law. 35 Recent Developments On February 20, 2015 the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2015, which was paid on April 6, 2015.As appropriate, common shares and per common share data presented for 2015 and 2014 have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. Merger of Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company with and into the Bank in 2014 On February 7, 2014, the Company completed its acquisition of Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company, a New Jersey state-chartered commercial bank ("Rumson"), which merged with and into the Bank, with the Bank as the surviving entity. The merger agreement among the Company, the Bank and Rumson (the "Merger Agreement") provided that the shareholders of Rumson would receive, at their election, for each outstanding share of Rumson common stock that they own at the effective time of the merger, either 0.7772 shares of the Company common stock or $7.50 in cash, subject to proration as described in the Merger Agreement, so that 60% of the aggregate merger consideration consisted of cash and 40% consisted of shares of the Company's common stock. The Company issued an aggregate of 1,019,223 shares of its common stock and paid $14.8 million in cash in the transaction. The merger was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting and accordingly, assets acquired, liabilities assumed and consideration exchanged were recorded at their fair values as of the acquisition date. Rumson's results of operations have been included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income since February 7, 2014. 36 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Compared to Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 Summary The Company reported net income of $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, a 15% increase compared to net income of $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014. Net income per diluted share was $0.32 for the third quarter of 2015, a 14% increase compared to net income per diluted share of $0.28 for the third quarter of 2014. The Company reported net income of $7.0 million or $0.92 per diluted share for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to Adjusted Net Income (as defined below) of $5.5 million or Adjusted Net Income per diluted share of $0.73 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Net income and net income per diluted share as reported were $2.3 million and $0.31, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Adjusted Net Income excludes the after-tax effect of merger related expenses that were incurred in the first and second quarters of 2014 in connection with the merger of Rumson with and into the Bank on February 7, 2014 and the provision for loan losses related to the full charge-off of a loan due to fraudulent misrepresentations by the borrower and its principals recorded in the second quarter of 2014. The significant increase in net income for the third quarter of 2015 compared to net income for the third quarter of 2014 was due in part to the $717,000 increase in net interest income to $9.7 million, which was driven primarily by the growth of the Bank's loan portfolio in 2015. Due to stable loan quality and a moderate level of net charge-offs during the third quarter of 2015, the provision for loan losses declined to $100,000 compared to $650,000 in the third quarter of 2014. Lower non-interest income and higher non-interest expenses in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014 partially offset the higher net interest income and lower provision for loan losses in the third quarter of 2015. The significant increase in net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to Adjusted Net Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was due primarily to the $3.4 million increase in net interest income to $27.6 million, which was driven by the growth of the Bank's loan portfolio in 2015. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share are non-GAAP measures. The following table provides a reconciliation of thesenon-GAAP measures to net income and net income per diluted share as reported: (1) The Company used these non-GAAP financial measures, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share, because the Company believes that it is useful for the users of the financial information to understand the effect on net income of the merger related expenses incurred in the merger with Rumson and the large provision for loan losses recorded 37 as a result of the loss on a loan due to the fraudulent misrepresentations of a borrower and its principals.Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures improve the comparability of the current period results with the results of prior periods.The Company cautions that the non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the Company's U.S. GAAP results. (2) The amount represents the full charge-off of the loan that was subject to fraudulent misrepresentation by a borrower and its principals. (3) Tax effected at an income tax rate of 39.94%, less the impact of non-deductible merger expenses. (4) Adjusted Return on Assets and Adjusted Return on Equity exclude the after-tax effect of the merger-related expenses and the fraud related loan loss provision in 2014. 38 Third Quarter Highlights Net interest income was $9.7 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to $9.4 million in the second quarter of 2015 and $8.9 million in the third quarter of 2014. The net interest margin for each of these periods was 4.19%, 4.19% and 4.07%, respectively. During the third quarter of 2015, the total loan portfolio decreased $49.1 million, or 6.5%, to $709.4 million. Mortgage warehouse lines outstanding decreased $34.1 million to $245.5 million at September 30, 2015, reflecting total paydowns on lines that exceeded the total loan fundings during the quarter. Approximately 67% of the $1.1 billion of mortgage warehouse funding activity during the third quarter were for home purchases. The loan to asset ratio was 72% at September 30, 2015 compared to 68% at December 31, 2014 and 64% at September 30, 2014. The Company recorded a provision for loan losses in the amount of $100,000 in the third quarter of 2015 due to the Bank's stable loan quality, the moderate level of net-charge offs and management's assessment of strengthening economic conditions in the Bank's markets. SBA loan sales were $2.2 million and generated gains on sales of loans of $193,000, and SBA commercial loan originations were $850,000 during the third quarter of 2015. During the third quarter of 2015, the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation originated $22.9 million of residential mortgages and sold $38.0 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains from the sales of loans of $262,000. At September 30, 2015, the pipeline of residential mortgage loans in process was $41.5 million. The Company's efficiency ratio for the third quarter of 2015 was 64.0% compared to 67.4% for the second quarter of 2015 and 62.8% for the third quarter of 2014. Earnings Analysis The Bank's results of operations depend primarily on net interest income, which is primarily affected by the market interest rate environment, the shape of the U.S. Treasury yield curve, and the difference between the yield on interest-earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities.Other factors that may affect the Bank's operating results are general and local economic and competitive conditions, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. Net Interest Income Net interest income, the Company's largest and most significant component of operating income, is the difference between interest and fees earned on loans and other earning assets and interest paid on deposits and borrowed funds. This component represented 89.8% of the Company's net revenues (defined as net interest income plus non-interest income) for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to 85.8% of net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2014. Net interest income also depends upon the relative amount of average interest-earning assets, average interest-bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned or paid on them, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, net interest income represented 85.7% of the Company's net revenues compared to 84.7% of net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The following tables set forth the Company's consolidated average balances of assets and liabilities and shareholders' equity as well as interest income and expense on related items, and the Company's average yield or rate for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. The average rates are derived by dividing interest income and expense by the average balance of assets and liabilities, respectively. 39 (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. (4) Tax- equivalent basis. 40 (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and includes the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. (4) Tax- equivalent basis. 41 Three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to three months ended September 30, 2014 The Company's net interest income increased on a tax-equivalent basis by $691,000, or 7.5%, to $9.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $9.2 million reported for the three months ended September 30, 2014. The increase in the Company's net interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the comparable 2014 period was due primarily to the growth of the loan portfolio, the higher proportion of average loans to average assets, which generated the higher yield on earning assets of 4.68% compared to 4.58% in the third quarter of 2014. Interest expense on average interest bearing liabilities was 0.63% for the third quarter of 2015 compared to 0.66% in the third quarter of 2014. The net interest margin (on a tax-equivalent basis), which is net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets, was 4.19% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to 4.07% the three months ended September 30, 2014. Average interest-earning assets increased by $38.1 million, or 4.2%, to $940.8 million for the three month period ended September 30, 2015 from $902.7 million for the three month period ended September 30, 2014.The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, increased 10 basis points to 4.68% for the three month period ended September 30, 2015 when compared to 4.58% for the three month period ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to the increase in the average balance of the loan portfolio in the quarter ended September 30, 2015. The growth of the average balance of the loan portfolio in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 was due primarily to the growth in mortgage warehouse, construction and commercial real estate loans compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2014. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased by $18.5 million, or 2.6%, to $731.6 million for the three month period ended September 30, 2015 from $713.1 million for the three month period ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to increases in borrowed funds and money market and NOW accounts, which were partially offset by decreases in savings accounts and certificates of deposit. Overall, the cost of total interest-bearing liabilities decreased 3 basis points to 0.63% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 from 0.66% for the three months ended September 30, 2014. Nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2014 For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Company's net interest income increased on a tax-equivalent basis by $3.3 million, or 13.3%, to $28.4 million compared to $25.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. This increase was due primarily to the growth of the loan portfolio, an increase in the average yield on interest-earning assets and lower rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the net interest margin (on a tax-equivalent basis) was 4.11% compared to 3.84% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Average interest-earning assets increased by $50.7 million, or 5.8%, to $922.3 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2015 from $871.6 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2014. The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, increased 24 basis points to 4.62% for the nine month period ended September 30, 2015 compared to 4.38% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 primarily due to the $143.6 million increase in the average balance of the loan portfolio during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Average interest-bearing liabilities increased by $29.0 million, or 4.2%, to $721.5 million for the nine month period ended September 30, 2015 compared to $692.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to increases in money market and NOW accounts and borrowed funds. The total cost of interest-bearing liabilities decreased by 3 basis points to 0.64% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 from 0.67% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. 42 Provision for Loan Losses Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 compared to three months ended September 30, 2014 Management considers a complete review of the following specific factors in determining the provisions for loan losses: historical losses by loan category, the level of non-accrual loans and problem loans as identified through internal review and classification, collateral values, and the growth and size of the loan portfolio. In addition to these factors, management takes into consideration current economic conditions and local real estate market conditions.On the basis of this evaluation process, the moderate level of net charge-offs, the Bank's stable loan quality trends over the last four quarters and management's assessment of the strengthening economic conditions in the Bank's markets, a provision for loan losses of $100,000 was recorded for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to a provision of $650,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014. At September 30, 2015, non-performing loans decreased by $444,000, or 9.2%, to $4.4 million from $4.8 million at December 31, 2014 and the ratio of non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.62% at September 30, 2015 compared to 0.74% at December31, 2014. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2014 The provision for loan losses was $600,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $5.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The lower provision for loan losses for the first nine months of 2015 reflected a significantly lower level of net charge-offs of $393,000 compared to net charge-offs of $5.2 million for the first nine months of 2014. The higher level of net charge-offs in the 2014 period included $3.7 million of net charge-offs related to the loss on a loan due to fraudulent misrepresentations by the borrower and its principals. Non-performing loans declined to $4.4 million at September 30, 2015 compared to $4.8 million at December 31, 2014 and $7.9 million at September 30, 2014. Non-Interest Income Three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to three months ended September 30, 2014 Total non-interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was $1.1 million, a decrease of $383,000, or 25.8%, compared to total non-interest income of $1.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014. Gains on the sale of SBA and residential mortgage loans in the third quarter of 2015 were $101,000 lower than the gains on the sales of these loans in the third quarter of 2014 and service charge income was $82,000 lower due to lower customer activity. Service charge revenues decreased to $186,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $268,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014. This decrease was the result of a lower volume of uncollected funds and overdraft fees collected on deposit accounts during the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014. Gain on sales of loans originated for sale decreased by $101,000 to $455,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $556,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014.The Bank sells both loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration ("SBA") and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market.SBA loan sales during the third quarter of 2015 were $2.2 million and generated gains on sales of loans of $193,000. SBA commercial loan originations were $850,000 during the third quarter of 2015. Gains on the sale of SBA loans were $326,000 in the third quarter of 2014. During the third quarter of 2015, the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation originated $34.0 million of residential mortgages and sold $38.0 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains from the sales of loans of $262,000 compared to gains of $230,000 in the third quarter of 2014. At September 30, 2015, the pipeline of residential mortgage loans in process was $41.5 million. Non-interest income also includes income from bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI"), which amounted to $144,000 for each of the three months ended September 30, 2015 and September 30, 2014. The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box rental fees, wire transfer service fees and automated teller machine fees for non-Bank customers. The other income component of non-interest income decreased to $314,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $514,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 due to lower transaction activity. 43 Nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2014 Total non-interest income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $4.6 million, an increase of $224,000, or 5.1%, compared to total non-interest income of $4.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. This increase was due principally to higher gains on the sale of loans. Service charge revenues decreased to $615,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 from $754,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. This decrease was the result of a lower volume of uncollected funds and overdraft fees collected on deposit accounts. Gain on sales of loans originated for sale increased by $774,000 to $2.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014.The Bank sells both loans guaranteed by the SBA and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market.SBA loan sales were $14.1 million and generated gains on sales of loans of approximately $1.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. SBA commercial loan originations were $14.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Gains on sales of SBA loans were $1.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation originated $113.0 million of residential mortgages and sold $116.0 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains from the sales of loans of $941,000. Gains on sales of residential mortgages were $562,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Non-interest income also includes income from BOLI, which amounted to $420,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $422,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box rental fees, wire transfer service fees and automated teller machine fees for non-Bank customers. The other income component of non-interest income decreased to $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 due to lower transaction activity. Non-Interest Expense Non-interest expenses were $7.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $329,000 or 4.9% compared to $6.7 million for the third quarter of 2014. Non-interest expenses increased in the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014 due to a $123,000, or 3.1%, increase in salaries and employee benefits expense and an increase in other expenses of $314,000 partially offset by decreases in various expense categories. Non-interest expenses were $21.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $2.0 million or 10.5%, compared to $19.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, excluding $1.5 million in Rumson merger-related expenses. As reported, non-interest expenses increased $492,000 or 2.4% to $21.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $20.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Approximately $233,000 of the total increase in non-interest expenses reflects the inclusion of the former Rumson operations for the entire first quarter of 2015 compared to only a portion of the first quarter of 2014. Increases in non-interest expense are due primarily to an increase of $901,000 or 8.0% in salaries and employee benefit expenses, an increase of $358,000 or 25.1% in other operating expenses, an increase of $359,000 in other real estate owned expenses and an increase of $205,000 or 8.2% in occupancy expenses. The increase in salaries and employee benefits expense, occupancy and other operating expenses are due primarily to the growth and expansion of the Bank's operations. 44 The following table presents the major components of non-interest expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. Three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to three months ended September 30, 2014 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, increased by $123,000, or 3.1%, to $4.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $3.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014. The increase in salaries and employee benefits for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was a result of an increase in the number of employees, regular merit increases and increased health care costs. Full time equivalent employees at September 30, 2015 increased to 184 as compared to 177 full time equivalent employees at September 30, 2014. Occupancy expenses increased by $9,000, or 1.1%, to $843,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $834,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014.The increase for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2014 resulted primarily from an increase in building maintenance expense, which was partially offset by decreases in rent expense and leasehold depreciation expense. The cost of data processing services increased slightly to $326,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 from $313,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014, reflecting the cost containment and operating scale obtained through the integration of the former Rumson operations. FDIC insurance expense decreased to $160,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $210,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 primarily as a result of the lower assessment rate for FDIC insurance premiums. The assessment rate decreased during the third quarter of 2015 compared to 2014 due primarily to the lower level of charge-offs and non-performing assets and a higher ratio of net income before taxes to risk weighted assets in the third quarter of 2015 and the two immediately preceding quarters. Other real estate owned expenses decreased by $13,000 to $119,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $132,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014. At September 30, 2015, the Company held three properties with an aggregate value of $4.9 million as other real estate owned compared to one property with an aggregate value of $1.7 million at September 30, 2014. Regulatory, professional and other fees decreased by $9,000, or 2.2%, to $390,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $399,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to a decline in examination fees and legal expenses. Other expenses increased by $314,000 to $773,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $459,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as a result of increases in telephone expense, payroll processing and ATM operating expenses.Other operating expenses were also comprised of a variety of operating expenses as well as expenses associated with lending activities. 45 Nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2014 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, increased by $901,000, or 8.0%, to $12.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $11.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Approximately $115,000 of the increase was due to the inclusion of the former Rumson operations for the entire first quarter of 2015 compared to a portion of the first quarter of 2014. The balance of the increase in salaries and employee benefits was primarily due to an increase in the number of employees, regular merit increases and increased health care costs. Occupancy expenses increased by $205,000, or 8.2%, to $2.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $2.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014.The increase in occupancy expense resulted primarily from an increase in building maintenance expense related to the costs of the five properties acquired in the Rumson merger in the first quarter of 2014, which was partially offset by decreases in rent expense and leasehold depreciation expense. The cost of data processing services increased slightly to $951,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 from $941,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, reflecting the cost containment and operating scale obtained through the integration of the former Rumson operations. FDIC insurance expense decreased to $530,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $545,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 primarily as a result of a lower assessment rate for FDIC premiums due primarily to the lower level of net charge-offs and non-performing assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014. This decrease was partially offset by the higher assessment base due to the growth of average assets during the first nine months of 2015. Other real estate owned expenses increased by $359,000 to $631,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $272,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 primarily due to the write-down of one OREO property of $382,000 to the net realizable value of a contract for sale. Regulatory, professional and other fees increased by $345,000 to $1.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $1.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 due to higher legal fees incurred in pursuing the potential recovery of the loss on a loan that was a result of fraudulent misrepresentations by the borrower and its principals. Other expenses increased $358,000, or 25.1%, to $1.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $1.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to increases in telephone expense, ATM operating expense and payroll processing expense. Other operating expenses were also comprised of a variety of operating expenses as well as expenses associated with lending activities. 46 Income Taxes Three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to three months ended September 30, 2014 Pre-tax income increased to $3.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to pre-tax income of $3.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014. The Company recorded income tax expense of $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 31.8% compared to income tax expense of $917,000 and an effective tax rate of 30.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2014. The increase in income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to the significantly higher amount of pre-tax income in the period compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. Nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2014 Pre-tax income increased to $10.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to pre-tax income of $2.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The Company recorded income tax expense of $3.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 32.0% compared to income tax expense of $235,000 and an effective tax rate of 9.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The low effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was due primarily to the amount of tax-exempt income relative to the pre-tax income for the period. Financial Condition September 30, 2015 Compared with December 31, 2014 Total consolidated assets at September 30, 2015 were $980.5 million, representing an increase of $23.71 million, or 2.5%, from total consolidated assets of $956.8 million at December 31, 2014.The increase in assets was primarily attributable to a $54.9 million increase in net loans, which was primarily funded by a $40.1 million increase in FHLB borrowings. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2015 totaled $14.9 million compared to $14.5 million at December 31, 2014, an increase of $320,000, or 2.2%. To the extent that the Bank did not utilize funds for loan originations or securities purchases, the cash inflows accumulated in cash and cash equivalents. Loans Held for Sale Loans held for sale at September 30, 2015 were $5.7 million compared to $8.4 million at December 31, 2014. As indicated in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the amount of residential mortgage loans originated for sale was $113.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $84.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The decrease in long-term market interest rates that occurred during late 2014 and continued into 2015 increased the demand for residential mortgage loan financings during the first nine months of 2015.The amount of loans held for sale varies from period to period due to changes in the amount and timing of sales of residential mortgages. 47 Investment Securities Investment securities represented approximately 20.0% of total assets at September 30, 2015 and approximately 23.4% of total assets at December 31, 2014. Total investment securities decreased $28.2 million, or 12.6%, to $195.6 million at September 30, 2015 from $223.8 million at December 31, 2014. Purchases of investment securities totaled $14.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, and proceeds from calls, maturities and repayments totaled $42.2 million during the period. Securities available for sale are investments that may be sold in response to changing market and interest rate conditions or for other business purposes.Activity in this portfolio is undertaken primarily to manage liquidity and interest rate risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create more economically attractive returns.At September 30, 2015, securities available for sale totaled $74.6 million, a decrease of $5.6 million, or 7.0%, compared to securities available for sale totaling $80.2 million at December 31, 2014. At September 30, 2015, the securities available for sale portfolio had net unrealized gains of $507,000 compared to net unrealized gains of $427,000 at December 31, 2014.These unrealized gains were reflected, net of tax, in shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Securities held to maturity, which are carried at amortized historical cost, are investments for which there is the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity.At September 30, 2015, securities held to maturity were $121.0 million, a decrease of $22.6 million from $143.6 million at December 31, 2014.The fair value of the held to maturity portfolio at September 30, 2015 was $125.4 million. Loans The loan portfolio, which represents the Bank's largest asset, is a significant source of both interest and fee income. Elements of the loan portfolio are subject to differing levels of credit and interest rate risk. The Bank's primary lending focus continues to be mortgage warehouse lines, construction loans, commercial loans, owner-occupied commercial mortgage loans and commercial real estate loans on income producing assets. The following table represents the components of the loan portfolio at September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. The loan portfolio increased by $55.1 million, or 8.4%, to $709.4 million at September 30, 2015 compared to $654.3 million at December 31, 2014. Mortgage warehouse lines outstanding balances increased $66.4 million, reflecting higher levels of residential mortgage originations by the Bank's mortgage banking customers that was due to the seasonal home buying market and favorable residential mortgage market interest rates. The growth of this portfolio segment was the primary driver of the increase in the loan portfolio. The Bank's Mortgage Warehouse Funding Group offers revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to finance the origination of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association.On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market.Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of 48 repayment.Additionally, customers of the warehouse lines of credit are required to maintain deposit relationships with the Bank that, on average, represent 10% to 12% of the loan balances. Commercial business loans decreased $12.7 million, or 11.5%, during the first nine months of 2015. Commercial loans consist primarily of loans to small and middle market businesses and are typically working capital loans used to finance inventory, receivables or equipment needs. These loans are generally secured by business assets of the commercial borrower. Commercial real estate loans increased $8.2 million, or 4.1%, during the first nine months of 2015. Commercial real estate loans consistprimarily of loans to businesses collateralized by real estate employed in the business and loans to finance income producing properties. Construction loans decreased $1.5 million, or 1.5%, during the first nine months of 2015. Construction financing is provided to businesses to expand their facilities and operations and to real estate developers for the acquisition, development and construction of residential properties primarily and income producing properties secondarily. First mortgage construction loans are made to developers and builders primarily for single family homes or smaller multi-family buildings (less than ten units) that are presold, or are to be sold or leased on a speculative basis. The Bank lends to developers and builders with established relationships, successful operating histories and sound financial resources. The Bank also finances the construction of individual, owner-occupied single family homes. These loans are made to qualified individual borrowers and are generally supported by a take-out commitment from a permanent lender. The ability of the Company to enter into larger loan relationships and management's philosophy of relationship banking are key factors in the Company's strategy for loan growth.The ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and recovery of the carrying amount of real estate are subject to changes in the economic environment and real estate market in the Company's market region. 49 Non-Performing Assets Non-performing assets consist of non-performing loans and other real estate owned. Non-performing loans are composed of (1) loans on a non-accrual basis and (2) loans which are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest and principal payments but which have not been classified as non-accrual. Included in non-accrual loans are loans whose terms have been restructured to provide a reduction or deferral of interest and/or principal because of deterioration in the financial position of the borrower and which have not performed in accordance with the restructured terms. The Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans is that generally, loans are placed on a non-accrual status when they are 90 days past due, unless these loans are well secured and in the process of collection or, regardless of the past due status of the loan, when management determines that the complete recovery of principal or interest is in doubt.Consumer loans are generally charged off after they become 120 days past due.Subsequent payments on loans in non-accrual status are credited to income only if collection of principal is not in doubt. Non-accrual loans decreased $891,000 to $3.6 million at September 30, 2015 from $4.5 million at December 31, 2014.The major segments of non-accrual loans consist of commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans, which are in the process of collection.The table below sets forth non-performing assets and risk elements in the Bank's portfolio for the periods indicated. Non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.62% at September 30, 2015 from 0.74% at December 31, 2014 principally due to the increase in total loans and decrease in non-performing loans.Loan quality is considered to be sound. This was accomplished through quality loan underwriting, a proactive approach to loan monitoring and aggressive workout strategies. Non-performing assets decreased by $1.3 million to $9.3 million at September 30, 2015 from $10.6 million at December 31, 2014.Other real estate owned totaled $4.9 million at September 30, 2015 compared to $5.7 million at December 31, 2014.Loans in the process of foreclosure totaled $3.3 million at September 30, 2015 and consisted of four residential loans totaling $843,000 and five commercial real estate loans totaling $2.5 million. At September 30, 2015, the Bank had nine loans totaling $4.4 million which were troubled debt restructurings.Two of these loans totaling $449,000 are included in the above table as non-accrual loans; the remaining seven loans totaling $3.9 million are considered performing. As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired in the Rumson merger with evidence of deteriorated credit quality of $1.6 million at September 30, 2015 were not classified as non-performing loans. Non-performing assets represented 0.95% of total assets at September 30, 2015 compared to 1.11% of total assets at December 31, 2014. Management takes a proactive approach in addressing delinquent loans. The Company's President and Chief Executive Officer meets weekly with all loan officers to review the status of credits past-due 10 days or more. An action plan is discussed for delinquent 50 loans to determine the steps necessary to induce the borrower to cure the delinquency and restore the loan to a current status. Also, delinquency notices are system-generated when loans are five days past-due and again at 15 days past-due. In most cases, the Company's collateral is real estate. If the collateral is foreclosed upon, the real estate is carried at fair market value less the estimated selling costs. The amount, if any, by which the recorded amount of the loan exceeds the fair market value of the collateral, less estimated selling costs, is a loss which is charged to the allowance for loan losses at the time of foreclosure or repossession. Resolution of a past-due loan can be delayed if the borrower files a bankruptcy petition because a collection action cannot be continued unless the Company first obtains relief from the automatic stay provided by the bankruptcy code. Changes in other real estate owned during the three months ended September 30, 2015 consisted of the foreclosure of one residential real estate property with a fair value of $966,000 and the sale of a nine-unit condominium building in the amout of $1.4 million. Additionally during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, the nine-unit condominium building was written down to its updated fair value in June 2015. 51 Allowance for Loan Losses and Related Provision The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level sufficient to absorb estimated credit losses in the loan portfolio as of the date of the financial statements.The allowance for loan losses is a valuation reserve available for losses incurred or inherent in the loan portfolio and other extensions of credit.The determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is a critical accounting policy of the Company. The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. All, or part, of the principal balance of commercial and commercial real estate loans and construction loans are charged off against the allowance as soon as it is determined that the repayment of all, or part, of the principal balance is highly unlikely.Consumer loans are generally charged off no later than 120 days past due on a contractual basis, earlier in the event of bankruptcy, or if there is an amount deemed uncollectible . Because all identified losses are charged off, no portion of the allowance for loan losses is restricted to any individual loan or groups of loans and the entire allowance is available to absorb any and all loan losses. Management reviews the adequacy of the allowance on at least a quarterly basis to ensure that the provision for loan losses has been charged against earnings in an amount necessary to maintain the allowance at a level that is adequate based on management's assessment of probable estimated losses. The Company's methodology for assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses consists of several key elements and is consistent with U.S. GAAP and interagency supervisory guidance.The allowance for loan losses methodology consists of two major components.The first component is an estimation of losses associated with individually identified impaired loans, which follows Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 310 (formerly SFAS 114).The second major component is an estimation of losses under ASC Topic 450 (formerly SFAS 5), which provides guidance for estimating losses on groups of loans with similar risk characteristics.The Company's methodology results in an allowance for loan losses which includes a specific reserve for impaired loans, an allocated reserve, and an unallocated portion. When analyzing groups of loans under ASC 450, the Bank follows the Interagency Policy Statement on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses.The methodology considers the Company's historical loss experience adjusted for changes in trends, conditions, and other relevant factors that affect repayment of the loans as of the evaluation date.These adjustment factors, known as qualitative factors, include: Delinquencies and nonaccruals Portfolio quality Concentration of credit Trends in volume of loans Quality of collateral Policy and procedures Experience, ability, and depth of management Economic trends national and local External factors competition, legal and regulatory The methodology includes the segregation of the loan portfolio into loan types with a further segregation into risk rating categories, such as special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss. This allows for an allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan type; however, the allowance is available to absorb any loan loss without restriction.Larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans representing significant individual credit exposures are evaluated individually through the internal loan review process.It is this process that produces the watch list.The borrower's overall financial condition, repayment sources, guarantors and value of collateral, if appropriate, are evaluated. Based on these reviews, an estimate of probable losses for the individual larger-balance loans is determined, whenever possible, and used to establish specific loan loss reserves.In general, for non-homogeneous loans not individually assessed and for homogeneous groups of loans, such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type, and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The watch list includes loans that are assigned a rating of special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss.Loans classified as special mention have potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention.If uncorrected, the potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects.Loans classified as substandard have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt.They include loans that are inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any.Loans classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in loans classified as substandard with the added characteristic that collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of current conditions and facts, is highly improbable.Loans rated as doubtful in whole, or in part, are placed in nonaccrual status.Loans classified as a loss are considered uncollectible and are charged-off against the allowance for loan losses. 52 The specific allowance for impaired loans is established for specific loans which have been identified by management as being impaired. These loans are considered to be impaired primarily because the loans have not performed according to payment terms and there is reason to believe that repayment of the loan principal in whole, or in part, is unlikely. The specific portion of the allowance is the total amount of potential unconfirmed losses for these individual impaired loans. To assist in determining the fair value of loan collateral, the Company often utilizes independent third party qualified appraisal firms, which employ their own criteria and assumptions that may include occupancy rates, rental rates, and property expenses, among others. The second category of reserves consists of the allocated portion of the allowance.The allocated portion of the allowance is determined by taking pools of outstanding loans that have similar characteristics and applying historical loss experience for each pool.This estimate represents the potential unconfirmed losses within the portfolio. Individual loan pools are created for commercial and commercial real estate loans, construction loans, warehouse lines of credit, and various types of loans to individuals.The historical estimation for each loan pool is then adjusted to account for current conditions, current loan portfolio performance, loan policy or management changes, or any other qualitative factor which may cause future losses to deviate from historical levels. The Company also maintains an unallocated allowance.The unallocated allowance is used to cover any factors or conditions which may cause a potential loan loss but are not specifically identifiable.It is prudent to maintain an unallocated portion of the allowance because no matter how detailed an analysis of potential loan losses is performed, these estimates by definition lack precision.Management must make estimates using assumptions and information that is often subjective and changing rapidly. The following discusses the risk characteristics of each of our loan portfolio segments-commercial, mortgage warehouse lines of credit, and consumer. Commercial The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans. Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values. Any one or a combination of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. Mortgage Warehouse Lines of Credit The Company's Mortgage Warehouse Unit provides revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and others. On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market. Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment. Additionally, customers of the warehouse lines of credit are required to maintain deposit relationships with the Bank that, on average, represent 10% to 12% of the loan balances. As a separate segment of the total portfolio, the warehouse loan portfolio is individually analyzed as a whole for allowance for loan loss purposes.Warehouse lines of credit are subject to the same inherent risks as other commercial lending, but the overall degree of risk differs. While the Company's loss experience with this type of lending has been non-existent since the product was introduced in 2008, there are other risks unique to this lending that still must be considered in assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. These unique risks may include, but are not limited to, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from the Bank, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of such mortgage bankers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under a warehouse line of credit, due to changes in interest rates during the time in warehouse, or (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans so originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker. These factors, along with the other qualitative factors such as economic trends, concentrations of credit, trends in the volume of loans, portfolio quality, delinquencies and nonaccruals, are also considered and may have positive or negative effects on the allocated allowance.The aggregate amount resulting from the application of these qualitative factors determines the overall risk for the portfolio and results in an allocated allowance for warehouse lines of credit. Consumer The Company's consumer loan segment is comprised of residential real estate loans, home equity loans and other loans to individuals. Individual loan pools are created for the various types of loans to individuals. 53 In general, for homogeneous groups such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type, and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The Company considers the following credit quality indicators in assessing the risk in the loan portfolio: Consumer credit scores Internal credit risk grades Loan-to-value ratios Collateral Collection experience The following table presents, for the periods indicated, an analysis of the allowance for loan losses and other related data. 54 The following table represents the allocation of the allowance for loan losses ("ALL") among the various categories of loans and certain other information as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively.The allocation is made for analytical purposes and is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which future losses may occur. The total allowance is available to absorb losses from any segment of loans. The Company recorded a provision for loan losses in the amount of $600,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to a provision in the amount of $5.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014.The Company recorded a provision for loan losses in the amount of $100,000 in the third quarter of 2015 due to the moderate level of net charge-offs, the Bank's stable loan quality trends over the last four quarters and management's assessment of the strengthening economic conditions in the Bank's markets.Net charge-offs amounted to $393,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. At September30, 2015, the allowance for loan losses was $7.1 million, a $207,000 increase from the allowance for loan losses at December31, 2014. As a percentage of total loans, the allowance was 1.01% at the end of the third quarter of 2015 compared to 1.06% at year-end 2014. The allowance for loan losses was 162% of non-accrual loans at September 30, 2015 compared to 143% of non-accrual loans at December 31, 2014. Management believes that the quality of the loan portfolio remains sound considering the economic climate in the State of New Jersey and that the allowance for loan losses is adequate in relation to credit risk exposure levels. With respect to the remaining acquired Rumson loans of $94.3 million at September 30, 2015, the remaining accretable general credit discount was $748,000 and the non-accretable credit discount was $546,000. Deposits Deposits, which include demand deposits (interest bearing and non-interest bearing), savings deposits and time deposits, are a fundamental and cost-effective source of funding.The flow of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, changes in market interest rates and competition.The Bank offers a variety of products designed to attract and retain customers, with the Bank's primary focus being on the building and expanding of long-term relationships. The following table summarizes deposits at September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. At September 30, 2015, total deposits were $793.8 million, a decrease of $23.9 million, or 2.9%, from $817.8 million at December 31, 2014.The decrease in deposits was due primarily to a decrease of $23.0 million in municipal deposits, a decrease in certificates of deposits and partially offset by increases in non-interest bearing demand and savings accounts. 55 Borrowings Borrowings are mainly comprised of Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") borrowings and overnight funds purchased.These borrowings are primarily used to fund asset growth not supported by deposit generation.The balance of borrowings was $65.2 million at September 30, 2015, consisting of $44.8 million in overnight borrowings from the FHLB and $20.4 million of long-term FHLB borrowings, compared to $25.1 million at December 31, 2014, consisting of $4.4 million of overnight borrowings from the FHLB and $20.7 million of long-term FHLB borrowings. Two long-term FHLB fixed rate convertible advances were assumed by the Bank as a result of the Rumson merger. These two advances total $10.0 million and bear interest at 4.11% and 4.63%, respectively. As a result of acquisition accounting, the two advances were fair valued and a premium of $1.0 million was assigned. The premium is amortized over the remaining term of the borrowings. The two advances had a carrying amount of $10.5 million at September 30, 2015. The Bank also has a fixed rate convertible advance from the FHLB in the amount of $10.0 million that bears interest at the rate of 4.08%.This advance may be called by the FHLB quarterly at the option of the FHLB if rates rise and the rate earned by the FHLB is no longer a "market" rate.This advance is fully secured by marketable securities. Shareholders' Equity and Dividends Shareholders' equity increased by $7.3 million, or 8.4%, to $94.4 million at September 30, 2015 from $87.1 million at December 31, 2014.Tangible book value per common share increased by $0.94 to $10.74 at September 30, 2015 from $9.80 at December 31, 2014. The ratio of average shareholders' equity to total average assets was 9.13% at September 30, 2015 compared to 8.62% at December 31, 2014. Shareholders' equity increased $7.3 million due to net income of $7.0 million, $183,000 from the exercise of stock options and the issuance of stock grants and $483,000 in share based compensation for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Partially offsetting these increases were treasury stock purchases in the amount of $273,000 and a decline in accumulated other comprehensive income of $108,000 during the period. In lieu of cash dividends to common shareholders, the Company (and its predecessor, the Bank) had declared a common stock dividend every year (except 2013 and 2014) since 1992 and has paid such dividends every year since 1993 (except 2014 due to the acquisition of Rumson).On February 20, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2015, which was paid on April 6, 2015.Per share amounts for the prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. The Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "FCCY." In 2005, the Company's board of directors authorized a common stock repurchase program that allows for the repurchase of a limited number of the Company's shares at management's discretion on the open market. The Company undertook this repurchase program in order to increase shareholder value. Disclosure of repurchases of Company shares made during the quarter ended September 30, 2015 is set forth under Part II, Item 2 of this report, "Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds." 56 Actual capital amounts and ratios for the Company and the Bank as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were as follows: In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implement the revised standards of Basel III and address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.The Federal Reserve Board's final rules and the FDIC's interim final rules apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more and top-tier savings and loan holding companies ("banking organizations"). Under Basel III Capital Rules, the initial minimum capital ratios effective as of January 1, 2015 are as follows: common equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets, Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% of risk weighted assets, total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8% and Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The rules also limit a banking organization's ability to pay dividends, engage in share repurchases or pay discretionary bonuses if the banking organization does not hold a "capital conservation buffer" consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements.The capital conservation buffer requirements will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and would increase by 0.625% until fully implemented in January 2019 at 2.50% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. At September 30, 2015, the capital ratios of the Company exceeded the minimum Basel III capital requirements.It is management's goal to monitor and maintain adequate capital levels to continue to support asset growth and the expansion of the Bank and to continue its status as a well-capitalized institution. 57 Liquidity At September 30, 2015, the amount of liquid assets and the Bank's access to off-balance sheet liquidity remained at a level management deemed adequate to ensure that contractual liabilities, depositors' withdrawal requirements, and other operational and customer credit needs could be satisfied. Liquidity management refers to the Company's ability to support asset growth while satisfying the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of customers.In addition to maintaining liquid assets, factors such as capital position, profitability, asset quality and availability of funding affect a bank's ability to meet its liquidity needs.On the asset side, liquid funds are maintained in the form of cash and cash equivalents, Federal funds sold, investment securities held to maturity maturing within one year, securities available for sale and loans held for sale.Additional asset-based liquidity is derived from scheduled loan repayments as well as investment repayments of principal and interest from mortgage-backed securities.On the liability side, the primary source of liquidity is the ability to generate core deposits.Short-term borrowings are used as supplemental funding sources when growth in the core deposit base does not keep pace with that of earnings assets. The Bank has established a borrowing relationship with the FHLB which further supports and enhances liquidity. During 2010, the FHLB replaced its Overnight Line of Credit and One-Month Overnight Repricing Line of Credit facilities available to member banks with a fully secured line of up to 50 percent of a bank's quarter-end total assets.Under the terms of this facility, the Bank's total credit exposure to the FHLB cannot exceed 50 percent, or $490.2 million, of its total assets at September 30, 2015.In addition, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Bank's advances, letters of credit, the dollar amount of the FHLB's minimum collateral requirement for off-balance sheet financial contracts and advance commitments cannot exceed 30 percent of the Bank's total assets, unless the Bank obtains approval from the FHLB's Board of Directors or its Executive Committee.These limits are further restricted by a member's ability to provide eligible collateral to support its obligations to the FHLB as well as the ability to meet the FHLB's stock requirement.At September 30, 2015, the Bank pledged collateral to the FHLB to support additional borrowings of $60.4 million.The Bank also maintains an unsecured federal funds line of $25.0 million with a correspondent bank. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows present the changes in cash from operating, investing and financing activities.At September 30, 2015, the balance of cash and cash equivalents was $14.9 million. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $12.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $10.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014.A source of funds is net income from operations adjusted for activity related to loans originated for sale and sold, the provision for loan losses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and net amortization of premiums and discounts on securities.Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was greater than net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 due primarily to higher net proceeds from the origination and sales of loans in 2015 compared to 2014. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $28.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $55.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014.The primary use of cash for the first nine months of 2015 was the net increase of loans of $56.5 million compared to a net increase in loans of $108.8 million for the first nine months of 2014. Net cash received from the acquisition of Rumson of $21.4 million reduced the net cash used for the first nine months of 2014. Net cash provided by financing activities was $16.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $4.0 million of net cash used by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014.The primary source of funds for the 2015 period wasthe increase in borrowed funds of $40.1 million, which was partially offset by the decrease in deposits of $23.9 million. The primary use of funds in th 2014 period was the decrease in deposits of $4.5 million. The securities portfolios are also a source of liquidity, providing cash flows from maturities and periodic repayments of principal.For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and September 30 2014, prepayments and maturities of investment securities totaled $42.2 million and $40.1 million, respectively.Another source of liquidity is the loan portfolio, which provides a flow of payments and maturities. 58 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The largest component of the Company's total income is net interest income, and the majority of the Company's financial instruments are composed of interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities with various terms and maturities. The primary objective of management is to maximize net interest income while minimizing interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is derived from timing differences and the magnitude of relative changes in the repricing of assets and liabilities, loan prepayments, deposit withdrawals, and differences in lending and funding rates. Management actively seeks to monitor and control the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Under the interest rate risk policy established by the Board of Directors, the Company established quantitative guidelines with respect to interest rate risk and how interest rate shocks are projected to affect net interest income and economic value of equity. Summarized below is the projected effect of a parallel shift of an increase of 200 and 300 basis points, respectively, in market interest rates on net interest income and economic value of equity. Based upon the current interest rate environment, as of September30, 2015 , sensitivity to interest rate risk was as follows: The Company employs many assumptions to calculate the impact of changes in interest rates on assets and liabilities, and actual results may not be similar to projections due to several factors, including the timing and frequency of rate changes, market conditions and the shape of the yield curve. Actual results may also differ due to actions, if any, in response to changing rates. In calculating these exposures, the Company utilized an interest rate simulation model which is validated by third-party reviewers on an annual basis.Item 1.Financial Statements. 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 1 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Income (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 2 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. (1) Included in salaries and employee benefits expense on the consolidated statements of income (2) Included in income taxes on the consolidated statements of income 3 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 4 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements ofCash Flows (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 5 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements March31, 2016 (Unaudited) (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include 1 ST Constitution Bancorp (the "Company"), its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., 204 South Newman Street Corp., and 249 New York Avenue, LLC. 1st Constitution Capital Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements, as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary.All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.The accounting and reporting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 , filed with the SEC on March 22, 2016. In the opinion of the Company, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) which are necessary for a fair presentation of the operating results for the interim periods have been included. The results of operations for periods of less than a year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. The Company has evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date of March31, 2016 for items that should potentially be recognized or disclosed in these financial statements.The evaluation was conducted through the date these financial statements were issued. On December 18, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 14, 2016, which was paid on February 1, 2016.As appropriate, common shares and per common share data presented in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes below have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. (2) Net Income Per Common Share Basic net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, as adjusted for the assumed exercise of dilutive common stock warrants and common stock options using the treasury stock method. The following tables illustrate the reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) calculations.Dilutive securities in the tables below exclude common stock options and warrants with exercise prices that exceed the average market price of the Company's common stock during the periods presented.Inclusion of these common stock options and warrants would be anti-dilutive to the diluted earnings per common share calculation. 6 For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , 20,585 and 73,290 options, respectively, were anti-dilutiveand were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share. 7 (3) Investment Securities Amortized cost, carrying value, gross unrealized gains and losses, and the fair value by security type are as follows: 8 Restricted stock is included in other assets at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 and totaled $1.6 million and $3.3 million , respectively, and consisted of $1.5 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at March 31, 2016 and $3.2 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at December 31, 2015. 9 Gross unrealized losses on available for sale and held to maturity securities and the fair value of the related securities aggregated by security category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: 10 The following table sets forth certain information regarding the amortized cost, carrying value, fair value, weighted average yields and contractual maturities of the Company's investment portfolio as of March31, 2016 .Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 11 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government sponsored corporations and agencies: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.The contractual terms of these investments do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the par value of the investment.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Residential collateralized mortgage obligations and residential mortgage backed securities: The unrealized losses on investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities were caused by increases in market interest rates. The contractual cash flows of these securities are guaranteed by the issuers, which are primarily government or government sponsored agencies. It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Obligations of state and political subdivisions: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment.None of the issuers have defaulted on interest payments. These investments are not considered to be other than temporarily impaired because the decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Corporate debt securities: The unrealized losses on investments in corporate debt securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.None of the corporate issuers have defaulted on interest payments. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not a decline in credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity. Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities single issuer :The investments in these securities with unrealized losses are comprised of four corporate trust preferred securities issued by two large financial institutions that mature in 2027. The contractual terms of the trust preferred securities do not allow the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the face value of the trust preferred securities, which is greater than the amortized cost of the trust preferred securities.One of the issuers continues to maintain an investment grade credit rating and neither has defaulted on interest payments.The decline in fair value is attributable to the widening of interest rate spreads and the lack of an active trading market for these securities and market concerns about the issuers' credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities pooled: This trust preferred debt security was issued by a two issuer pool (Preferred Term Securities XXV, Ltd. co-issued by Keefe, Bruyette and Woods, Inc. and First Tennessee ("PRETSL XXV")) consisting primarily of trust preferred debt securities issued by financial institution holding companies.During 2009, the Company recognized an other-than-temporary impairment of $865,000 , of which $364,000 was determined to be a credit loss and charged to operations and $501,000 was recognized in the other comprehensive income (loss) component of shareholders' equity. The primary factor used to determine the credit portion of the impairment loss recognized in the income statement for this security was the discounted present value of projected cash flow where that present value of cash flow was less than the amortized cost basis of the security.The present value of cash flow was developed using an EITF 99-20 model that considered performing collateral ratios, the level of subordination to senior tranches of the security, and credit ratings of and projected credit defaults in the underlying collateral. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates the security to determine if any additional other-than-temporary impairment is required.As of March31, 2016 , management concluded that no additional other-than-temporary impairment had occurred. 12 (4) Allowance for Loan Losses and Credit Quality Disclosure The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at March31, 2016 : The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at December31, 2015 : ` 13 As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired in the merger with Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company ("Rumson")with evidence of deteriorated credit quality of $477,000 at March31, 2016 and $489,000 at December31, 2015 were not classified as non-performing loans. The Company's internal credit risk grades are based on the definitions currently utilized by the banking regulatory agencies.The grades assigned and definitions are as follows, and loans graded excellent, above average, good and watch list are treated as "pass" for grading purposes: 1. Excellent - Loans that are based upon cash collateral held at the Bank and adequately margined. Loans that are based upon "blue chip" stocks listed on the major exchanges and adequately margined. 2. Above Average - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show excellent liquidity and long-term debt is on well-spread schedules of repayment easily covered by cash flow.Such companies have been consistently profitable and have diversification in their product lines or sources of revenue.The continuation of profitable operations for the foreseeable future is likely.Management is comprised of a mix of ages, experience, and backgrounds and management succession is in place.Sources of raw materials are abundant, and for service companies, the source of revenue is abundant.Future needs have been planned for.Character and ability of individuals or company principals are excellent.Loans to individuals are supported by high net worths and liquid assets. 3. Good - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show good liquidity and cash flow adequate to meet maturities of long-term debt with a comfortable margin.Such companies have established profitable records over a number of years, and there has been growth in net worth.Operating ratios are in line with those of the industry, and expenses are in proper relationship to the volume of business done and the profits achieved.Management is well-balanced and competent in their responsibilities.Economic environment is favorable; however, competition is strong.The prospects for growth are good.Loans in this category do not meet the collateral requirements of loans in categories 1 and 2 above. Loans to individuals are supported by good net worths but whose supporting assets are illiquid. 3w. Watch - Included in this category are loans evidencing problems identified by Bank management that require closer supervision.Such problem has not developed to the point which requires a Special Mention rating.This category also covers situations where the Bank does not have adequate current information upon which credit quality can be determined.The account officer has the obligation to correct these deficiencies within 30 days from the time of notification. 4. Special Mention - A "special mention" loan has potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in derterioration of the repayment prospects for the loan or in the Bank's credit position at some future date. Special mention loans are not adversely classified and do not expose the Bank to sufficient risk to warrant adverse classification. 5. Substandard - A "substandard" loan is inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or by the collateral pledged, if any. Loans so classified must have a well-defined weakness, or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the Bank will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. 6. Doubtful - A loan classified "doubtful" has all the weaknesses inherent in one classified substandard with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently known facts, conditions and values, highly questionable and improbable. 7. Loss - A loan classified "loss" is considered uncollectible and of such little value that its continuance on the books is not warranted. This classification does not mean that the loan has absolutely no recovery or salvage value, but rather it is not practical or desireable to defer writing off this basically worthless loan even though partial recovery may be affected in the future. 14 The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indictor at March31, 2016 : The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indictor at December31, 2015 : 15 Impaired Loans Disclosures Loans are considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is determined that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan contract, including scheduled interest payments.When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, it is also considered to be impaired.Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when: (1) the full collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain or (2) they are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal payments unless the loans are both well secured and in the process of collection. The following tables summarize the distribution of the allowance for loan losses and loans receivable by loan class and impairment method at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 : Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of March31, 2016 Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of December31, 2015 16 The activity in the allowance for loan loss by loan class for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 was as follows : (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Lines Residential Real Estate Loans to Individuals Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2015 $1,025 $2,005 $3,049 $866 $288 $109 $- $218 $7,560 Provision charged (credited) to operations (44 ) (657 ) 311 1 (96 ) (92 ) - 377 (200 ) Loans charged off - - (60 ) - - - - - (60 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - - - - - 2 - - 2 Balance - March31, 2016 $981 $1,348 $3,300 $867 $192 $19 $- $595 $7,302 (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Lines Residential Real Estate Loans to Individuals Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2014 $1,215 $1,761 $2,393 $896 $197 $129 $2 $332 $6,925 Provision charged (credited) to operations (98 ) 62 (4 ) 152 13 (13 ) - 388 500 Loans charged off - (62 ) - - - - - - (62 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - - - - - 1 - - 1 Balance - March31, 2015 $1,117 $1,761 $2,389 $1,048 $210 $117 $2 $720 $7,364 When a loan is identified as impaired, the measurement of impairment is based on the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, except when the sole remaining source of repayment for the loan is the liquidation of the collateral.In such cases, the current fair value of the collateral less selling costs is used.If the value of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, the impairment is recognized through an allowance estimate or a charge to the allowance. 17 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) March31, 2016 18 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) December31, 2015 19 20 Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans Purchased Credit-Impaired loans ("PCI") are loans acquired at a discount that is due in part to credit quality. The following table presents additional information regarding acquired credit-impaired loans at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 : Changes in accretable discount for purchased credit-impaired loans for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March31, 2015 were as follows: Consumer Mortgage Loans Secured by Residential Real Estate in Process of Foreclosure The following table summarizes the recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans secured by residential real estate in the process of foreclosure: In the normal course of business, the Bank may consider modifying loan terms for various reasons. These reasons may include as a retention strategy to compete in the current interest rate environment or as a re-amortization or extension of a loan term to better match the loan's repayment stream with the borrower's cash flow. A modified loan would be considered a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR") if the Bank grants a concession to a borrower and has determined that the borrower is troubled (i.e., experiencing financial difficulties). If the Bank restructures a loan to a troubled borrower, the loan terms (i.e., interest rate, payment, amortization period and maturity date) may be modified in various ways to enable the borrower to cover the modified debt service payments based on current financial statements and cash flow adequacy. If a borrower's hardship is thought to be temporary, then modified terms may only be offered for that time period. Where possible, the Bank would attempt to obtain additional collateral and/or secondary repayment sources at the time of the restructuring in order to put the Bank in the best possible position if the borrower is not able to meet the modified terms. The Bank will not offer modified terms if it believes that modifying the loan terms will only delay an inevitable permanent default. In evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, applicable guidance requires that a creditor must separately conclude that the restructuring constitutes a concession and the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties. There were no loans modified that were TDRs during the three months ended March 31, 2016 . For the year ended December31, 2015 , there was 1 loan with a recorded investment of $288,000 that was modified as a TDR.There were no troubled debt restructurings that subsequently defaulted within twelve months of restructuring during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and the year ended December31, 2015 . 21 (5) Share-Based Compensation The Company's share-based incentive plans ("Stock Plans") authorize the issuance of an aggregate of 459,322 shares of the Company's common stock (as adjusted for stock dividends) pursuant to awards that may be granted in the form of stock options to purchase common stock ("Options") and awards of shares of common stock ("Stock Awards").The purpose of the Stock Plans is to attract and retain personnel for positions of substantial responsibility and to provide additional incentive to certain officers, directors, employees and other persons to promote the success of the Company.Under the Stock Plans, options may have a term of not more than ten years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination in certain circumstances.Options are granted with an exercise price at the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant or otherwise as provided for in the Company's Stock Plans.The grant date fair value is calculated using the Black Scholes option valuation model. As of March31, 2016 , there were 239,665 shares of common stock available for future grants under the Stock Plans, of which 191,155 shares were available for future grants under the 2013 Equity Incentive Plan and 48,510 shares were available for future grant under the 2015 Directors Stock Plan. Stock-based compensation expense related to options was $11,000 and $12,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Transactions under the Stock Plans during the three months ended March 31, 2016 are summarized as follows: The fair value of each option and the significant weighted average assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the options granted for the three months ended March 31, 2016 are as follows: (1)To date, the Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock. As of March31, 2016 , there was approximately $99,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option-based compensation arrangements granted under the Company's stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over the next four years . 22 The following table summarizes the activity in non-vested restricted shares for the three months ended March 31, 2016 : The value of restricted shares is based upon the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. The shares generally vest over a 4 year service period with compensation expense recognized on a straight-line basis. Stock-based compensation expense related to stock grants was $159,000 and $129,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. As of March31, 2016 , there was approximately $1.4 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock grants.Compensation costs related to non-vested stock grants are recognized over four years from the date of grant. (6) Benefit Plans The Bank has a 401(k) plan which covers substantially all employees with six months or more of service.The 401(k) plan permits all eligible employees to make contributions to the plan up to the IRS salary deferral limit.The Bank's contributions to the 401(k) plan are expensed as incurred. The Company also provides retirement benefits to certain employees under supplemental executive retirement plans.The plans are unfunded and the Company accrues actuarially determined benefit costs over the estimated service period of the employees in the plans.The Company recognizes the over-funded or under-funded status of a defined benefit post-retirement plan as an asset or liability in itsbalance sheetand recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur, through comprehensive income. In connection with the benefit plans, the Bank has life insurance policies on the lives of its executives, directors and divisional officers. The Bank is the owner and beneficiary of the policies. The cash surrender values of the policies totaled approximately $21.7 million and $21.6 million at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The components of net periodic expense for the Company's supplemental executive retirement plans for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 23 (7) Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) is the total of (1) net income (loss), and (2) all other changes in equity from non-shareholder sources, which are referred to as other comprehensive income (loss).The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and the related tax effects, are as follows: Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows and are presented net of tax: 24 25 (8) Recent Accounting Pronouncements ASU Update 2016-09 Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09 "Compensation-Stock Compensation: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting" to simplify the accounting for stock compensation. The ASU focuses on income tax accounting, award classification, estimating forfeitures and cash flow presentation. The ASU also provides certain accounting policy alternatives to nonpublic entities. The ASU simplifies several aspects of the stock compensation guidance in Topic 718 and other related guidance. The following six amendments apply to all entities: (1) accounting for income taxes upon vesting or exercise of share-based payments and related EPS effects, (2) classification of excess tax benefits on the statement of cash flows, (3) accounting for forfeitures, (4) liability classification exception for statutory tax withholding requirements, (5) cash flow presentation of employee taxes paid when an employer withholds shares for tax-withholding purposes and (6) elimination of the indefinite deferral in Topic 718. For public business entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. For all other entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted for any entity in any interim or annual period for which the financial statements have not been issued or made available to be issued. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-02: Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 "Leases ." From the lessee's perspective, the new standard establishes a right- of-use ("ROU") model that requires a lessee to record a ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement for a lessee. From the lessor's perspective, the new standard requires a lessor to classify leases as either sales-type, finance or operating. A lease will be treated as a sale if it transfers all of the risks and rewards, as well as control of the underlying asset, to the lessee. If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as a financing. If the lessor doesn't convey risks and rewards or control, an operating lease results. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessors for sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-01 Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 "Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The guidance in the ASU, among other things, requires equity investments, with certain exceptions, to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment; eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet; requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes; requires an entity to present separately in other comprehensive income the portion of the change in fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments; requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the financial statements; and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale securities. The guidance in this ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 26 ASU Update 2015-16 Business Combination (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments. In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-16, "Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments," to require adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period to be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This includes any effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization or other income effects as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. The amendments in this update would require an entity to disclose (either on the face of the income statement or in the notes) the nature and amount of measurement-period adjustments recognized in the current period, including separately the amounts in current-period income statement line items that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. The amendments are effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015 and for all other entities for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2015 and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Adoption of this guidance in 2016 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU 2014-9 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-9, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." The objective of this amendment is to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP.This update affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of non-financial assets unless those contracts are in the scope of other standards.This ASU, which does not apply to financial instruments, is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that year. The Company does not anticipate a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements related to this guidance. ASU 2014-12 Accounting for Share-Based-Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved After the Requisite Service Period (a consensus of the FAS Emerging Issues Task Force). In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-12, "Accounting for Share-Based-Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved After the Requisite Service Period," which requires that a performance target included in a share-based payment award that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. This update is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The amendments can be applied prospectively to all awards granted or modified after the effective date or retrospectively to all awards with performance targets that are outstanding as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented and to all new or modified awards thereafter. Adoption of this guidance in 2016 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. (9) Fair Value Disclosures U.S. GAAP has established a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation methods used to measure fair value.The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical unrestricted assets or liabilities. Level 2: Quoted prices in markets that are not active, or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (i.e., supported with little or no market activity). An asset's or liability's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. A description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy, is set forth below.These valuation methodologies were applied to all of the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value. 27 In general, fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available.If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters.Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and counterparty creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters.Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time.The Company's valuation methodologies may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future values.While management believes the Company's valuation methodologies are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Securities Available for Sale .Securities classified as available for sale are reported at fair value utilizing quoted market prices on nationally recognized exchanges (Level 1) or by using Level 2 inputs.For Level 2 securities, the Company obtains fair value measurements from an independent pricing service.The fair value measurements consider observable data that may include dealer quotes, market spreads, cash flows, the U.S. Treasury yield curve, live trading levels, trade execution data, market consensus prepayments speeds, credit information and the security's terms and conditions, among other things. Impaired loans. Loans included in the following table are those which the Company has measured and recognized impairment, generally based on the fair value of the loan's collateral.Fair value is generally determined based upon independent third party appraisals of the collateral or discounted cash flows based on the expected proceeds.These assets are included as Level 3 fair values, based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements.The fair value consists of the loan balances less specific valuation allowances. Other Real Estate Owned. Foreclosed properties are adjusted to fair value less estimated selling costs at the time of foreclosure in preparation for transfer from portfolio loans to other real estate owned ("OREO"), establishing a new accounting basis. The Company subsequently adjusts the fair value of the OREO utilizing Level 3 inputs on a non-recurring basis to reflect partial write-downs based on the observable market price, current appraised value of the asset or other estimates of fair value. The fair value of other real estate owned is determined using appraisals, which may be discounted based on management's review and changes in market conditions. The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis segregated by the level of the valuation inputs within the fair value hierarchy utilized to measure fair value: 28 Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment).Assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at March31, 2016 consisted of 8 loans having an aggregate recorded investment of $4.0 million and specific loan loss allowances of $216,000 .Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at December 31, 2015 consisted of 9 loans having an aggregate balance of $4.3 million with a specific loan loss allowance of $300,000 . The following table presents additional qualitative information about assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, and for which the Company has utilized Level 3 inputs to determine fair value: (1) Fair value is generally determined through independent appraisals of the underlying collateral, which generally include various Level 3 inputs which are not identifiable. (2) Includes qualitative adjustments by management and estimated liquidation expenses. 29 The following is a summary of fair value versus carrying value of all of the Company's financial instruments.For the Company and the Bank, as with most financial institutions, the bulk of their assets and liabilities are considered financial instruments.Many of the financial instruments lack an available trading market as characterized by a willing buyer and willing seller engaging in an exchange transaction.Therefore, significant estimations and present value calculations were used for the purpose of this note.Changes in assumptions could significantly affect these estimates. Estimated fair values have been determined by using the best available data and an estimation methodology suitable for each category of financial instruments as follows: Cash and Cash Equivalents, Accrued Interest Receivable and Accrued Interest Payable (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accrued interest receivable and accrued interest payable approximate fair value. Securities Held to Maturity (Carried at Amortized Cost). The fair values of securities held to maturity are determined in the same manner as for securities available for sale. Loans Held For Sale (Carried at Lower of Aggregated Cost or Fair Value). The fair values of loans held for sale are determined, when possible, using quoted secondary market prices. If no such quoted market prices exist, fair values are determined using quoted prices for similar loans, adjusted for the specific attributes of the loans. Gross Loans Receivable (Carried at Cost). The fair values of loans, excluding impaired loans subject to specific loss reserves, are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses that use market rates at the balance sheet date that reflect the credit and interest rate-risk inherent in the loans.Projected future cash flows are calculated based upon contractual maturity or call dates, projected repayments and prepayments of principal.Generally, for variable rate loans that re-price frequently and with no significant change in credit risk, fair values are based on carrying values. Deposit Liabilities (Carried at Cost). The fair values disclosed for demand deposits (e.g., interest and non-interest demand and savings accounts) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts).Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered in the market on certificates of deposit to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits. Borrowings and Subordinated Debt (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values. The fair values of long-term FHLB advances are estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, based on quoted or estimated interest rates for new borrowings with similar credit risk characteristics, terms and remaining maturity. For subordinated debt, which reprices quarterly, the fair value is based on the carrying value. The estimated fair values and carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: 30 Loan commitments and standby letters of credit as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 were based on fees charged for similar agreements; accordingly, the estimated fair value of loan commitments and standby letters of credit was nominal. 31 Item 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis of the operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and financial condition at March31, 2016 is intended to help readers analyze the accompanying financial statements, notes and other supplemental information contained in this document. Results of operations for the three month period ended March31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of results to be attained for any other period. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, notes and tables included elsewhere in this report and Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Form 10-K (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation) for the year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 22, 2016. General Throughout the following sections, the "Company" refers to 1 ST Constitution Bancorp and, as the context requires, its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., LLC, 204 South Newman Street Corp. and 249 New York Avenue, LLC.1 ST Constitution Capital Trust II ("Trust II"), a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary. Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, was created in May 2006 to issue trust preferred securities to assist the Company in raising additional capital. The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Company was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in February 1999 for the purpose of acquiring all of the issued and outstanding stock of the Bank, a full service commercial bank which began operations in August 1989, thereby enabling the Bank to operate within a bank holding company structure. The Company became an active bank holding company on July 1, 1999. Other than its ownership interest in the Bank, the Company currently conducts no other significant business activities. The Bank operates nineteen branches and manages an investment portfolio through its subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc.FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of the Bank, is used by the Bank to manage and dispose of repossessed real estate. When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three month period ended March 31, 2016 (this "Form 10-Q"), the words "the Company," "we," "our," and "us" refer to 1st Constitution Bancorp and its wholly owned subsidiaries, unless we indicate otherwise. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements.When used in this and in future filings by the Company with the SEC, in the Company's press releases and in oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer of the Company, the words or phrases "will," "will likely result," "could," "anticipates," "believes," "continues," "expects," "plans," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimated," "project" or "outlook" or similar expressions (including confirmations by an authorized executive officer of the Company of any such expressions made by a third party with respect to the Company) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Companycautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, each of which speaks only as of the date made.Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from those results expressed or implied, include, but are not limited to, those listed under "Business", "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 22, 2016, such as the overall economy and the interest rate environment; the ability of customers to repay their obligations; the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; competition; significant changes in accounting, tax or regulatory practices and requirements; certain interest rate risks; risks associated with investments in mortgage-backed securities;risks associated with speculative construction lending; and risks associated with safeguarding information technology systems. Although management has taken certain steps to mitigate any negative effect of the aforementioned items, significant unfavorable changes could severely impact the assumptions used and could have an adverse effect on profitability. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements, except as required by law. 32 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Summary The Company reported net income of $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, a decrease of $38,000, or 1.7%, compared to net income of $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Net income per diluted share was $0.27 for the first quarter of 2016, a 3.6% decrease compared to net income per diluted share of $0.28 for the first quarter of 2015, and declined due to the decrease in net income in 2016 and the higher number of average diluted shares outstanding in 2016. Return on average assets and return on average equity were 0.94% and 9.20%, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to return on average assets and return on average equity of 0.95% and 10.42%, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Book value and tangible book value per share were $12.42 and $10.76, respectively at March 31, 2016. First Quarter Highlights Net income was $2.2 million in the first quarter of 2016, a decrease of $38,000 from $2.3 million in the first quarter of 2015. Net interest income was $8.5 million in the first quarter of 2016 and 2015, and the net interest margin was 3.93% and 3.96% on a tax equivalent basis for the respective periods. Loans held in portfolio were $659.0 million at March 31, 2016 and the loan to asset ratio was 69.4% at March 31, 2016. During the first quarter of 2016, $734,000 of non-performing assets were resolved and non-performing assets declined to $6.7 million and 0.70% of assets from $7.0 million and 0.72% of assets, respectively, at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. The Bank recorded a credit (negative) provision for loan losses of $200,000 in the first quarter of 2016 due to lower loan loss reserve factors that reflected the improvement in loan credit quality, the reduction of non-performing loans and the low level of net charge-offs over the last five quarters and the decline in total loans, primarily mortgage warehouse loans. Earnings Analysis The Bank's results of operations depend primarily on net interest income, which is primarily affected by the market interest rate environment, the shape of the U.S. Treasury yield curve, and the difference between the yield on interest-earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities.Other factors that may affect the Bank's operating results are general and local economic and competitive conditions, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. Net Interest Income Net interest income, the Company's largest and most significant component of operating income, is the difference between interest and fees earned on loans and other earning assets and interest paid on deposits and borrowed funds. This component represented 84.2% of the Company's net revenues (defined as net interest income plus non-interest income) for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to 80.0% of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Net interest income also depends upon the relative amount of average interest-earning assets, average interest-bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned or paid on them, respectively. The following tables set forth the Company's consolidated average balances of assets and liabilities and shareholders' equity as well as interest income and expense on related items, and the Company's average yield or rate for the three month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. The average rates are derived by dividing interest income and expense by the average balance of assets and liabilities, respectively. 33 (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. (4) Tax- equivalent basis. The tax equivalent adjustment was $250 and $286 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, respectively. 34 Net interest income was $8.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, which represented a slight decrease of $33,000 compared to $8.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. Total interest income earned on loans, investment securities and short-term investments was relatively unchanged for the two quarterly periods. The decrease in net interest income was due primarily to a $41,000 increase in interest expense in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. The increase in the average cost of interest bearing liabilities to 0.70% in the first quarter of 2016 primarily reflected a change in the mix of deposits with an increase in higher interest cost savings deposits and a decrease in lower interest cost money market and NOW accounts compared to the first quarter of 2015. In addition, the interest cost of short-term borrowings and the interest cost of the floating rate trust preferred securities increased due to the increase in short-term market interest rates. The Federal Reserve Board increased the targeted federal funds rate in December 2015 by 25 basis points, which impacted short-term market rates in the first quarter of 2016. The net interest margin, on a tax-equivalent basis, was 3.93% and declined as a result of the higher interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to 3.96% for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Average interest-earning assets decreased by $6.6 million, or 0.74%, to $895.9 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2016 from $902.6 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 due to the decrease in investment securities.The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, increased 2 basis points to 4.49% for the three month period ended March 31, 2016 when compared to 4.47% for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 due primarily to the increase in the average balance of the mortgage warehouse lines utilized for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2015. Average interest-bearing liabilities decreased by $18.1 million, or 2.6%, to $689.4 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2016 from $707.5 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 due primarily to decreases in certificates of deposit. Overall, the cost of total interest-bearing liabilities increased 4 basis points to 0.70% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from 0.66% for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Provision for Loan Losses Management considers a complete review of the following specific factors in determining the provisions for loan losses: historical losses by loan category, the level of non-accrual loans and problem loans as identified through internal review and classification, collateral values and the growth and size of the loan portfolio. In addition to these factors, management takes into consideration current economic conditions and local real estate market conditions. In general, over the last two years, the Bank experienced an improvement in loan credit quality and achieved a steady resolution of non-performing loans and assets related to the severe recession, which was reflected in the current lower level of non-performing loans at March 31, 2016. During the last five quarters, the amount of net charge-offs declined significantly, which resulted in a reduction of the historical loss factors for certain segments of the loan portfolio that were applied by management to estimate the allowance for loan losses at March 31, 2016. In addition, loans declined by $23.1 million, primarily mortgage warehouse loans, during the first quarter of 2016. The lower historical loss factors and the decline in loans resulted in a lower estimated allowance for loan losses of $7.3 million at March 31, 2016. Accordingly, a credit (negative) provision for loan losses of $200,000 was recorded for the first quarter of 2016. At March 31, 2016, non-performing loans decreased by $496,000, or 8.2%, to $5.5 million from $6.0 million at December 31, 2015 and the ratio of non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.84% at March 31, 2016 compared to 0.88% at December31, 2015. Non-Interest Income Total non-interest income was $1.6 million for the first quarter of 2016, a decrease of $535,000, or 25.1%, compared to $2.1 million for the first quarter of 2015. The Bank originates and sells commercial loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration ("SBA") and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. Lower gains of $903,000 from the sales of residential mortgages and SBA loans for the first quarter of 2016 compared to gains of $1.3 million in the first quarter of 2015 were the primary reasons for the decrease in non-interest income. 35 In the first quarter of 2015, management observed a higher level of residential mortgage refinancing activity which was attributed to the reduction of mortgage insurance premiums by the FHA and lower residential mortgage interest rates. In the first quarter of 2016, residential mortgage interest rates were similar to residential mortgage interest rates in the first quarter of 2015, but refinancing activity was lower because management believes that many borrowers took advantage of lower interest rates and refinanced their mortgages in 2015. As a result, residential lending activity was lower in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. In the first quarter of 2016, $24 million of residential mortgages were sold and $421,000 of gains were recorded compared to $35 million of loans sold and $608,000 of gains recorded in the first quarter of 2015. Residential mortgage lending activity is anticipated to be lower in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 due to lower anticipated refinancing activity by borrowers and unplanned turnover of the Bank's residential loan officers. Management is actively recruiting new residential lending personnel. SBA guaranteed commercial lending activity and loan sales vary from period to period. In the first quarter of 2016, $5.3 million of SBA loans were sold and gains of $482,000 were recorded compared to $6.7 million of loans sold and gains of $684,000 recorded in the first quarter of 2015. Service charge revenues decreased to $197,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $239,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 due to a lower volume of service charges and overdraft fees collected on deposit accounts during the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. Non-interest income also includes income from bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI"), which amounted to $144,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $134,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box rental fees, wire transfer service fees and automated teller machine fees for non-Bank customers. The other income component of non-interest income decreased to $350,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $464,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 due to lower customer transaction activity. Non-Interest Expenses Non-interest expenses were $7.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, an increase of $177,000, or 2.6%, compared to $6.9 million for the first quarter of 2015. Non-interest expenses increased in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 due primarily to a $130,000, or 3.1%, increase in salaries and employee benefits expense and an increase in other operating expenses of $315,000, which were partially offset by decreases in other various expense categories. The following table presents the major components of non-interest expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: ` 36 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, increased by $130,000, or 3.1%, to $4.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase in salaries and employee benefits was a result of staffing changes, regular merit increases and increases in benefit costs. Full time equivalent employees at March 31, 2016 decreased to 172.5 as compared to 179 full time equivalent employees at March 31, 2015. Occupancy expense decreased by $122,000, or 11.0%, to $988,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015.The decrease for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2015 was due to lower depreciation and facilities maintenance expenses. The cost of data processing services decreased slightly to $313,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $319,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015, reflecting the cost containment and operating scale obtained through the integration of the former Rumson operations. FDIC insurance expense decreased $72,000 to $118,000 for the three months ended March 31 2016 compared to $190,000 for the three months ended March 31 2015 primarily due to a lower assessment rate that reflects the improvement in asset quality and the financial performance of the Bank in the last five quarters. Other real estate owned expenses decreased by $68,000 to $29,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $97,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 due to the significant reduction in other real estate owned assets. At March 31, 2016, the Company held two properties with an aggregate value of $1.1 million as other real estate owned compared to three properties with an aggregate value of $5.7 million at March 31, 2015. Regulatory, professional and other fees increased by $79,000, or 76.0%, to $183,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $104,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 due primarily to an increase in consulting and examination fees related to the outsourcing of the internal audit function and additional costs incurred in preparing the Company to comply with its internal control attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Other expenses increased by $319,000 to $913,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $594,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 due primarily to a $220,000 lower net deferral of loan origination costs in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. The lower level of mortgage warehouse funding activity of $806.0 million in the 2016 period compared to $870.0 in the 2015 period was the primary reason there was a lower net deferral of loan origination expenses in the 2016 period compared to the 2015 period.The balance of the increase in other operating expenses reflected additional operating costs to support the growth and expansion of the Bank's operations. 37 Income Taxes Pre-tax income decreased $45,000 to $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to pre-tax income of $3.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The Company recorded income tax expense of $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 32.0%, compared to income tax expense of $1.1 million and an effective tax rate of 31.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The decrease in income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to the lower amount of pre-tax income in the period compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015. Financial Condition March31, 2016 Compared with December31, 2015 Total consolidated assets at March 31, 2016 were $949.0 million, representing a decrease of $19.0 million, or 2.0%, from total consolidated assets of $968.0 million at December 31, 2015.The decrease in assets was primarily attributable to a $22.9 million decrease in net loans and a decrease of $38.6 million in borrowed funds which was partially offset by an increase in deposits of $17.1 million. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2016 totaled $14.8 million compared to $11.4 million at December 31, 2015, an increase of $3.4 million, or 30.3%. To the extent that the Bank does not utilize funds for loan originations or securities purchases, the cash inflows are invested in overnight deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Loans Held for Sale Loans held for sale at March 31, 2016 were $860,000 compared to $6.0 million at December 31, 2015. As indicated in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, residential mortgage loans originated for sale were $18.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $34.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Residential mortgage interest rates in the first quarter of 2016 were similar to rates in the first quarter of 2015; however, refinancing activity was lower in the 2016 period because management believed many borrowers took advantage of lower interest rates and refinanced their mortgages in 2015.The amount of loans held for sale varies from period to period due to changes in the amount and timing of sales of residential mortgages. 38 Investment Securities Investment securities represented approximately 23.5% of total assets at March 31, 2016 and approximately 22.2% of total assets at December 31, 2015. Total investment securities increased $8.1 million, or 3.8%, to $222.8 million at March 31, 2016 from $214.7 million at December 31, 2015. Purchases of investment securities totaled $22.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016, and proceeds from calls, maturities and repayments totaled $17.4 million during the period. Securities available for sale are investments that may be sold in response to changing market and interest rate conditions or for other business purposes.Activity in this portfolio is undertaken primarily to manage liquidity and interest rate risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create economically attractive returns.At March 31, 2016, securities available for sale totaled $99.8 million, an increase of $8.4 million, or 9.2%, compared to securities available for sale totaling $91.4 million at December 31, 2015. At March 31, 2016, the securities available for sale portfolio had net unrealized gains of $722,000 compared to net unrealized gains of $203,000 at December 31, 2015.These unrealized gains were reflected, net of tax, in shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Securities held to maturity, which are carried at amortized historical cost, are investments for which there is the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity.At March 31, 2016, securities held to maturity were $123.0 million, a decrease of $251,000 from $123.3 million at December 31, 2015.The fair value of the held to maturity portfolio at March 31, 2016 was $127.8 million. Loans The loan portfolio, which represents the Bank's largest asset, is a significant source of both interest and fee income. Elements of the loan portfolio are subject to differing levels of credit and interest rate risk. The Bank's primary lending focus continues to be mortgage warehouse lines, construction loans, commercial loans, owner-occupied commercial mortgage loans and commercial real estate loans on income producing assets. The following table represents the components of the loan portfolio at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 : The loan portfolio decreased by $23.1 million, or 3.4%, to $659.0 million at March 31, 2016 compared to $682.1 million at December 31, 2015. Mortgage warehouse lines' outstanding balances decreased $23.8 million to $192.7 million compared to $216.6 million at December 31, 2015, reflecting lower levels of residential mortgage originations by the Bank's mortgage banking customers that were due to a decrease in refinance activity. The decrease in this portfolio segment was the primary driver of the decrease in the loan portfolio. The Bank's mortgage warehouse funding group provides revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to finance the origination of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association.On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market.Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment. 39 Commercial business loans increased $5.7 million, or 5.7%, during the first three months of 2016. Commercial loans consist primarily of loans to small and middle market businesses and are typically working capital loans used to finance inventory, receivables or equipment needs. These loans are generally secured by business assets of the commercial borrower. Commercial real estate loans decreased $4.5 million, or 2.2%, during the first three months of 2016. Commercial real estate loans consistprimarily of loans to businesses collateralized by real estate employed in the business and loans to finance income producing properties. Construction loans were unchanged at $93.8 million during the first three months of 2016. Construction financing is provided to businesses to expand their facilities and operations and to real estate developers for the acquisition, development and construction of residential properties primarily and income producing properties secondarily. First mortgage construction loans are made to developers and builders primarily for single family homes or multi-family buildings that are presold, or are to be sold or leased on a speculative basis. The Bank lends to developers and builders with established relationships, successful operating histories and sound financial resources. The Bank also finances the construction of individual, owner-occupied single family homes. These loans are made to qualified individual borrowers and are generally supported by a take-out commitment from a permanent lender. The ability of the Company to enter into larger loan relationships and management's philosophy of relationship banking are key factors in the Company's strategy for loan growth.The ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and recovery of the carrying amount of real estate are subject to changes in the economic environment and real estate market in the Company's market region. 40 Non-Performing Assets Non-performing assets consist of non-performing loans and other real estate owned. Non-performing loans are composed of (1) loans on a non-accrual basis and (2) loans which are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest and principal payments but which have not been classified as non-accrual. Included in non-accrual loans are loans whose terms have been restructured to provide a reduction or deferral of interest and/or principal because of deterioration in the financial position of the borrower and which have not performed in accordance with the restructured terms. The Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans is that, generally, loans are placed on a non-accrual status when they are 90 days past due, unless these loans are well secured and in process of collection or, regardless of the past due status of the loan, when management determines that the complete recovery of principal or interest is in doubt.Consumer loans are generally charged off after they become 120 days past due.Subsequent payments on loans in non-accrual status are credited to income only if collection of principal is not in doubt. Non-accrual loans decreased $496,000 to $5.5 million at March 31, 2016 from $6.0 million at December 31, 2015.The major segments of non-accrual loans consist of commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans, which are in the process of collection.The table below sets forth non-performing assets and risk elements in the Bank's portfolio for the periods indicated. Non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.84% at March 31, 2016 from 0.88% at December 31, 2015 principally due to the improvement in loan credit quality and a decrease in non-performing loans.Loan quality is considered to be sound. This was accomplished through quality loan underwriting, a proactive approach to loan monitoring and aggressive workout strategies. Non-performing assets decreased by $318,000 to $6.7 million at March 31, 2016 from $7.0 million at December 31, 2015.Other real estate owned totaled $1.1 million at March 31, 2016 compared to $966,000 at December 31, 2015.OREO at March 31, 2016 was comprised of one residential single family home for $1.0 million and one commercial real estate property for $142,000. At March 31, 2016, the Bank had ten loans totaling $4.2 million which were troubled debt restructurings.Three of these loans totaling $3.1 million are included in the above table as non-accrual loans; the remaining seven loans totaling $1.0 million are considered performing. As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired with evidence of deteriorated credit quality of $477,000 at March 31, 2016 were not classified as non-performing loans. Non-performing assets represented 0.70% of total assets at March 31, 2106 compared to 0.72% of total assets at December 31, 2015. Management takes a proactive approach in addressing delinquent loans. The Company's President and Chief Executive Officer meets weekly with all loan officers to review the status of credits past-due 10 days or more. An action plan is discussed for delinquent loans to determine the steps necessary to induce the borrower to cure the delinquency and restore the loan to a current status. In addition, delinquency notices are system-generated when loans are five days past-due and again at 15 days past-due. 41 In most cases, the Company's collateral is real estate. If the collateral is foreclosed upon, the real estate is carried at fair market value less the estimated selling costs. The amount, if any, by which the recorded amount of the loan exceeds the fair market value of the collateral, less estimated selling costs, is a loss which is charged to the allowance for loan losses at the time of foreclosure or repossession. Resolution of a past-due loan through foreclosure can be delayed if the borrower files a bankruptcy petition because a collection action cannot be continued unless the Company first obtains relief from the automatic stay provided by the bankruptcy code. Changes in other real estate owned during the three months ended March 31, 2016 consisted of the transfer of one commercial real estate property with a fair value of $142,000 into other real estate owned and an increase to the value of one residential real estate property held as other real estate owned for improvements of $36,000. 42 Allowance for Loan Losses and Related Provision The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level sufficient to absorb estimated credit losses in the loan portfolio as of the date of the financial statements.The allowance for loan losses is a valuation reserve available for losses incurred or inherent in the loan portfolio and other extensions of credit.The determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is a critical accounting policy of the Company. The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. All, or part, of the principal balance of commercial and commercial real estate loans and construction loans are charged off against the allowance as soon as it is determined that the repayment of all, or part, of the principal balance is highly unlikely.Consumer loans are generally charged off no later than 120 days past due on a contractual basis, earlier in the event of bankruptcy, or if there is an amount deemed uncollectible . Because all identified losses are charged off, no portion of the allowance for loan losses is restricted to any individual loan or groups of loans and the entire allowance is available to absorb any and all loan losses. Management reviews the adequacy of the allowance on at least a quarterly basis to ensure that the provision for loan losses has been charged against earnings in an amount necessary to maintain the allowance at a level that is adequate based on management's assessment of probable estimated losses. The Company's methodology for assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses consists of several key elements and is consistent with U.S. GAAP and interagency supervisory guidance.The allowance for loan losses methodology consists of two major components.The first component is an estimation of losses associated with individually identified impaired loans, which follows Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 310 (formerly SFAS 114).The second major component is an estimation of losses under ASC Topic 450 (formerly SFAS 5), which provides guidance for estimating losses on groups of loans with similar risk characteristics.The Company's methodology results in an allowance for loan losses which includes a specific reserve for impaired loans, an allocated reserve and an unallocated portion. When analyzing groups of loans under ASC 450, the Bank follows the Interagency Policy Statement on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses.The methodology considers the Company's historical loss experience adjusted for changes in trends, conditions, and other relevant factors that affect repayment of the loans as of the evaluation date.These adjustment factors, known as qualitative factors, include: Delinquencies and non-accruals Portfolio quality Concentration of credit Trends in volume of loans Quality of collateral Policy and procedures Experience, ability, and depth of management Economic trends national and local External factors competition, legal and regulatory The methodology includes the segregation of the loan portfolio into loan types with a further segregation into risk rating categories, such as special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss. This allows for an allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan type; however, the allowance is available to absorb any loan loss without restriction.Larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans representing significant individual credit exposures are evaluated individually through the internal loan review process.It is this process that produces the watch list.The borrower's overall financial condition, repayment sources, guarantors and value of collateral, if appropriate, are evaluated. Based on these reviews, an estimate of probable losses for the individual larger-balance loans is determined, whenever possible, and used to establish specific loan loss reserves.In general, for non-homogeneous loans not individually assessed and for homogeneous groups of loans, such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type, and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The watch list includes loans that are assigned a rating of special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss.Loans classified as special mention have potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention.If uncorrected, the potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects.Loans classified as substandard have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt.They include loans that are inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any.Loans classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in loans classified as substandard with the added characteristic that collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of current conditions and facts, is highly improbable.Loans rated as doubtful in whole, or in part, are placed in non-accrual status.Loans classified as a loss are considered uncollectible and are charged-off against the allowance for loan losses. 43 The specific allowance for impaired loans is established for specific loans which have been identified by management as being impaired. These loans are considered to be impaired primarily because the loans have not performed according to payment terms and there is reason to believe that repayment of the loan principal in whole, or in part, is unlikely. The specific portion of the allowance is the total amount of potential unconfirmed losses for these individual impaired loans. To assist in determining the fair value of loan collateral, the Company often utilizes independent third party qualified appraisal firms, which employ their own criteria and assumptions that may include occupancy rates, rental rates, and property expenses, among others. The second category of reserves consists of the allocated portion of the allowance.The allocated portion of the allowance is determined by taking pools of outstanding loans that have similar characteristics and applying historical loss experience for each pool.This estimate represents the potential unconfirmed losses within the portfolio. Individual loan pools are created for commercial and commercial real estate loans, construction loans, warehouse lines of credit, and various types of loans to individuals.The historical estimation for each loan pool is then adjusted to account for current conditions, current loan portfolio performance, loan policy or management changes, or any other qualitative factor which may cause future losses to deviate from historical levels. The Company also maintains an unallocated allowance.The unallocated allowance is used to cover any factors or conditions which may cause a potential loan loss but are not specifically identifiable.It is prudent to maintain an unallocated portion of the allowance because no matter how detailed an analysis of potential loan losses is performed, these estimates by definition lack precision.Management must make estimates using assumptions and information that is often subjective and changing rapidly. The following discusses the risk characteristics of each of our loan portfolio segments-commercial, mortgage warehouse lines of credit, and consumer. Commercial The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans. Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values. Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. Mortgage Warehouse Lines of Credit The Company's Mortgage Warehouse Unit provides revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and others. On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market. Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment. As a separate segment of the total portfolio, the warehouse loan portfolio is individually analyzed as a whole for allowance for loan loss purposes.Warehouse lines of credit are subject to the same inherent risks as other commercial lending, but the overall degree of risk differs. While the Company's loss experience with this type of lending has been non-existent since the product was introduced in 2008, there are other risks unique to this lending that still must be considered in assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. These unique risks may include, but are not limited to, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from the Bank, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of such mortgage bankers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under a warehouse line of credit, due to changes in interest rates during the time in warehouse, or (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans so originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker. These factors, along with the other qualitative factors such as economic trends, concentrations of credit, trends in the volume of loans, portfolio quality, delinquencies and non-accruals, are also considered and may have positive or negative effects on the allocated allowance.The aggregate amount resulting from the application of these qualitative factors determines the overall risk for the portfolio and results in an allocated allowance for warehouse lines of credit. Consumer The Company's consumer loan segment is comprised of residential real estate loans, home equity loans and other loans to individuals. Individual loan pools are created for the various types of loans to individuals. 44 In general, for homogeneous groups such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The Company considers the following credit quality indicators in assessing the risk in the loan portfolio: Consumer credit scores Internal credit risk grades Loan-to-value ratios Collateral Collection experience The following table presents, for the periods indicated, an analysis of the allowance for loan losses and other related data: 45 The following table represents the allocation of the allowance for loan losses ("ALL") among the various categories of loans and certain other information as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.The allocation is made for analytical purposes and is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which future losses may occur. The total allowance is available to absorb losses from any segment of loans. The Company recorded a credit (negative) provision for loan losses in the amount of $200,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to a provision in the amount of $500,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015.The Company recorded a credit to the provision for loan losses in the amount of $200,000 in the first quarter of 2016 due to lower loss factors resulting from the resolution and reduction of non-performing loans, the improvement in loan credit quality and the low level of charge-offs over the past five quarters.Net charge-offs amounted to $58,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to net charge-offs of $61,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. At March 31, 2016, the allowance for loan losses was $7.3 million, a $258,000 decrease from the allowance for loan losses at December31, 2015. As a percentage of total loans, the allowance was 1.11% at the end of the first quarter of 2016 and year-end 2015. The allowance for loan losses was 132% of non-accrual loans at March 31, 2016 compared to 126% of non-accrual loans at December 31, 2015. Management believes that the quality of the loan portfolio remains sound considering the economic climate in the State of New Jersey and that the allowance for loan losses is adequate in relation to credit risk exposure levels. Deposits Deposits, which include demand deposits (interest bearing and non-interest bearing), savings deposits and time deposits, are a fundamental and cost-effective source of funding.The flow of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, changes in market interest rates and competition.The Bank offers a variety of products designed to attract and retain customers, with the Bank's primary focus on the building and expanding of long-term relationships. The following table summarizes deposits at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 . At March 31, 2016, total deposits were $803.8 million, an increase of $17.1 million, or 2.2%, from $786.8 million at December 31, 2015.The increase in deposits was due primarily to an increase of $9.1 million in interest bearing demand deposits, an increase of $8.7 million in savings deposits and an increase of $2.2 million in non-interest bearing demand deposits, which were partially offset by a decrease of $2.9 million in time deposits. 46 Borrowings Borrowings are mainly comprised of Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") borrowings and overnight funds purchased.These borrowings are primarily used to fund asset growth not supported by deposit generation.The balance of borrowings was $20.3 million at March 31, 2016, consisting of $20.3 million of long-term FHLB borrowings, compared to $58.9 million at December 31, 2015, which consisted of $38.6 million of overnight borrowings from the FHLB and $20.3 million of long-term FHLB borrowings. Shareholders' Equity and Dividends Shareholders' equity increased by $2.7 million, or 2.8%, to $98.6 million at March 31, 2016 from $96.0 million at December 31, 2015.Tangible book value per common share increased by $0.32 to $10.76 at March 31, 2016 from $10.44 at December 31, 2015. The ratio of average shareholders' equity to total average assets was 10.20% at March 31, 2016 compared to 9.34% at December 31, 2015. Shareholders' equity increased $2.7 million due to net income of $2.2 million, an increase of $315,000 in accumulated other comprehensive income, and $170,000 in share based compensation, which were partially offset by $24,000 in treasury stock purchases for the three months ended March 31, 2016. In lieu of cash dividends to common shareholders, the Company (and its predecessor, the Bank) has paid common stock dividends every year since 1993 (except 2014 due to the acquisition of Rumson).On December 18, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 14, 2016, which was paid on February 1, 2016.Per share amounts for the prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. The Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "FCCY." On January 21, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized a new common stock repurchase program. Under the new common stock repurchase program, the Company may repurchase in open market or privately negotiated transactions up to five (5%) percent of its commons shares outstanding on the date of approval of the stock repurchase program, which limitation will be adjusted for any future stock dividends. This new repurchase program replaces the repurchase program authorized on August 3, 2005. Disclosure of repurchases of Company shares made during the quarter ended March31, 2016 is set forth under Part II, Item 2 of this report, "Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds." Actual capital amounts and ratios for the Company and the Bank as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: 47 In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implemented and addressed the revised standards of Basel III and address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.The Federal Reserve Board's final rules and the FDIC's interim final rules (which became final in April 2014 with no substantive changes) apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more, and top-tier savings and loan holding companies ("banking organizations"). Among other things, the rules establish a common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets) and increase the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (from 4% to 6% of risk-weighted assets). Banking organizations are also required to have a total capital ratio of at least 8% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4%. The rules also limit a banking organization's ability to pay dividends, engage in share repurchases or pay discretionary bonuses if the banking organization does not hold a "capital conservation buffer" consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements.The capital conservation buffer requirements began phasing in on January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and will increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019 at 2.50% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. At March 31, 2016, the capital ratios of the Company exceeded the minimum Basel III capital requirements.It is management's goal to monitor and maintain adequate capital levels to continue to support asset growth and the expansion of the Bank and to continue its status as a well-capitalized institution. 48 Liquidity At March 31, 2016, the amount of liquid assets and the Bank's access to off-balance sheet liquidity remained at a level management deemed adequate to ensure that contractual liabilities, depositors' withdrawal requirements, and other operational and customer credit needs could be satisfied. Liquidity management refers to the Company's ability to support asset growth while satisfying the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of customers.In addition to maintaining liquid assets, factors such as capital position, profitability, asset quality and availability of funding affect a bank's ability to meet its liquidity needs.On the asset side, liquid funds are maintained in the form of cash and cash equivalents, federal funds sold, investment securities held to maturity maturing within one year, securities available for sale and loans held for sale.Additional asset-based liquidity is derived from scheduled loan repayments as well as investment repayments of principal and interest. Investment securities and loans may also be pledged to the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") to collateralize additional borrowings.On the liability side, the primary source of liquidity is the ability to generate core deposits.Long-term and short-term borrowings are used as supplemental funding sources when growth in the core deposit base does not keep pace with that of earnings assets. The Bank has established a borrowing relationship with the FHLB which further supports and enhances liquidity. During 2010, the FHLB replaced its Overnight Line of Credit and One-Month Overnight Repricing Line of Credit facilities available to member banks with a fully secured line of up to 50 percent of a bank's quarter-end total assets.Under the terms of this facility, the Bank's total credit exposure to the FHLB cannot exceed 50 percent, or $474.5 million, of its total assets at March 31, 2016.In addition, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Bank's advances, letters of credit, the dollar amount of the FHLB's minimum collateral requirement for off-balance sheet financial contracts and advance commitments cannot exceed 30 percent of the Bank's total assets, unless the Bank obtains approval from the FHLB's Board of Directors or its Executive Committee.These limits are further restricted by a member's ability to provide eligible collateral to support its obligations to the FHLB as well as the ability to meet the FHLB's stock requirement.At March 31, 2016, the Bank pledged collateral to the FHLB to support additional borrowing capacity of $94.6 million.The Bank also maintains unsecured federal funds lines of $46.0 million with two correspondent banks. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows present the changes in cash from operating, investing and financing activities.At March 31, 2016, the balance of cash and cash equivalents was $14.8 million. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $7.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $456,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2015.A source of funds is net income from operations adjusted for activity related to loans originated for sale and sold, the provision for loan losses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and net amortization of premiums and discounts on securities.Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was greater than net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 due primarily to higher net proceeds from the origination and sales of loans in the 2016 period compared to the 2015 period and a decrease in other assets in the 2016 period compared to an increase in other assets in the 2015 period. Net cash provided by investing activities totaled $17.2 million for the three months ended March 31 2016 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $58.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015.The primary source of cash provided by investing activities for the first three months of 2016 was the net decrease in loans of $23.4 million compared to a net increase in loans of $56.0 million for the first three months of 2015. The securities portfolios are also a source of liquidity, providing cash flows from maturities and periodic repayments of principal.For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, prepayments and maturities of investment securities totaled $14.6 million and $12.4 million, respectively.Purchases of investment securities were $22.4 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to purchases of $13.9 million of investment securities in the first quarter of 2015. Net cash used in financing activities was $21.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $55.3 million of net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015.The primary use of funds for the 2016 period wasthe decrease in borrowed funds of $38.6 million, which was partially offset by the increase in deposits of $17.1 million. The primary source of funds in the 2015 period was the increase in borrowed funds of $62.6 million, which was partially offset by a decrease in deposits of $7.3 million. 49 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The largest component of the Company's total income is net interest income, and the majority of the Company's financial instruments are composed of interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities with various terms and maturities. The primary objective of management is to maximize net interest income while minimizing interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is derived from timing differences and the magnitude of relative changes in the repricing of assets and liabilities, loan prepayments, deposit withdrawals, and differences in lending and funding rates. Management actively seeks to monitor and control the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Under the interest rate risk policy established by the Board of Directors, the Company established quantitative guidelines with respect to interest rate risk and how interest rate shocks are projected to affect net interest income and economic value of equity. Due to the current low level of market interest rates, the current monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board and recent communications from the Federal Reserve Board, management believes that is is more likely that market interest rates may increase than decrease over the intermediate term. Summarized below is the projected effect of a parallel shift of an increase of 200 and 300 basis points, respectively, in market interest rates on net interest income and economic value of equity. Based upon the current interest rate environment, as of March31, 2016 , sensitivity to interest rate risk was as follows: (1) Assumes an instantaneous and parallel shift in interest rates at all maturities. (2) EVE is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. The Company employs many assumptions to calculate the impact of changes in interest rates on assets and liabilities, and actual results may not be similar to projections due to several factors, including the timing and frequency of rate changes, market conditions and the shape of the yield curve. Actual results may also differ due to management's actions, if any, in response to changing rates. In calculating these exposures, the Company utilized an interest rate simulation model which is validated by third-party reviewers on an annual basis.Item 1.Financial Statements. 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 1 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Income (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 2 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. (1) Included in salaries and employee benefits expense on the consolidated statements of income (2) Included in income taxes on the consolidated statements of income 3 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 4 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements ofCash Flows (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 5 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements June30, 2016 (Unaudited) (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include 1 ST Constitution Bancorp (the "Company"), its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., 204 South Newman Street Corp., and 249 New York Avenue, LLC. 1st Constitution Capital Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements, as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary.All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.The accounting and reporting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 , filed with the SEC on March 22, 2016. In the opinion of the Company, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) which are necessary for a fair presentation of the operating results for the interim periods have been included. The results of operations for periods of less than a year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. The Company has evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date of June30, 2016 for items that should potentially be recognized or disclosed in these financial statements.The evaluation was conducted through the date these financial statements were issued. On December 18, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 14, 2016, which was paid on February 1, 2016.As appropriate, common shares and per common share data presented in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes below have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. (2) Net Income Per Common Share Basic net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, as adjusted for the assumed exercise of dilutive common stock warrants and common stock options using the treasury stock method. The following tables illustrate the reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) calculations.Dilutive securities in the tables below exclude common stock options and warrants with exercise prices that exceed the average market price of the Company's common stock during the periods presented.Inclusion of these common stock options and warrants would be anti-dilutive to the diluted earnings per common share calculation. 6 For the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , 20,060 and 32,049 options, respectively, were anti-dilutiveand were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, 20,060 and 44,192 options, respectively, were anti-dilutive and were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share. 7 (3) Investment Securities Amortized cost, carrying value, gross unrealized gains and losses, and the fair value by security type are as follows: 8 Restricted stock is included in other assets at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 and totaled $6.0 million and $3.3 million , respectively, and consisted of $5.9 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at June30, 2016 and $3.2 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at December 31, 2015. 9 Gross unrealized losses on available for sale and held to maturity securities and the fair value of the related securities aggregated by security category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: 10 The following table sets forth certain information regarding the amortized cost, carrying value, fair value, weighted average yields and contractual maturities of the Company's investment portfolio as of June30, 2016 .Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 11 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government sponsored corporations and agencies: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.The contractual terms of these investments do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the par value of the investment.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Residential collateralized mortgage obligations and residential mortgage backed securities: The unrealized losses on investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities were caused by increases in market interest rates. The contractual cash flows of these securities are guaranteed by the issuers, which are primarily government or government sponsored agencies. It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Obligations of state and political subdivisions: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment.None of the issuers have defaulted on interest payments. These investments are not considered to be other than temporarily impaired because the decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Corporate debt securities: The unrealized losses on investments in corporate debt securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.None of the corporate issuers have defaulted on interest payments. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not a decline in credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity. Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities single issuer :The investments in these securities with unrealized losses are comprised of four corporate trust preferred securities issued by two large financial institutions that mature in 2027. The contractual terms of the trust preferred securities do not allow the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the face value of the trust preferred securities, which is greater than the amortized cost of the trust preferred securities.One of the issuers continues to maintain an investment grade credit rating and neither has defaulted on interest payments.The decline in fair value is attributable to the widening of interest rate spreads and the lack of an active trading market for these securities and market concerns about the issuers' credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities pooled: This trust preferred debt security was issued by a two issuer pool (Preferred Term Securities XXV, Ltd. co-issued by Keefe, Bruyette and Woods, Inc. and First Tennessee ("PRETSL XXV")) consisting primarily of trust preferred debt securities issued by financial institution holding companies.During 2009, the Company recognized an other-than-temporary impairment of $865,000 , of which $364,000 was determined to be a credit loss and charged to operations and $501,000 was recognized in the other comprehensive income (loss) component of shareholders' equity. The primary factor used to determine the credit portion of the impairment loss recognized in the income statement for this security was the discounted present value of projected cash flow where that present value of cash flow was less than the amortized cost basis of the security.The present value of cash flow was developed using an EITF 99-20 model that considered performing collateral ratios, the level of subordination to senior tranches of the security, and credit ratings of and projected credit defaults in the underlying collateral. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates the security to determine if any additional other-than-temporary impairment is required.As of June30, 2016 , management concluded that no additional other-than-temporary impairment had occurred. 12 (4) Allowance for Loan Losses and Credit Quality Disclosure The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at June30, 2016 : The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at December31, 2015 : ` 13 As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired in the merger with Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company ("Rumson")with evidence of deteriorated credit quality of $464,000 at June30, 2016 and $489,000 at December31, 2015 were not classified as non-performing loans. The Company's internal credit risk grades are based on the definitions currently utilized by the banking regulatory agencies.The grades assigned and definitions are as follows, and loans graded excellent, above average, good and watch list are treated as "pass" for grading purposes: 1. Excellent - Loans that are based upon cash collateral held at the Bank and adequately margined. Loans that are based upon "blue chip" stocks listed on the major exchanges and adequately margined. 2. Above Average - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show excellent liquidity and long-term debt is on well-spread schedules of repayment easily covered by cash flow.Such companies have been consistently profitable and have diversification in their product lines or sources of revenue.The continuation of profitable operations for the foreseeable future is likely.Management is comprised of a mix of ages, experience, and backgrounds and management succession is in place.Sources of raw materials are abundant, and for service companies, the source of revenue is abundant.Future needs have been planned for.Character and ability of individuals or company principals are excellent.Loans to individuals are supported by high net worths and liquid assets. 3. Good - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show good liquidity and cash flow adequate to meet maturities of long-term debt with a comfortable margin.Such companies have established profitable records over a number of years, and there has been growth in net worth.Operating ratios are in line with those of the industry, and expenses are in proper relationship to the volume of business done and the profits achieved.Management is well-balanced and competent in their responsibilities.Economic environment is favorable; however, competition is strong.The prospects for growth are good.Loans in this category do not meet the collateral requirements of loans in categories 1 and 2 above. Loans to individuals are supported by good net worths but whose supporting assets are illiquid. 3w. Watch - Included in this category are loans evidencing problems identified by Bank management that require closer supervision.Such problem has not developed to the point which requires a Special Mention rating.This category also covers situations where the Bank does not have adequate current information upon which credit quality can be determined.The Bank's account officer has the obligation to correct these deficiencies within 30 days from the time of notification. 4. Special Mention - A "special mention" loan has potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for the loan or in the Bank's credit position at some future date. Special mention loans are not adversely classified and do not expose the Bank to sufficient risk to warrant adverse classification. 5. Substandard - A "substandard" loan is inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or by the collateral pledged, if any. Loans so classified must have a well-defined weakness, or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the Bank will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. 6. Doubtful - A loan classified "doubtful" has all the weaknesses inherent in one classified substandard with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently known facts, conditions and values, highly questionable and improbable. 7. Loss - A loan classified "loss" is considered uncollectible and of such little value that its continuance on the books is not warranted. This classification does not mean that the loan has absolutely no recovery or salvage value, but rather it is not practical or desirable to defer writing off this basically worthless loan even though partial recovery may be affected in the future. 14 The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indicator at June30, 2016 : The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indicator at December31, 2015 : 15 Impaired Loans Disclosures Loans are considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is determined that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan contract, including scheduled interest payments.When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, it is also considered to be impaired.Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when: (1) the full collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain or (2) they are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal payments unless the loans are both well secured and in the process of collection. The following tables summarize the distribution of the allowance for loan losses and loans receivable by loan class and impairment method at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of June30, 2016 Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of December31, 2015 16 The activity in the allowance for loan loss by loan class for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows : (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Lines Residential Real Estate Loans to Individuals Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2015 $1,025 $2,005 $3,049 $866 $288 $109 $- $218 $7,560 Provision charged (credited) to operations (44 ) (392 ) 46 1 (79 ) 4 - 264 (200 ) Loans charged off - - (60 ) - - - - - (60 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 1 - - - 1 - - 2 Balance - March31, 2016 $981 $1,614 $3,035 $867 $209 $114 $- $482 $7,302 Provision charged (credited) to operations (6 ) (284 ) (263 ) 323 85 3 - 42 (100 ) Loans charged off - (101 ) - - - - - - (101 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 1 378 - - 2 - - 381 Balance - June30, 2016 $975 $1,230 $3,150 $1,190 $294 $119 $- $524 $7,482 (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Lines Residential Real Estate Loans to Individuals Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2014 $1,215 $1,761 $2,393 $896 $197 $129 $2 $332 $6,925 Provision charged (credited) to operations (98 ) 62 (4 ) 152 13 (13 ) - 388 500 Loans charged off - (62 ) - - - - - - (62 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - - - - - 1 - - 1 Balance - March31, 2015 $1,117 $1,761 $2,389 $1,048 $210 $117 $2 $720 $7,364 Provision charged (credited) to operations (27 ) (81 ) 49 71 (8 ) 3 (1 ) (6 ) - Loans charged off - (26 ) - - - - - - (26 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 5 7 - - 1 - - 13 Balance - June30, 2015 $1,090 $1,659 $2,445 $1,119 $202 $121 $1 $714 $7,351 When a loan is identified as impaired, the measurement of impairment is based on the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, except when the sole remaining source of repayment for the loan is the liquidation of the collateral.In such cases, the current fair value of the collateral less selling costs is used.If the value of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, the impairment is recognized through an allowance estimate or a charge to the allowance. 17 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) June30, 2016 18 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) December31, 2015 19 20 Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans Purchased Credit-Impaired loans ("PCI") are loans acquired at a discount that are due in part to credit quality. The following table presents additional information regarding acquired credit-impaired loans at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : Changes in accretable discount for purchased credit-impaired loans for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and June30, 2015 were as follows: Consumer Mortgage Loans Secured by Residential Real Estate in Process of Foreclosure The following table summarizes the recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans secured by residential real estate in the process of foreclosure: In the normal course of business, the Bank may consider modifying loan terms for various reasons. These reasons may include as a retention strategy to compete in the current interest rate environment or as a re-amortization or extension of a loan term to better match the loan's repayment stream with the borrower's cash flow. A modified loan would be considered a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR") if the Bank grants a concession to a borrower and has determined that the borrower is troubled (i.e., experiencing financial difficulties). If the Bank restructures a loan to a troubled borrower, the loan terms (i.e., interest rate, payment, amortization period and maturity date) may be modified in various ways to enable the borrower to cover the modified debt service payments based on current financial statements and cash flow adequacy. If a borrower's hardship is thought to be temporary, then modified terms may only be offered for that time period. Where possible, the Bank would attempt to obtain additional collateral and/or secondary repayment sources at the time of the restructuring in order to put the Bank in the best possible position if the borrower is not able to meet the modified terms. The Bank will not offer modified terms if it believes that modifying the loan terms will only delay an inevitable permanent default. In evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, applicable guidance requires that a creditor must separately conclude that the restructuring constitutes a concession and the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties. There were no loans modified that were TDRs during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 . For the year ended December31, 2015 , there was 1 loan with a recorded investment of $288,000 that was modified as a TDR.There were no troubled debt restructurings that subsequently defaulted within twelve months of restructuring during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and the year ended December31, 2015 . 21 (5) Share-Based Compensation The Company's share-based incentive plans ("Stock Plans") authorize the issuance of an aggregate of 459,322 shares of the Company's common stock (as adjusted for stock dividends) pursuant to awards that may be granted in the form of stock options to purchase common stock ("Options") and awards of shares of common stock ("Stock Awards").The purpose of the Stock Plans is to attract and retain personnel for positions of substantial responsibility and to provide additional incentive to certain officers, directors, employees and other persons to promote the success of the Company.Under the Stock Plans, options may have a term of not more than ten years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination in certain circumstances.Options are granted with an exercise price at the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant or otherwise as provided for in the Stock Plans.The grant date fair value is calculated using the Black Scholes option valuation model. As of June30, 2016 , there were 230,865 shares of common stock available for future grants under the Stock Plans, of which 191,155 shares were available for future grants under the 2013 Equity Incentive Plan and 39,710 shares were available for future grant under the 2015 Directors Stock Plan. Share-based compensation expense related to options was $22,000 and $23,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Transactions under the Stock Plans during the six months ended June 30, 2016 are summarized as follows: The fair value of each option and the significant weighted average assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the options granted for the six months ended June 30, 2016 are as follows: (1)To date, the Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock. As of June30, 2016 , there was approximately $89,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option-based compensation arrangements granted under the Stock Plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over the next four years . 22 The following table summarizes the activity in non-vested restricted shares for the six months ended June 30, 2016 : The value of restricted shares is based upon the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. The shares generally vest over a 4 year service period for employees and a 2 year service period for non-employee directors with compensation expense recognized on a straight-line basis. Share-based compensation expense related to stock grants was $340,000 and $303,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. As of June30, 2016 , there was approximately $1.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock grants.Compensation costs related to non-vested stock grants are recognized over four years for employees and two years for non-employee directors from the date of grant. (6) Benefit Plans The Bank has a 401(k) plan which covers substantially all employees with six months or more of service.The Bank's 401(k) plan permits all eligible employees to make contributions to the plan up to the IRS salary deferral limit.The Bank's contributions to the 401(k) plan are expensed as incurred. The Company also provides retirement benefits to certain employees under supplemental executive retirement plans.The plans are unfunded and the Company accrues actuarially determined benefit costs over the estimated service period of the employees in the plans.The Company recognizes the over-funded or under-funded status of a defined benefit post-retirement plan as an asset or liability on itsbalance sheetand recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur, through comprehensive income. In connection with the benefit plans, the Bank has life insurance policies on the lives of its executives, directors and divisional officers. The Bank is the owner and beneficiary of the policies. The cash surrender values of the policies totaled approximately $21.9 million and $21.6 million at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The components of net periodic expense for the Company's supplemental executive retirement plans for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 23 (7) Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) is the total of (1) net income (loss), and (2) all other changes in equity from non-shareholder sources, which are referred to as other comprehensive income (loss).The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and the related tax effects, are as follows: Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows and are presented net of tax: 24 25 (8) Recent Accounting Pronouncements ASU Update 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13 "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" which requires credit losses on most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments to be measured using an expected credit loss model (referred to as the current expected credit loss (CECL) model). Under this model, entities will estimate credit losses over the entire contractual term of the instrument (considering estimated prepayments, but not expected extensions or modifications unless reasonable expectation of a troubled debt restructuring exists) from the date of initial recognition of that instrument. The ASU also replaces the current accounting model for purchased credit impaired loans and debt securities. The allowance for credit losses for purchased financial assets with a more-than-insignificant amount of credit deterioration since origination ("PCD assets") should be determined in a similar manner to other financial assets measured on an amortized cost basis. Upon initial recognition, the allowance for credit losses is added to the purchase price ("gross up approach") to determine the initial amortized cost basis. The subsequent accounting for PCD financial assets will use the CECL model described above. The ASU made certain targeted amendments to the existing impairment model for available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities. For an AFS debt security for which there is neither the intent nor a more-likely-than-not requirement to sell, an entity will record credit losses as an allowance rather than a write-down of the amortized cost basis. For public business entities that are SEC filers, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted for all entities as of the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-09 Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09 "Compensation-Stock Compensation: Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting" to simplify the accounting for stock compensation. The ASU focuses on income tax accounting, award classification, estimating forfeitures and cash flow presentation. The ASU also provides certain accounting policy alternatives to nonpublic entities. The ASU simplifies several aspects of the stock compensation guidance in Topic 718 and other related guidance. The following six amendments apply to all entities: (1) accounting for income taxes upon vesting or exercise of share-based payments and related EPS effects, (2) classification of excess tax benefits on the statement of cash flows, (3) accounting for forfeitures, (4) liability classification exception for statutory tax withholding requirements, (5) cash flow presentation of employee taxes paid when an employer withholds shares for tax-withholding purposes and (6) elimination of the indefinite deferral in Topic 718. For public business entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. For all other entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted for any entity in any interim or annual period for which the financial statements have not been issued or made available to be issued. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-02: Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 "Leases ." From the lessee's perspective, the new standard establishes a right- of-use ("ROU") model that requires a lessee to record a ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement for a lessee. From the lessor's perspective, the new standard requires a lessor to classify leases as either sales-type, finance or operating. A lease will be treated as a sale if it transfers all of the risks and rewards, as well as control of the underlying asset, to the lessee. If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as a financing. If the lessor doesn't convey risks and rewards or control, an operating lease results. 26 The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessors for sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-01 Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 "Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The guidance in the ASU, among other things, requires equity investments, with certain exceptions, to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment; eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet; requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes; requires an entity to present separately in other comprehensive income the portion of the change in fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments; requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the financial statements; and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale securities. The guidance in this ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2015-16 Business Combination (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments. In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-16 "Business Combination (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments," to require adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period to be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This includes any effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization or other income effects as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. The amendments in this update would require an entity to disclose (either on the face of the income statement or in the notes) the nature and amount of measurement-period adjustments recognized in the current period, including separately the amounts in current-period income statement line items that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. The amendments are effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015 and for all other entities for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2016 and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Adoption of this guidance in 2016 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU 2014-9 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-9, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." The objective of this amendment is to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP.This update affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of non-financial assets unless those contracts are in the scope of other standards.This ASU, which does not apply to financial instruments, is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that year. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements related to this guidance. 27 ASU 2014-12 Accounting for Share-Based-Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved After the Requisite Service Period (a consensus of the FAS Emerging Issues Task Force). In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-12, "Accounting for Share-Based-Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved After the Requisite Service Period," which requires that a performance target included in a share-based payment award that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. This update is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The amendments can be applied prospectively to all awards granted or modified after the effective date or retrospectively to all awards with performance targets that are outstanding as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented and to all new or modified awards thereafter. Adoption of this guidance in 2016 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. (9) Fair Value Disclosures U.S. GAAP has established a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation methods used to measure fair value.The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical unrestricted assets or liabilities. Level 2: Quoted prices in markets that are not active, or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (i.e., supported with little or no market activity). An asset's or liability's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. A description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy, is set forth below.These valuation methodologies were applied to all of the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value. In general, fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available.If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters.Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and counterparty creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters.Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time.The Company's valuation methodologies may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future values.While management believes the Company's valuation methodologies are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Securities Available for Sale .Securities classified as available for sale are reported at fair value utilizing quoted market prices on nationally recognized exchanges (Level 1) or by using Level 2 inputs.For Level 2 securities, the Company obtains fair value measurements from an independent pricing service.The fair value measurements consider observable data that may include dealer quotes, market spreads, cash flows, the U.S. Treasury yield curve, live trading levels, trade execution data, market consensus prepayments speeds, credit information and the security's terms and conditions, among other things. Impaired loans. Loans included in the following table are those which the Company has measured and recognized impairment, generally based on the fair value of the loan's collateral.Fair value is generally determined based upon independent third party appraisals of the collateral or discounted cash flows based on the expected proceeds.These assets are included as Level 3 fair values, based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements.The fair value consists of the loan balances less specific valuation allowances. Other Real Estate Owned. Foreclosed properties are adjusted to fair value less estimated selling costs at the time of foreclosure in preparation for transfer from portfolio loans to other real estate owned ("OREO"), establishing a new accounting basis. The Company subsequently adjusts the fair value of the OREO utilizing Level 3 inputs on a non-recurring basis to reflect partial write-downs based on the observable market price, current appraised value of the asset or other estimates of fair value. The 28 fair value of other real estate owned is determined using appraisals, which may be discounted based on management's review and changes in market conditions. The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis segregated by the level of the valuation inputs within the fair value hierarchy utilized to measure fair value: Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment).Assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at June30, 2016 consisted of 5 loans having an aggregate recorded investment of $3.8 million and specific loan loss allowances of $130,000 .Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at December 31, 2015 consisted of 9 loans having an aggregate balance of $4.3 million with a specific loan loss allowance of $326,000 . 29 The following table presents additional qualitative information about assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, and for which the Company has utilized Level 3 inputs to determine fair value: (1) Fair value is generally determined through independent appraisals of the underlying collateral, which generally include various Level 3 inputs which are not identifiable. (2) Includes qualitative adjustments by management and estimated liquidation expenses. The following is a summary of fair value versus carrying value of all of the Company's financial instruments.For the Company and the Bank, as with most financial institutions, the bulk of their assets and liabilities are considered financial instruments.Many of the financial instruments lack an available trading market as characterized by a willing buyer and willing seller engaging in an exchange transaction.Therefore, significant estimations and present value calculations were used for the purpose of this note.Changes in assumptions could significantly affect these estimates. Estimated fair values have been determined by using the best available data and an estimation methodology suitable for each category of financial instruments as follows: Cash and Cash Equivalents, Accrued Interest Receivable and Accrued Interest Payable (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accrued interest receivable and accrued interest payable approximate fair value. Securities Held to Maturity (Carried at Amortized Cost). The fair values of securities held to maturity are determined in the same manner as for securities available for sale. Loans Held For Sale (Carried at Lower of Aggregated Cost or Fair Value). The fair values of loans held for sale are determined, when possible, using quoted secondary market prices. If no such quoted market prices exist, fair values are determined using quoted prices for similar loans, adjusted for the specific attributes of the loans. Gross Loans Receivable (Carried at Cost). The fair values of loans, excluding impaired loans subject to specific loss reserves, are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses that use market rates as of the balance sheet date that reflect the credit and interest rate-risk inherent in the loans.Projected future cash flows are calculated based upon contractual maturity or call dates, projected repayments and prepayments of principal.Generally, for variable rate loans that re-price frequently and with no significant change in credit risk, fair values are based on carrying values. Deposit Liabilities (Carried at Cost). The fair values disclosed for demand deposits (e.g., interest and non-interest demand and savings accounts) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts).Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered in the market on certificates of deposit to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits. Borrowings and Subordinated Debt (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values. The fair values of long-term FHLB advances are estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, based on quoted or estimated interest rates for new borrowings with similar credit risk characteristics, terms and remaining maturity. For subordinated debt, which reprices quarterly, the fair value is based on inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for similar debt obligations. 30 The estimated fair values and carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities as of June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows: Loan commitments and standby letters of credit as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were based on fees charged for similar agreements; accordingly, the estimated fair value of loan commitments and standby letters of credit was nominal. 31 Item 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis of the operating results for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and financial condition at June30, 2016 is intended to help readers analyze the accompanying financial statements, notes and other supplemental information contained in this document. Results of operations for the three and six month period ended June30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of results to be attained for any other period. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, notes and tables included elsewhere in this report and Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Form 10-K (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation) for the year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 22, 2016. General Throughout the following sections, the "Company" refers to 1 ST Constitution Bancorp and, as the context requires, its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., LLC, 204 South Newman Street Corp. and 249 New York Avenue, LLC.1 ST Constitution Capital Trust II ("Trust II"), a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary. Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, was created in May 2006 to issue trust preferred securities to assist the Company in raising additional capital. The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Company was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in February 1999 for the purpose of acquiring all of the issued and outstanding stock of the Bank, a full service commercial bank which began operations in August 1989, thereby enabling the Bank to operate within a bank holding company structure. The Company became an active bank holding company on July 1, 1999. Other than its ownership interest in the Bank, the Company currently conducts no other significant business activities. The Bank operates nineteen branches and manages an investment portfolio through its subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc.FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of the Bank, is used by the Bank to manage and dispose of repossessed real estate. When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three and six month periods ended June30, 2016 (this "Form 10-Q"), the words "the Company," "we," "our," and "us" refer to 1st Constitution Bancorp and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless we indicate otherwise. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements.When used in this and in future filings by the Company with the SEC, in the Company's press releases and in oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer of the Company, the words or phrases "will," "will likely result," "could," "anticipates," "believes," "continues," "expects," "plans," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimated," "project" or "outlook" or similar expressions (including confirmations by an authorized executive officer of the Company of any such expressions made by a third party with respect to the Company) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Companycautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, each of which speaks only as of the date made.Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from those results expressed or implied, include, but are not limited to, those listed under "Business", "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 22, 2016, such as the overall economy and the interest rate environment; the ability of customers to repay their obligations; the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; competition; significant changes in accounting, tax or regulatory practices and requirements; certain interest rate risks; risks associated with investments in mortgage-backed securities;risks associated with speculative construction lending; and risks associated with safeguarding information technology systems. Although management has taken certain steps to mitigate any negative effect of the aforementioned items, significant unfavorable changes could severely impact the assumptions used and could have an adverse effect on profitability. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements, except as required by law. 32 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three and Six Months Ended June30, 2016 Compared to Three and Six Months Ended June30, 2015 Summary The Company reported net income of $2.3 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 and the three months ended June30, 2015 . Net income per diluted share was $0.28 for the second quarter of 2016 compared to net income per diluted share of $0.29 for the second quarter of 2015. Net income per diluted share declined slightly due to the higher average number of diluted shares outstanding in 2016. The Company reported net income of $4.5 million or $0.56 per diluted share for the six month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to net income of $4.6 million or $0.57 per diluted share for the six month period ended June 30, 2015. Return on average assets and return on average equity were 0.95% and 9.36%, respectively, for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to return on average assets and return on average equity of 0.95% and 10.42%, respectively, for the three months ended June30, 2015 . Book value and tangible book value per share were $12.78 and $11.13, respectively at June30, 2016 . Return on average assets and return on average equity were 0.94% and 9.28%, respectively, for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to return on average assets and return on average equity of 0.95% and 10.42%, respectively, for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Second Quarter Highlights Net income was $2.3 million in the second quarter of 2016 and the second quarter of 2015. Net interest income was $8.6 million in the second quarter of 2016, a decrease of $797,000 from $9.4 million in the second quarter of 2015, and the net interest margin was 3.86% and 4.20% on a tax equivalent basis for the respective periods. Loans held in portfolio increased $102.1 million during the quarter to $759.8 million at June 30, 2016 and the loan to asset ratio was 71.3% at June 30, 2016. During the second quarter of 2016, $1.3 million of non-performing assets were resolved and non-performing assets declined to $5.3 million and 0.50% of assets at June 30, 2016 from $7.0 million and 0.72% of assets, respectively, at December 31, 2015. The Bank recorded a credit (negative) provision for loan losses of $100,000 in the second quarter of 2016 due to lower historical loan loss reserve factors that reflected the improvement in loan credit quality, the resolution and reduction of non-performing loans, the low level of net charge-offs over the prior five quarters and net recoveries of $280,000 in the second quarter of loans previously charged-off. Earnings Analysis The Bank's results of operations depend primarily on net interest income, which is primarily affected by the market interest rate environment, the shape of the U.S. Treasury yield curve, and the difference between the yield on interest-earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities.Other factors that may affect the Bank's operating results are general and local economic and competitive conditions, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. Net Interest Income Net interest income, the Company's largest and most significant component of operating income, is the difference between interest and fees earned on loans and other earning assets and interest paid on deposits and borrowed funds. This component represented 84.9% of the Company's net revenues (defined as net interest income plus non-interest income) for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 82.6% of net revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Net interest income also depends upon the relative amount of average interest-earning assets, average interest-bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned or paid on them, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 , net interest income represented 84.5% of the Company's net revenues compared to 81.3% of net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2015 . The following tables set forth the Company's consolidated average balances of assets and liabilities and shareholders' equity as well as interest income and expense on related items, and the Company's average yield or rate for the three and six month periods 33 ended June 30 2016 and 2015. The average rates are derived by dividing interest income and expense by the average balance of assets and liabilities, respectively. (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. 34 (4) Tax-equivalent basis. The tax equivalent adjustment was $250 and $255 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and June 30 2015, respectively. (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. 35 (4) Tax-equivalent basis. The tax equivalent adjustment was $500 and $559 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and June 30 2015, respectively. Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to three months ended June 30, 2015 Net interest income was $8.6 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 , which represented a decrease of $797,000 compared to net interest income of $9.4 million for the three months ended June30, 2015 . The decrease in net interest income in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 was due primarily to a decrease of $720,000 in interest income on loans and an increase of $104,000 in interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest income on average earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, was $10.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $10.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. The decrease of $698,000 in interest income was due primarily to a decrease in average loan balances to $674.2 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2016 from $705.7 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 and the lower yield on loans of 5.08% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the yield on loans of 5.27% for the three months ended June 30, 2015. The yield on loans declined due to the continued low interest rate environment as new loans were originated at yields lower than the average yield on loans in the prior period. Interest expense on average interest-bearing liabilities was $1.3 million, or 0.71%, for the second quarter of 2016 compared to $1.2 million, or 0.64%, for the second quarter of 2015. The increase of $104,000 in interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities for the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 primarily reflects higher short-term market interest rates in 2016 compared to 2015. The Federal Reserve Board increased the targeted federal funds rate in December 2015 by 25 basis points, which impacted short-term market rates in 2016. The net interest margin, on a tax-equivalent basis, declined to 3.86% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 4.20% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to the lower yield on interest-earning assets. Average interest-earning assets decreased by $1.4 million, or 0.15%, to $922.5 million for the three month period ended June30, 2016 from $923.9 million for the three month period ended June30, 2015 due to the decrease in average loan balances, which was partially offset by the increase in average investment securities.The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, decreased 30 basis points to 4.41% for the three month period ended June30, 2016 compared to 4.71% for the three month period ended June30, 2015 due primarily to the decrease in the average balance of loans, primarily mortgage warehouse lines utilized, for the quarter ended June30, 2016 compared to the quarter ended June30, 2015 . Average interest-bearing liabilities decreased by $16.2 million, or 2.2%, to $708.7 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 from $724.9 million for the three months ended June30, 2015 due primarily to decreases in certificates of deposit and money market and NOW accounts. Overall, the cost of total interest-bearing liabilities increased 7 basis points to 0.71% for the three months ended June30, 2016 from 0.64% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to six months ended June 30, 2015 For the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company's net interest income decreased by $832,000, or 4.6%, to $17.1 million compared to $18.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. This decrease was due primarily to the decrease in average loan balances, a decrease in the average yield on interest-earning assets and an increase in interest expense on average interest-bearing liabilities. Interest expense on average interest-bearing liabilities was $2.4 million, or 0.70%, for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $2.3 million, or 0.64%, for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase of $145,000 in interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities for the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 primarily reflects higher short-term market interest rates in 2016 compared to 2015. The Federal Reserve Board increased the targeted federal funds rate in December 2015 by 25 basis points, which impacted short-term market rates in 2016. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, the net interest margin (on a tax-equivalent basis) was 3.89% compared to 4.09% for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Average interest-earning assets decreased by $2.8 million, or 0.3%, to $909.2 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2016 from $912.1 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2015. The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, decreased 17 basis points to 4.43% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 4.60% for the six months ended June 30, 2015, primarily due to the $15.3 million decrease in the average balance of the loan portfolio for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 and the decline in the yield on average loans to 5.16% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the yield on average loans of 5.27% for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Average interest-bearing liabilities decreased by $17.2 million, or 2.4%, to $699.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $716.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to decreases in money market and NOW accounts 36 and certificates of deposit. The decrease in deposits was due primarily to a decline in NOW accounts and savings deposits from municipalities of $33.1 million, which was partially offset by an increase of $16.0 million in consumer and business deposits. The total cost of interest-bearing liabilities increased by 6 basis points to 0.70% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from 0.64% for the six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily due to higher short-term market interest rates in 2016. Provision for Loan Losses Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to three months ended June 30, 2015 Management considers a complete review of the following specific factors in determining the provisions for loan losses: historical losses by loan category, the level of non-accrual loans and problem loans as identified through internal review and classification, collateral values and the growth and size of the loan portfolio. In addition to these factors, management takes into consideration current economic conditions and local real estate market conditions. In general, over the last two years, the Bank experienced an improvement in loan credit quality and achieved a steady resolution of non-performing loans and assets related to the severe recession, which was reflected in the current lower level of non-performing loans at June30, 2016 . During the last five quarters, net charge-offs declined significantly, which resulted in a reduction of the historical loss factors for certain segments of the loan portfolio that were applied by management to estimate the allowance for loan losses at June30, 2016 . In the second quarter of 2016, net recoveries of $280,000 were recorded. The lower historical loss factors due to the improvement in loan credit quality resulted in a lower estimated allowance for loan losses of $7.5 million at June30, 2016 . Accordingly, a credit (negative) provision for loan losses of $100,000 was recorded for the second quarter of 2016 compared to no provision being recorded in the second quarter of 2015. At June30, 2016 , non-performing loans decreased by $861,000, or 14.3%, to $5.2 million from $6.0 million at December 31, 2015 and the ratio of non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.68% at June30, 2016 compared to 0.88% at December31, 2015. Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to six months ended June 30, 2015 A credit (negative) provision for loan losses of $300,000 was recorded for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to a provision for loan losses in the amount of $500,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The credit provision for loan losses for the first six months of 2016 reflected gross recoveries of loans previously charged-off of $383,000, gross charge-offs of $161,000 and net recoveries of $222,000 compared to net charge-offs of $74,000 for the first six months of 2015. Non-performing loans declined to $5.2 million at June 30, 2016 compared to $6.0 million at December 31, 2015. Non-Interest Income Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to three months ended June 30, 2015 Total non-interest income was $1.5 million for the second quarter of 2016, a decrease of $452,000, or 22.7%, compared to $2.0 million for the second quarter of 2015. The Bank originates and sells commercial loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration ("SBA") and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. Lower gains of $747,000 from the sales of residential mortgages and SBA loans for the second quarter of 2016 compared to gains of $1.2 million in the second quarter of 2015 were the primary reason for the decrease in non-interest income. In the second quarter of 2016, $14.5 million of residential mortgages were sold and $308,000 of gains were recorded compared to $43.3 million of loans sold and $685,000 of gains recorded in the second quarter of 2015. Residential mortgage lending activity was lower in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 due principally to turnover of employees in the Bank's residential mortgage unit. On July 25, 2016, the Bank hired approximately 20 employees, including residential mortgage originators and operations personnel, who will now make up the majority of the Bank's residential mortgage unit since this unit recently experienced significant employee turnover. The addition of this experienced and productive residential mortgage lending team is expected to enhance the Bank's residential mortgage lending capabilities and broaden its lending products to include Federal Housing Administration insured residential mortgages. SBA guaranteed commercial lending activity and loan sales vary from period to period. In the second quarter of 2016, $4.6 million of SBA loans were sold and gains of $439,000 were recorded compared to $5.2 million of loans sold and gains of $518,000 recorded in the second quarter of 2015. 37 Service charge revenues decreased to $176,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 from $190,000 for the three months ended June30, 2015 due to a lower volume of service charges and overdraft fees collected on deposit accounts during the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Non-interest income also includes income from bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI"), which amounted to $157,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to $142,000 for the three months ended June30, 2015 . The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box rental fees, wire transfer service fees and automated teller machine fees for non-Bank customers. The other income component of non-interest income increased to $456,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to $453,000 for the three months ended June30, 2015 . Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to six months ended June 30, 2015 Total non-interest income for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $3.1 million, a decrease of $985,000, or 23.9%, compared to total non-interest income of $4.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. This decrease was due primarily to a decrease of $845,000 in gains on the sale of loans. Service charge revenues decreased to $373,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $429,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015. This decrease was due primarily to lower overdraft fees collected on deposit accounts. Gains on sales of loans originated for sale decreased by $845,000 to $1.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $2.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The Bank sells both loans guaranteed by the SBA and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, SBA loan sales were $9.8 million and generated gains on sales of loans of approximately $921,000 compared to SBA loan sales of $11.9 million that generated gains on sales of $1.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation sold $38.5 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains from the sales of loans of $729,000. For the six months ended June 30, 2015, the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation sold $77.7 million residential mortgage loans, which generated gains on sale of loans of $1.3 million. Non-interest income also includes income from BOLI, which amounted to $301,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $276,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box fees, wire transfer fees and automated teller machine fees for non-Bank customers. The other income component of non-interest income decreased to $808,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $917,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 due to lower transaction activity. Non-Interest Expenses Non-interest expenses were $6.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 , a decrease of $1.1 million, or 14.4%, compared to $8.0 million for the second quarter of 2015. Non-interest expenses decreased in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 due primarily to a $418,000, or 27.1%, decrease in other operating expenses and a decrease in other real estate owned expenses of $381,000. Non-interest expenses were $13.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, a decrease of $972,000, or 6.6%, compared to $14.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Non-interest expenses decreased in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 due primarily to a $448,000, or 87.3%, decrease in other real estate owned expenses and a $217,000 decrease in occupancy expense. The following table presents the major components of non-interest expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015: 38 ` Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to three months ended June 30, 2015 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, decreased by $187,000, or 4.2%, to $4.3 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to $4.5 million for the three months ended June30, 2015 . The decrease in salaries and employee benefits was a result of a decrease in full-time equivalent employees, primarily in the residential lending group, and lower commissions in the amount of $243,000 paid to residential loan officers as a result of the lower volume of residential mortgage loans originated. Full-time equivalent employees at June30, 2016 decreased to 175 as compared to 181 full-time equivalent employees at June30, 2015 . Occupancy expense decreased by $96,000, or 9.2%, to $952,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended June30, 2015 .The decrease for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June30, 2015 was due to lower depreciation and facilities maintenance expenses. The cost of data processing services increased slightly to $314,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 from $306,000 for the three months ended June30, 2015 . FDIC insurance expense decreased $75,000 to $105,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to $180,000 for the three months ended June30, 2015 primarily due to a lower assessment rate that reflects the improvement in asset quality and the improved financial performance of the Bank in the last six quarters. Other real estate owned expenses decreased by $381,000 to $35,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to $416,000 for the three months ended June30, 2015 due to the $382,000 write-down of one OREO property in the second quarter of 2015 and the lower level of OREO in 2016 compared to 2015. At June30, 2016 , the Company held one commercial property with a value of $166,000 as other real estate owned compared to three properties with an aggregate value of $5.3 million at June30, 2015 . Regulatory, professional and other fees decreased by $17,000, or 6.9%, to $228,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to $245,000 for the three months ended June30, 2015 due primarily to a decrease in consulting fees. Other expenses decreased by $414,000 to $724,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 compared to $1.1 million for the three months ended June30, 2015 due primarily to decreases in legal expense incurred for the collection and recovery of non-performing assets and telephone and various other operating expenses. Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to six months ended June 30, 2015 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, decreased by $58,000, or 0.7%, to $8.6 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to $8.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2015 . The decrease in salaries and employee benefits was the result of a decrease in the number of employees and lower commissions paid to residential loan officers as a result of the lower volume of residential mortgage loans originated in the first six months of 2016. 39 Occupancy expense decreased by $217,000, or 10.1%, to $1.9 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to $2.2 million for the six months ended June30, 2015 .The decrease in occupancy expense resulted primarily from decreases in building maintenance expense and depreciation expense. The cost of data processing services increased slightly to $627,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 from $625,000 for the six months ended June30, 2015 . FDIC insurance expense decreased to $223,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to $370,000 for the six months ended June30, 2015 primarily as a result of a lower assessment rate, which reflected the lower level of net charge-offs, the lower level of non-performing assets and the improved financial performance of the Bank in the last six quarters. Other real estate owned expenses decreased by $448,000 to $65,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to $513,000 for the six months ended June30, 2015 primarily due to no write-downs of the carrying value of OREO assets compared to a $382,000 write-down in the first six months of 2015 and the significant reduction in OREO assets. At June 30, 2016, there was one commercial property with a value of $166,000 compared to three properties with an aggregate value of $5.3 million at June 30, 2015. Regulatory, professional and other fees increased by $62,000, or 17.8%, to $410,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to $348,000 for the six months ended June30, 2015 due primarily to higher examination fees. Other expenses decreased $106,000 to $1.6 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 compared to $1.7 million for the six months ended June30, 2015 as a result of decreases in legal fees and telephone expense.All other expenses are comprised of a variety of operating expenses, as well as expenses associated with lending activities. 40 Income Taxes Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to three months ended June 30, 2015 Pre-tax income was $3.4 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 and the three months ended June30, 2015 . The Company recorded income tax expense of $1.1 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 and the three months ended June30, 2015 . The effective income tax rate was 32.5% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and the three months ended June 30, 2015. Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to six months ended June 30, 2015 Pre-tax income decreased $45,000 to $6.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to pre-tax income of $6.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The Company recorded income tax expense of $2.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, which resulted in an effective tax rate of 32.3%, compared to income tax expense of $2.2 million and an effective tax rate of 32.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The slight decrease in income tax expense for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the lower amount of pre-tax income in the period compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. Financial Condition June30, 2016 Compared with December31, 2015 Total consolidated assets at June30, 2016 were $1.07 billion, representing an increase of $100.7 million, or 10.4%, from total consolidated assets of $968.0 million at December 31, 2015.The increase in assets was primarily attributable to an increase of $79.5 million in net loans and a $19.3 million increase in investment securities which were funded primarily by a $91.0 million increase in borrowed funds and an increase of $4.7 million in deposits. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at June30, 2016 totaled $13.7 million compared to $11.4 million at December 31, 2015, an increase of $2.3 million, or 20.1%. To the extent that the Bank does not utilize funds for loan originations or securities purchases, the cash inflows are invested in overnight deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Loans Held for Sale Loans held for sale at June30, 2016 were $3.2 million compared to $6.0 million at December 31, 2015. As indicated in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, residential mortgage loans originated for sale were $35.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $78.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015 . As a result of turnover of employees in the Bank's residential mortgage unit in the first six months of 2016, the Bank originated and sold a lower level of residential mortgage loans during the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015.The amount of loans held for sale varies from period to period due to changes in the amount and timing of sales of residential mortgages. 41 Investment Securities Investment securities represented approximately 21.9% of total assets at June 30, 2016 and approximately 22.2% of total assets at December 31, 2015. Total investment securities increased $19.3 million, or 9.0%, to $234.0 million at June 30, 2016 from $214.7 million at December 31, 2015. Purchases of investment securities totaled $40.1 million during the six months ended June 30, 2016 , and proceeds from calls, maturities and repayments totaled $22.2 million during the period. Securities available for sale are investments that may be sold in response to changing market and interest rate conditions or for other business purposes.Activity in this portfolio is undertaken primarily to manage liquidity and interest rate risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create economically attractive returns.At June 30, 2016, securities available for sale totaled $111.3 million, an increase of $19.9 million, or 21.8%, compared to securities available for sale totaling $91.4 million at December 31, 2015. At June 30, 2016, the securities available for sale portfolio had net unrealized gains of $1.5 million compared to net unrealized gains of $203,000 at December 31, 2015.These unrealized gains were reflected, net of tax, in shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Securities held to maturity, which are carried at amortized historical cost, are investments for which there is the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity.At June 30, 2016, securities held to maturity were $122.6 million, a decrease of $626,000 from $123.3 million at December 31, 2015.The fair value of the held to maturity portfolio at June 30, 2016 was $127.9 million. Loans The loan portfolio, which represents the Bank's largest asset, is a significant source of both interest and fee income. Elements of the loan portfolio are subject to differing levels of credit and interest rate risk. The Bank's primary lending focus continues to be financing mortgage warehouse lines, construction loans, commercial business loans, owner-occupied commercial mortgage loans and commercial real estate loans on income producing assets. The following table represents the components of the loan portfolio at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : Total loans increased by $79.5 million, or 11.6%, to $761.6 million at June 30, 2016 compared to $682.1 million at December 31, 2015. Mortgage warehouse lines' outstanding balances increased $47.8 million to $264.3 million compared to $216.6 million at December 31, 2015, reflecting higher levels of residential mortgage originations by the Bank's mortgage banking customers that were due to the seasonality of home purchase activity in our markets. The Bank's mortgage warehouse funding group provides revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to finance the origination of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association.On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market.Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment. In the second quarter of 2016, the Bank funded $998.0 million of residential mortgages through customers' warehouse lines of 42 credit compared to $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2015. The decline in the volume of loans funded was primarily due to a $144.0 million decrease in the amount of refinanced loans, which was partially offset by an increase of $66.0 million of loans for the purchase of homes. Commercial business loans increased $5.8 million, or 5.9%, during the first six months of 2016. Commercial business loans consist primarily of loans to small and middle market businesses and are typically working capital loans used to finance inventory, receivables or equipment needs. These loans are generally secured by business assets of the commercial borrower. Commercial real estate loans increased $15.9 million, or 7.7%, during the first six months of 2016. Commercial real estate loans consistprimarily of loans to businesses collateralized by real estate employed in the business and loans to finance income producing properties. Construction loans decreased $524,000 to $93.2 million during the first six months of 2016. Construction financing is provided to businesses to expand their facilities and operations and to real estate developers for the acquisition, development and construction of residential properties and income producing properties. First mortgage construction loans are made to developers and builders for single family homes or multi-family buildings that are presold, or are to be sold or leased on a speculative basis. The Bank lends to developers and builders with established relationships, successful operating histories and sound financial resources. The Bank also finances the construction of individual, owner-occupied single family homes. These loans are made to qualified individual borrowers and are generally supported by a take-out commitment from a permanent lender. The ability of the Company to enter into larger loan relationships and management's philosophy of relationship banking are key factors in the Company's strategy for loan growth.The ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and recovery of the carrying amount of real estate are subject to changes in the economic environment and real estate market in the Company's market region. 43 Non-Performing Assets Non-performing assets consist of non-performing loans and other real estate owned. Non-performing loans are composed of (1) loans on a non-accrual basis and (2) loans which are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest and principal payments but which have not been classified as non-accrual. Included in non-accrual loans are loans whose terms have been restructured to provide a reduction or deferral of interest and/or principal because of deterioration in the financial position of the borrower and which have not performed in accordance with the restructured terms. The Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans is that, generally, loans are placed on a non-accrual status when they are 90 days past due, unless these loans are well secured and in process of collection or, regardless of the past due status of the loan, when management determines that the complete recovery of principal or interest is in doubt.Consumer loans are generally charged off after they become 120 days past due.Subsequent payments on loans in non-accrual status are credited to income only if collection of principal is not in doubt. Non-accrual loans decreased $861,000 to $5.2 million at June 30, 2016 from $6.0 million at December 31, 2015.The major segments of non-accrual loans consist of commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans, which are in the process of collection.The table below sets forth non-performing assets and risk elements in the Bank's portfolio for the periods indicated. Non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.68% at June 30, 2016 from 0.88% at December 31, 2015 principally due to the improvement in loan credit quality and a decrease in non-performing loans.Loan quality is considered to be sound. This was accomplished through quality loan underwriting, a proactive approach to loan monitoring and aggressive workout strategies. Non-performing assets decreased by $1.7 million to $5.3 million at June 30, 2016 from $7.0 million at December 31, 2015.Other real estate owned totaled $166,000 at June 30, 2016 compared to $966,000 at December 31, 2015.OREO at June 30, 2016 was comprised of one commercial real estate property with a value of $166,000. At June 30, 2016, the Bank had nine loans totaling $4.1 million which were troubled debt restructurings.Four of these loans totaling $3.1 million are included in the above table as non-accrual loans; the remaining five loans totaling $1.0 million are considered performing. At December 31, 2015, the Bank had ten loans totaling $4.7 million that were troubled debt restructurings. Three of these loans totaling $3.2 million are included in the above table as non-accrual loans and the remaining loans totaling $1.5 million are considered performing. As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired with evidence of deteriorated credit quality totaling $464,000 at June 30, 2016 and $759,000 at December 31, 2015 were not classified as non-performing loans. Non-performing assets represented 0.50% of total assets at June 30, 2106 compared to 0.72% of total assets at December 31, 2015. Management takes a proactive approach in addressing delinquent loans. The Company's President and Chief Executive Officer meets weekly with all loan officers to review the status of credits past-due 10 days or more. An action plan is discussed for delinquent 44 loans to determine the steps necessary to induce the borrower to cure the delinquency and restore the loan to a current status. In addition, delinquency notices are system-generated when loans are five days past-due and again at 15 days past-due. In most cases, the Company's collateral is real estate. If the collateral is foreclosed upon, the real estate is carried at fair market value less the estimated selling costs. The amount, if any, by which the recorded amount of the loan exceeds the fair market value of the collateral, less estimated selling costs, is a loss which is charged to the allowance for loan losses at the time of foreclosure or repossession. Resolution of a past-due loan through foreclosure can be delayed if the borrower files a bankruptcy petition because a collection action cannot be continued unless the Company first obtains relief from the automatic stay provided by the bankruptcy code. Changes in other real estate owned during the three months ended June 30, 2016 consisted principally of the sale of one residential property with a fair value of $1.0 million. 45 Allowance for Loan Losses and Related Provision The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level sufficient to absorb estimated credit losses in the loan portfolio as of the date of the financial statements.The allowance for loan losses is a valuation reserve available for losses incurred or inherent in the loan portfolio and other extensions of credit.The determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is a critical accounting policy of the Company. The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. All, or part, of the principal balance of commercial and commercial real estate loans and construction loans are charged off against the allowance as soon as it is determined that the repayment of all, or part, of the principal balance is highly unlikely.Consumer loans are generally charged off no later than 120 days past due on a contractual basis, earlier in the event of bankruptcy, or if there is an amount deemed uncollectible . Because all identified losses are charged off, no portion of the allowance for loan losses is restricted to any individual loan or groups of loans and the entire allowance is available to absorb any and all loan losses. Management reviews the adequacy of the allowance on at least a quarterly basis to ensure that the provision for loan losses has been charged against earnings in an amount necessary to maintain the allowance at a level that is adequate based on management's assessment of probable estimated losses. The Company's methodology for assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses consists of several key elements and is consistent with U.S. GAAP and interagency supervisory guidance.The allowance for loan losses methodology consists of two major components.The first component is an estimation of losses associated with individually identified impaired loans, which follows Accounting Standards Codification ASC Topic 310 (formerly SFAS 114).The second major component is an estimation of losses under ASC Topic 450 (formerly SFAS 5), which provides guidance for estimating losses on groups of loans with similar risk characteristics.The Company's methodology results in an allowance for loan losses that includes a specific reserve for impaired loans, an allocated reserve and an unallocated portion. When analyzing groups of loans under ASC Topic 450, the Bank follows the Interagency Policy Statement on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses.The methodology considers the Company's historical loss experience adjusted for changes in trends, conditions, and other relevant factors that affect repayment of the loans as of the evaluation date.These adjustment factors, known as qualitative factors, include: Delinquencies and non-accruals Portfolio quality Concentration of credit Trends in volume of loans Quality of collateral Policy and procedures Experience, ability, and depth of management Economic trends national and local External factors competition, legal and regulatory The methodology includes the segregation of the loan portfolio into loan types with a further segregation into risk rating categories, such as special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss. This allows for an allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan type; however, the allowance is available to absorb any loan loss without restriction.Larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans representing significant individual credit exposures are evaluated individually through the internal loan review process.It is this process that produces the watch list.The borrower's overall financial condition, repayment sources, guarantors and value of collateral, if appropriate, are evaluated. Based on these reviews, an estimate of probable losses for the individual larger-balance loans is determined, whenever possible, and used to establish specific loan loss reserves.In general, for non-homogeneous loans not individually assessed and for homogeneous groups of loans, such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type, and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The watch list includes loans that are assigned a rating of special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss.Loans classified as special mention have potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention.If uncorrected, the potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects.Loans classified as substandard have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt.They include loans that are inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any.Loans classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in loans classified as substandard with the added characteristic that collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of current conditions and facts, is highly improbable.Loans rated as doubtful in whole, or in part, are placed in non-accrual status.Loans classified as a loss are considered uncollectible and are charged-off against the allowance for loan losses. 46 The specific allowance for impaired loans is established for specific loans which have been identified by management as being impaired. These loans are considered to be impaired primarily because the loans have not performed according to payment terms and there is reason to believe that repayment of the loan principal in whole, or in part, is unlikely. The specific portion of the allowance is the total amount of potential unconfirmed losses for these individual impaired loans. To assist in determining the fair value of loan collateral, the Company often utilizes independent third party qualified appraisal firms, which employ their own criteria and assumptions that may include occupancy rates, rental rates, and property expenses, among others. The second category of reserves consists of the allocated portion of the allowance.The allocated portion of the allowance is determined by taking pools of outstanding loans that have similar characteristics and applying historical loss experience for each pool.This estimate represents the potential unconfirmed losses within the portfolio. Individual loan pools are created for commercial and commercial real estate loans, construction loans, warehouse lines of credit, and various types of loans to individuals.The historical estimation for each loan pool is then adjusted to account for current conditions, current loan portfolio performance, loan policy or management changes, or any other qualitative factor which may cause future losses to deviate from historical levels. The Company also maintains an unallocated allowance.The unallocated allowance is used to cover any factors or conditions which may cause a potential loan loss but are not specifically identifiable.It is prudent to maintain an unallocated portion of the allowance because no matter how detailed an analysis of potential loan losses is performed, these estimates, by definition, lack precision.Management must make estimates using assumptions and information that is often subjective and changing rapidly. The following discusses the risk characteristics of each of our loan portfolio segments-commercial, mortgage warehouse lines of credit, and consumer. Commercial The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans. Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values. Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. Mortgage Warehouse Lines of Credit The Company's Mortgage Warehouse Unit provides revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and others. On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market. Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment. As a separate segment of the total portfolio, the warehouse loan portfolio is individually analyzed as a whole for allowance for loan loss purposes.Warehouse lines of credit are subject to the same inherent risks as other commercial lending, but the overall degree of risk differs. While the Company's loss experience with this type of lending has been non-existent since the product was introduced in 2008, there are other risks unique to this lending that still must be considered in assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. These unique risks may include, but are not limited to, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from the Bank, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of such mortgage bankers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under a warehouse line of credit, due to changes in interest rates during the time in warehouse, or (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans so originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker. These factors, along with the other qualitative factors such as economic trends, concentrations of credit, trends in the volume of loans, portfolio quality, delinquencies and non-accruals, are also considered and may have positive or negative effects on the allocated allowance.The aggregate amount resulting from the application of these qualitative factors determines the overall risk for the portfolio and results in an allocated allowance for warehouse lines of credit. Consumer The Company's consumer loan segment is comprised of residential real estate loans, home equity loans and other loans to individuals. Individual loan pools are created for the various types of loans to individuals. 47 In general, for homogeneous groups such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The Company considers the following credit quality indicators in assessing the risk in the loan portfolio: Consumer credit scores Internal credit risk grades Loan-to-value ratios Collateral Collection experience The following table presents, for the periods indicated, an analysis of the allowance for loan losses and other related data: 48 The following table represents the allocation of the allowance for loan losses ("ALL") among the various categories of loans and certain other information as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively.The allocation is made for analytical purposes and is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which future losses may occur. The total allowance is available to absorb losses from any segment of loans. The Company recorded a credit (negative) provision for loan losses in the amount of $100,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and did not record a provision for the three months ended June 30, 2015.The Company recorded a credit to the provision for loan losses in the amount of $100,000 in the second quarter of 2016 due to lower historical loan loss factors resulting from the resolution and reduction of non-performing loans, the improvement in loan credit quality and the low level of charge-offs over the past five quarters.Net recoveries on loans that were previously charged-off were $280,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to net charge-offs of $13,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Net recoveries of loans that were previously charged-off were $222,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to net charge-offs of $74,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2015. There was a significant favorable impact on the amount of the allowance for loan losses allocated to commercial business loans at June 30, 2016 due to the significant reduction of net charge-offs in the two year historical loss calculation period. In the second quarter of 2014, the Bank recorded a charge-off of approximately $3.7 million due to fraudulent misrepresentations by a commercial borrower and its principals. This substantial charge-off was no longer included in the historical loss calculation period at June 30, 2016 and the historical loss rate declined accordingly. At June 30, 2016, the allowance for loan losses was $7.5 million, a $78,000 decrease from the allowance for loan losses at December31, 2015. As a percentage of total loans, the allowance was 0.98% at the end of the second quarter of 2016 and 1.11% at year-end 2015. The allowance for loan losses was 145% of non-accrual loans at June 30, 2016 compared to 126% of non-accrual loans at December 31, 2015. Management believes that the quality of the loan portfolio remains sound considering the economic climate in the State of New Jersey and that the allowance for loan losses is adequate in relation to credit risk exposure levels and the estimated incurred and inherent losses in the loan portfolio. Deposits Deposits, which include demand deposits (interest bearing and non-interest bearing), savings deposits and time deposits, are a fundamental and cost-effective source of funding.The flow of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, changes in market interest rates and competition.The Bank offers a variety of products designed to attract and retain customers, with the Bank's primary focus on the building and expanding of long-term relationships. The following table summarizes deposits at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . 49 At June 30, 2016, total deposits were $791.5 million, an increase of $4.7 million, or 0.60%, from $786.8 million at December 31, 2015.Overall, the increase in deposits was due primarily to an increase of $10.9 million in non-interest bearing demand deposits and an increase of $5.4 million in savings deposits, which were partially offset by a decrease of $9.0 million in interest bearing demand deposits and a decrease of $2.5 million in time deposits. Since December 31, 2015, total deposits from consumers and businesses have increased $20.4 million and deposits from municipalities have declined by $15.7 million, which includes a decline of $9.1 million in savings deposits. 50 Borrowings Borrowings are mainly comprised of Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") borrowings and overnight funds purchased.These borrowings are primarily used to fund asset growth not supported by deposit generation.The balance of borrowings was $149.9 million at June 30, 2016, consisting of $97.7 million in overnight borrowings from the FHLB, $32.0 million in fed funds purchased from correspondent banks and $20.2 million of long-term FHLB borrowings, compared to $58.9 million at December 31, 2015, which consisted of $38.6 million of overnight borrowings from the FHLB and $20.3 million of long-term FHLB borrowings. Liquidity At June30, 2016 , the amount of liquid assets and the Bank's access to off-balance sheet liquidity remained at a level management deemed adequate to ensure that contractual liabilities, depositors' withdrawal requirements, and other operational and customer credit needs could be satisfied. Liquidity management refers to the Company's ability to support asset growth while satisfying the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of customers.In addition to maintaining liquid assets, factors such as capital position, profitability, asset quality and availability of funding affect a bank's ability to meet its liquidity needs.On the asset side, liquid funds are maintained in the form of cash and cash equivalents, federal funds sold, investment securities held to maturity maturing within one year, securities available for sale and loans held for sale.Additional asset-based liquidity is derived from scheduled loan repayments as well as investment repayments of principal and interest. Investment securities and loans may also be pledged to the FHLB to collateralize additional borrowings.On the liability side, the primary source of liquidity is the ability to generate core deposits.Long-term and short-term borrowings are used as supplemental funding sources when growth in the core deposit base does not keep pace with that of earnings assets. The Bank has established a borrowing relationship with the FHLB which further supports and enhances liquidity. During 2010, the FHLB replaced its Overnight Line of Credit and One-Month Overnight Repricing Line of Credit facilities available to member banks with a fully secured line of up to 50 percent of a bank's quarter-end total assets.Under the terms of this facility, the Bank's total credit exposure to the FHLB cannot exceed 50 percent, or $534.4 million, of its total assets at June30, 2016 .In addition, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Bank's advances, letters of credit, the dollar amount of the FHLB's minimum collateral requirement for off-balance sheet financial contracts and advance commitments cannot exceed 30 percent of the Bank's total assets, unless the Bank obtains approval from the FHLB's Board of Directors or its Executive Committee.These limits are further restricted by a member's ability to provide eligible collateral to support its obligations to the FHLB as well as the ability to meet the FHLB's stock requirement.At June30, 2016 , the Bank pledged collateral to the FHLB to support additional borrowing capacity of $69.8 million.The Bank also maintains unsecured federal funds lines of $46.0 million with two correspondent banks, of which $32.0 million was utilized. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows present the changes in cash from operating, investing and financing activities.At June30, 2016 , the balance of cash and cash equivalents was $13.7 million. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $6.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $4.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015.A source of funds is net income from operations adjusted for activity related to loans originated for sale and sold, the provision for loan losses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and net amortization of premiums and discounts on securities.Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was greater than net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015 due primarily to a higher amount of net proceeds from the origination and sale of loans. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $99.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $88.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015.The primary use of cash in investing activities for the first six months of 2016 was the net increase in loans of $79.5 million compared to a net increase in loans of $104.2 million for the first six months of 2015. The securities portfolios are also a source of liquidity, providing cash flows from maturities and periodic repayments of principal.For the six months ended June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015, prepayments and maturities of investment securities totaled $22.2 million and $35.5 million, respectively.Cash was used to purchase investment securities of $40.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to purchases of $14.6 million of investment securities for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Net cash provided by financing activities was $95.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $85.9 million of net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2015.The primary source of funds for the 2016 period wasthe increase in borrowed funds of $91.0 million and an increase in deposits of $4.7 million. The primary source of funds in the 2015 period was the increase in borrowed funds of $105.6 million, which was partially offset by a decrease in deposits of $19.7 million. 51 Shareholders' Equity and Dividends Shareholders' equity increased by $5.7 million, or 5.9%, to $101.6 million at June 30, 2016 from $96.0 million at December 31, 2015.Tangible book value per common share increased by $0.69 to $11.13 at June 30, 2016 from $10.44 at December 31, 2015. The ratio of average shareholders' equity to total average assets was 10.17% at June 30, 2016 compared to 9.34% at December 31, 2015. Shareholders' equity increased $5.7 million due to an increase of $4.5 million in retained earnings, an increase of $777,000 in accumulated other comprehensive income, and $379,000 in share based compensation, which were partially offset by $24,000 in treasury stock purchases for the six months ended June 30, 2016. In lieu of cash dividends to common shareholders, the Company (and its predecessor, the Bank) has paid common stock dividends every year since 1993 (except 2014 due to the acquisition of Rumson).On December 18, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 14, 2016, which was paid on February 1, 2016.Per share amounts for the prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. The Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "FCCY." On January 21, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized a new common stock repurchase program. Under the new common stock repurchase program, the Company may repurchase in open market or privately negotiated transactions up to five (5%) percent of its common stock outstanding on the date of approval of the stock repurchase program, which limitation will be adjusted for any future stock dividends. This new repurchase program replaces the repurchase program authorized on August 3, 2005. Disclosure of repurchases of Company shares made during the quarter ended June30, 2016 is set forth under Part II, Item 2 of this report, "Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds." Actual capital amounts and ratios for the Company and the Bank as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: 52 In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implemented and addressed the revised standards of Basel III and addressed relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.The Federal Reserve Board's final rules and the FDIC's interim final rules (which became final in April 2014 with no substantive changes) apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more, and top-tier savings and loan holding companies ("banking organizations"). Among other things, the rules establish a common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets) and increase the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (from 4% to 6% of risk-weighted assets). Banking organizations are also required to have a total capital ratio of at least 8% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4%. The rules also limit a banking organization's ability to pay dividends, engage in share repurchases or pay discretionary bonuses if the banking organization does not hold a "capital conservation buffer" consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements.The capital conservation buffer requirements began phasing in on January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and will increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019 at 2.50% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. At June 30, 2016, the capital ratios of the Company exceeded the minimum Basel III capital requirements.It is management's goal to monitor and maintain adequate capital levels to continue to support asset growth and the expansion of the Bank and to continue its status as a well-capitalized institution. 53 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The largest component of the Company's total income is net interest income, and the majority of the Company's financial instruments are composed of interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities with various terms and maturities. The primary objective of management is to maximize net interest income while minimizing interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is derived from timing differences and the magnitude of relative changes in the repricing of assets and liabilities, loan prepayments, deposit withdrawals, and differences in lending and funding rates. Management actively seeks to monitor and control the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Under the interest rate risk policy established by the Company's Board of Directors, the Company established quantitative guidelines with respect to interest rate risk and how interest rate shocks are projected to affect net interest income and economic value of equity. Due to the current low level of market interest rates, the current monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board and recent communications from the Federal Reserve Board, management believes that is is more likely that market interest rates may increase than decrease over the intermediate term. Summarized below is the projected effect of a parallel shift of an increase of 200 and 300 basis points, respectively, in market interest rates on net interest income and economic value of equity. Based upon the current interest rate environment, as of June30, 2016 , sensitivity to interest rate risk was as follows: (1) Assumes an instantaneous and parallel shift in interest rates at all maturities. (2) EVE is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. The Company employs many assumptions to calculate the impact of changes in interest rates on assets and liabilities, and actual results may not be similar to projections due to several factors, including the timing and frequency of rate changes, market conditions and the shape of the yield curve. Actual results may also differ due to management's actions, if any, in response to changing rates. In calculating these exposures, the Company utilized an interest rate simulation model which is validated by third-party reviewers on an annual basis.Item 1.Financial Statements. 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 1 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Income (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 2 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. (1) Included in salaries and employee benefits expense on the consolidated statements of income (2) Included in income taxes on the consolidated statements of income 3 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 4 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Consolidated Statements ofCash Flows (Dollars in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 5 1 ST Constitution Bancorp Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements September30, 2016 (Unaudited) (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include 1 ST Constitution Bancorp (the "Company"), its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., 204 South Newman Street Corp., and 249 New York Avenue, LLC. 1st Constitution Capital Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements, as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary.All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.The accounting and reporting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 , filed with the SEC on March 22, 2016. In the opinion of the Company, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring accruals) which are necessary for a fair presentation of the operating results for the interim periods have been included. The results of operations for periods of less than a year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. The Company has evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date of September30, 2016 for items that should potentially be recognized or disclosed in these financial statements.The evaluation was conducted through the date these financial statements were issued. On December 18, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 14, 2016, which was paid on February 1, 2016.As appropriate, common shares and per common share data presented in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes below have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. On September 15, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.05 per common share. The cash dividend was paid on October 21, 2016 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 28, 2016. This action represented the first cash dividend declared by the Company on its common shares. The Company's Board of Directors determined that it was appropriate to initiate a quarterly cash dividend in light of the Company's strong financial condition, consistent level of net income, stable capital position and sound asset credit quality. The timing and amount of the payment of future cash dividends, if any, on the Company's common shares will be at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will be determined after consideration of various factors, including the level of earnings, cash requirements, regulatory capital and financial condition. (2) Net Income Per Common Share Basic net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, as adjusted for the assumed exercise of dilutive common stock warrants and common stock options using the treasury stock method. The following tables illustrate the reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) calculations.Dilutive securities in the tables below exclude common stock options and warrants with exercise prices that exceed the average market price of the Company's common stock during the periods presented.Inclusion of these common stock options and warrants would be anti-dilutive to the diluted earnings per common share calculation. 6 For the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , 11,130 and 79,145 options, respectively, were anti-dilutiveand were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , 20,060 and 57,135 options, respectively, were anti-dilutive and were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share. 7 (3) Investment Securities Amortized cost, carrying value, gross unrealized gains and losses, and the fair value by security type are as follows: 8 Restricted stock is included in other assets at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 and totaled $5.0 million and $3.3 million , respectively, and consisted of $4.9 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at September30, 2016 and $3.2 million of Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock and $65,000 of Atlantic Community Bankers Bank stock at December 31, 2015. Gross unrealized losses on available for sale and held to maturity securities and the fair value of the related securities aggregated by security category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: 9 The following table sets forth certain information regarding the amortized cost, carrying value, fair value, weighted average yields and contractual maturities of the Company's investment portfolio as of September30, 2016 .Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 10 U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government sponsored corporations and agencies: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.The contractual terms of these investments do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the par value of the investment.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Residential collateralized mortgage obligations and residential mortgage backed securities: The unrealized losses on investments in residential collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed securities were caused by increases in market interest rates. The contractual cash flows of these securities are guaranteed by the issuers, which are primarily government or government sponsored agencies. It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Obligations of state and political subdivisions: The unrealized losses on investments in these securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.It is expected that the securities would not be settled at a price less than the amortized cost of the investment.None of the issuers have defaulted on interest payments. These investments are not considered to be other than temporarily impaired because the decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality.The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Corporate debt securities: The unrealized losses on investments in corporate debt securities were caused by increases in market interest rates.None of the corporate issuers have defaulted on interest payments. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not a decline in credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity. Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities single issuer :The investments in these securities with unrealized losses are comprised of four corporate trust preferred securities issued by two large financial institutions that mature in 2027. The contractual terms of the trust preferred securities do not allow the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the face value of the trust preferred securities, which is greater than the amortized cost of the trust preferred securities.One of the issuers continues to maintain an investment grade credit rating and neither has defaulted on interest payments.The decline in fair value is attributable to the widening of interest rate spreads and the lack of an active trading market for these securities and market concerns about the issuers' credit quality. The Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell these investments before a market price recovery or maturity.Therefore, these investments are not considered other-than-temporarily impaired. Trust preferred debt securities pooled: This trust preferred debt security was issued by a two issuer pool (Preferred Term Securities XXV, Ltd. co-issued by Keefe, Bruyette and Woods, Inc. and First Tennessee ("PRETSL XXV")) consisting primarily of trust preferred debt securities issued by financial institution holding companies.During 2009, the Company recognized an other-than-temporary impairment of $865,000 , of which $364,000 was determined to be a credit loss and charged to operations and $501,000 was recognized in the other comprehensive income (loss) component of shareholders' equity. The primary factor used to determine the credit portion of the impairment loss recognized in the income statement for this security was the discounted present value of projected cash flow where that present value of cash flow was less than the amortized cost basis of the security.The present value of cash flow was developed using an EITF 99-20 model that considered performing collateral ratios, the level of subordination to senior tranches of the security, and credit ratings of and projected credit defaults in the underlying collateral. On a quarterly basis, management evaluates the security to determine if any additional other-than-temporary impairment is required.As of September30, 2016 , management concluded that no additional other-than-temporary impairment had occurred. 11 (4) Allowance for Loan Losses and Credit Quality Disclosure The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at September30, 2016 : The following table provides an aging of the loan portfolio by loan class at December31, 2015 : ` 12 As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired in the merger with Rumson-Fair Haven Bank and Trust Company ("Rumson")with evidence of deteriorated credit quality of $449,000 at September30, 2016 and $759,000 at December31, 2015 were not classified as non-performing loans. The Company's internal credit risk grades are based on the definitions currently utilized by the banking regulatory agencies.The grades assigned and definitions are as follows, and loans graded excellent, above average, good and watch list are treated as "pass" for grading purposes: 1. Excellent - Loans that are based upon cash collateral held at the Bank and adequately margined. Loans that are based upon "blue chip" stocks listed on the major exchanges and adequately margined. 2. Above Average - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show excellent liquidity and long-term debt is on well-spread schedules of repayment easily covered by cash flow.Such companies have been consistently profitable and have diversification in their product lines or sources of revenue.The continuation of profitable operations for the foreseeable future is likely.Management is comprised of a mix of ages, experience, and backgrounds and management succession is in place.Sources of raw materials are abundant, and for service companies, the source of revenue is abundant.Future needs have been planned for.Character and ability of individuals or company principals are excellent.Loans to individuals are supported by high net worths and liquid assets. 3. Good - Loans to companies whose balance sheets show good liquidity and cash flow adequate to meet maturities of long-term debt with a comfortable margin.Such companies have established profitable records over a number of years, and there has been growth in net worth.Operating ratios are in line with those of the industry, and expenses are in proper relationship to the volume of business done and the profits achieved.Management is well-balanced and competent in their responsibilities.Economic environment is favorable; however, competition is strong.The prospects for growth are good.Loans in this category do not meet the collateral requirements of loans in categories 1 and 2 above. Loans to individuals are supported by good net worths but whose supporting assets are illiquid. 3w. Watch - Included in this category are loans evidencing problems identified by Bank management that require closer supervision.Such problem has not developed to the point which requires a "special mention" rating.This category also covers situations where the Bank does not have adequate current information upon which credit quality can be determined.The Bank's account officer has the obligation to correct these deficiencies within 30 days from the time of notification. 4. Special Mention - A "special mention" loan has potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for the loan or in the Bank's credit position at some future date. Special mention loans are not adversely classified and do not expose the Bank to sufficient risk to warrant adverse classification. 5. Substandard - A "substandard" loan is inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or by the collateral pledged, if any. Loans so classified must have a well-defined weakness, or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the Bank will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. 6. Doubtful - A loan classified "doubtful" has all the weaknesses inherent in one classified substandard with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently known facts, conditions and values, highly questionable and improbable. 7. Loss - A loan classified "loss" is considered uncollectible and of such little value that its continuance on the books is not warranted. This classification does not mean that the loan has absolutely no recovery or salvage value, but rather it is not practical or desirable to defer writing off this basically worthless loan even though partial recovery may be affected in the future. 13 The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indicator at September30, 2016 : The following table provides a breakdown of the loan portfolio by credit quality indicator at December31, 2015 : 14 Impaired Loans Disclosures Loans are considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is determined that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan agreement, including scheduled interest payments.When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, it is also considered to be impaired.Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when: (1) the full collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain or (2) they are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal payments unless the loans are both well secured and in the process of collection. The following tables summarize the distribution of the allowance for loan losses and loans receivable by loan class and impairment method at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of September30, 2016 Period-End Allowance for Loan Losses by Impairment Method as of December31, 2015 15 The activity in the allowance for loan loss by loan class for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows : (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Lines Residential Real Estate Loans to Individuals Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2015 $1,025 $2,005 $3,049 $866 $288 $109 $- $218 $7,560 Provision charged (credited) to operations (44 ) (392 ) 46 1 (79 ) 4 - 264 (200 ) Loans charged off - - (60 ) - - - - - (60 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 1 - - - 1 - - 2 Balance - March31, 2016 $981 $1,614 $3,035 $867 $209 $114 $- $482 $7,302 Provision charged (credited) to operations (6 ) (284 ) (263 ) 323 85 3 - 42 (100 ) Loans charged off - (101 ) - - - - - - (101 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 1 378 - - 2 - - 381 Balance - June30, 2016 $975 $1,230 $3,150 $1,190 $294 $119 $- $524 $7,482 Provision charged (credited) to operations 190 486 (448 ) (46 ) 5 (9 ) - (178 ) - Loans charged off - - - - - - - - - Recoveries of loans charged off - 3 - - - 1 - - 4 Balance - September30, 2016 $1,165 $1,719 $2,702 $1,144 $299 $111 $- $346 $7,486 (Dollars in thousands) Construction Commercial Business Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Warehouse Lines Residential Real Estate Loans to Individuals Other Unallocated Total Balance - December31, 2014 $1,215 $1,761 $2,393 $896 $197 $129 $2 $332 $6,925 Provision charged (credited) to operations (98 ) 62 (4 ) 152 13 (13 ) - 388 500 Loans charged off - (62 ) - - - - - - (62 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - - - - - 1 - - 1 Balance - March31, 2015 $1,117 $1,761 $2,389 $1,048 $210 $117 $2 $720 $7,364 Provision charged (credited) to operations (27 ) (81 ) 49 71 (8 ) 3 (1 ) (6 ) - Loans charged off - (26 ) - - - - - - (26 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 5 7 - - 1 - - 13 Balance - June30, 2015 $1,090 $1,659 $2,445 $1,119 $202 $121 $1 $714 $7,351 Provision charged(credited)to operations (70 ) 127 507 (137 ) 17 (6 ) (1 ) (337 ) 100 Loans charged off - (27 ) (287 ) - - (14 ) - - (328 ) Recoveries of loans charged off - 7 - - - 2 - - 9 Balance - September30, 2015 $1,020 $1,766 $2,665 $982 $219 $103 $- $377 $7,132 When a loan is identified as impaired, the measurement of impairment is based on the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, except when the sole remaining source of repayment for the loan is the liquidation of the collateral.In such cases, the current fair value of the collateral less selling costs is used.If the value of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan, the impairment is recognized through an allowance estimate or a charge to the allowance. 16 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) September30, 2016 17 Impaired Loans Receivables (By Class) December31, 2015 18 19 Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans Purchased credit-impaired loans ("PCI") are loans acquired at a discount that are due in part to credit quality. The following table presents additional information regarding acquired credit-impaired loans at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : Changes in accretable discount for purchased credit-impaired loans for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and September30, 2015 were as follows: Consumer Mortgage Loans Secured by Residential Real Estate in Process of Foreclosure The following table summarizes the recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans secured by residential real estate in the process of foreclosure: In the normal course of business, the Bank may consider modifying loan terms for various reasons. These reasons may include as a retention strategy to compete in the current interest rate environment or as a re-amortization or extension of a loan term to better match the loan's repayment stream with the borrower's cash flow. A modified loan would be considered a troubled debt restructuring ("TDR") if the Bank grants a concession to a borrower and has determined that the borrower is troubled (i.e., experiencing financial difficulties). If the Bank restructures a loan to a troubled borrower, the loan terms (i.e., interest rate, payment, amortization period and maturity date) may be modified in various ways to enable the borrower to cover the modified debt service payments based on current financial statements and cash flow adequacy. If a borrower's hardship is thought to be temporary, then modified terms may only be offered for that time period. Where possible, the Bank would attempt to obtain additional collateral and/or secondary repayment sources at the time of the restructuring in order to put the Bank in the best possible position if the borrower is not able to meet the modified terms. The Bank will not offer modified terms if it believes that modifying the loan terms will only delay an inevitable permanent default. In evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, applicable guidance requires that a creditor must separately conclude that the restructuring constitutes a concession and the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties. There was one loan with a recorded investment of $456,000 that was modified as a TDR during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 . For the year ended December31, 2015 , there was one loan with a recorded investment of $288,000 that was modified as a TDR.There were no troubled debt restructurings that subsequently defaulted within twelve months of restructuring during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and the year ended December31, 2015 . 20 (5) Share-Based Compensation The Company's share-based incentive plans ("Stock Plans") authorize the issuance of an aggregate of 459,322 shares of the Company's common stock (as adjusted for stock dividends) pursuant to awards that may be granted in the form of stock options to purchase common stock ("Options") and awards of shares of common stock ("Stock Awards").The purpose of the Stock Plans is to attract and retain personnel for positions of substantial responsibility and to provide additional incentive to certain officers, directors, employees and other persons to promote the success of the Company.Under the Stock Plans, options may have a term of not more than ten years after the date of grant, subject to earlier termination in certain circumstances.Options are granted with an exercise price at the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant or otherwise as provided for in the Stock Plans.The grant date fair value is calculated using the Black Scholes option valuation model. As of September30, 2016 , there were 200,365 shares of common stock available for future grants under the Stock Plans, of which 160,655 shares were available for future grants under the 2013 Equity Incentive Plan and 39,710 shares were available for future grant under the 2015 Directors Stock Plan. Share-based compensation expense related to options was $33,000 and $36,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Transactions under the Stock Plans during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 are summarized as follows: The fair value of each option and the significant weighted average assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the options granted for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 are as follows: (1) The Company declared its first cash dividend on September 15, 2016. The cash dividend was paid on October 21, 2016. As of September30, 2016 , there was approximately $78,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option-based compensation arrangements granted under the Stock Plans. That cost is expected to be recognized over the next four years . 21 The following table summarizes the activity in non-vested restricted shares for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 : The value of restricted shares is based upon the closing price of the common stock on the date of grant. The shares generally vest over a 4 year service period for employees and a 2 year service period for non-employee directors with compensation expense recognized on a straight-line basis. Share-based compensation expense related to stock grants was $497,000 and $447,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. As of September30, 2016 , there was approximately $1.5 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock grants.Compensation costs related to non-vested stock grants are recognized over four years for employees and two years for non-employee directors from the date of grant. (6) Benefit Plans The Bank has a 401(k) plan which covers substantially all employees with six months or more of service.The Bank's 401(k) plan permits all eligible employees to make contributions to the plan up to the IRS salary deferral limit.The Bank's contributions to the 401(k) plan are expensed as incurred. The Company also provides retirement benefits to certain employees under supplemental executive retirement plans.The plans are unfunded and the Company accrues actuarially determined benefit costs over the estimated service period of the employees in the plans.The Company recognizes the over-funded or under-funded status of a defined benefit post-retirement plan as an asset or liability on itsbalance sheetand recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur, through comprehensive income. In connection with the benefit plans, the Bank has life insurance policies on the lives of its executives, directors and divisional officers. The Bank is the owner and beneficiary of these policies. The cash surrender values of these policies totaled approximately $22.0 million and $21.6 million at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The components of net periodic expense for the Company's supplemental executive retirement plans for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 22 (7) Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) is the total of (1) net income (loss), and (2) all other changes in equity from non-shareholder sources, which are referred to as other comprehensive income (loss).The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and the related tax effects, are as follows: Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows and are presented net of tax: 23 24 (8) Recent Accounting Pronouncements ASU Update 2016-15 - Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments . In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15 "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments" which clarifies whether the following items should be categorized as operating, investing or financing in the statement of cash flows: (1) debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, (2) settlement of zero-coupon debt, (3) settlement of contingent consideration, (4) insurance proceeds, (5) settlement of corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) and bank-owned life insurance policies (BOLI) policies, (6) distributions from equity method investees, (7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions and (8) receipts and payments with aspects of more than one class of cash flows. For public business entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within those fiscal years. For all other entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13 "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" which requires credit losses on most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments to be measured using an expected credit loss model (referred to as the current expected credit loss (CECL) model). Under this model, entities will estimate credit losses over the entire contractual term of the instrument (considering estimated prepayments, but not expected extensions or modifications unless reasonable expectation of a troubled debt restructuring exists) from the date of initial recognition of that instrument. The ASU also replaces the current accounting model for purchased credit impaired loans and debt securities. The allowance for credit losses for purchased financial assets with a more-than-insignificant amount of credit deterioration since origination ("PCD assets") should be determined in a similar manner to other financial assets measured on an amortized cost basis. Upon initial recognition, the allowance for credit losses is added to the purchase price ("gross up approach") to determine the initial amortized cost basis. The subsequent accounting for PCD financial assets will use the CECL model described above. The ASU made certain targeted amendments to the existing impairment model for available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities. For an AFS debt security for which there is neither the intent nor a more-likely-than-not requirement to sell, an entity will record credit losses as an allowance rather than a write-down of the amortized cost basis. For public business entities that are SEC filers, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted for all entities as of the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-09 Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09 "Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting" to simplify the accounting for stock compensation. The ASU focuses on income tax accounting, award classification, estimating forfeitures and cash flow presentation. The ASU also provides certain accounting policy alternatives to nonpublic entities. The ASU simplifies several aspects of the stock compensation guidance in Topic 718 and other related guidance. The following six amendments apply to all entities: (1) accounting for income taxes upon vesting or exercise of share-based payments and related EPS effects, (2) classification of excess tax benefits on the statement of cash flows, (3) accounting for forfeitures, (4) liability classification exception for statutory tax withholding requirements, (5) cash flow presentation of employee taxes paid when an employer withholds shares for tax-withholding purposes and (6) elimination of the indefinite deferral in Topic 718. For public business entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. For all other entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 25 15, 2017, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted for any entity in any interim or annual period for which the financial statements have not been issued or made available to be issued. If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-02: Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 "Leases ." From the lessee's perspective, the new standard establishes a right- of-use ("ROU") model that requires a lessee to record a ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement for a lessee. From the lessor's perspective, the new standard requires a lessor to classify leases as either sales-type, finance or operating. A lease will be treated as a sale if it transfers all of the risks and rewards, as well as control of the underlying asset, to the lessee. If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as a financing. If the lessor doesn't convey risks and rewards or control, an operating lease results. The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessors for sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2016-01 Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01 "Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities." The guidance in the ASU, among other things, requires equity investments, with certain exceptions, to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment; eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet; requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes; requires an entity to present separately in other comprehensive income, the portion of the change in fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments; requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the financial statements; and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale securities. The guidance in this ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU Update 2015-16 Business Combination (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments. In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-16 "Business Combination (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments," to require adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period to be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This includes any effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization or other income as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. The amendments in this update would require an entity to disclose (either on the face of the income statement or in the notes) the nature and amount of measurement-period adjustments recognized in the current period, including, separately, the amounts in current-period income statement line items that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. The amendments are effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015 and for all other entities for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2016 and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Adoption of this guidance in 2016 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. 26 ASU 2014-9 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-9, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." The objective of this amendment is to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for U.S. GAAP.This update affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of non-financial assets unless those contracts are in the scope of other standards.This ASU, which does not apply to financial instruments, is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that year. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. ASU 2014-12 Accounting for Share-Based-Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved After the Requisite Service Period (a consensus of the FAS Emerging Issues Task Force). In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-12, "Accounting for Share-Based-Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved After the Requisite Service Period," which requires that a performance target included in a share-based payment award that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. This update is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The amendments can be applied prospectively to all awards granted or modified after the effective date or retrospectively to all awards with performance targets that are outstanding as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented and to all new or modified awards thereafter. Adoption of this guidance in 2016 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. (9) Fair Value Disclosures U.S. GAAP has established a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation methods used to measure fair value.The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical unrestricted assets or liabilities. Level 2: Quoted prices in markets that are not active, or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (i.e., supported with little or no market activity). An asset's or liability's level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. A description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy, is set forth below.These valuation methodologies were applied to all of the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value. In general, fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available.If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters.Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and counterparty creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters.Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time.The Company's valuation methodologies may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future values.While management believes the Company's valuation methodologies are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Securities Available for Sale .Securities classified as available for sale are reported at fair value utilizing quoted market prices on nationally recognized exchanges (Level 1) or by using Level 2 inputs.For Level 2 securities, the Company obtains fair value measurements from an independent pricing service.The fair value measurements consider observable data that may include dealer quotes, market spreads, cash flows, the U.S. Treasury yield curve, live trading levels, trade execution data, market consensus prepayments speeds, credit information and the security's terms and conditions, among other things. 27 Impaired loans. Loans included in the following table are those which the Company has measured and recognized impairment, generally based on the fair value of the loan's collateral.Fair value is generally determined based upon independent third party appraisals of the collateral or discounted cash flows based on the expected proceeds.These assets are included as Level 3 fair values, based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements.The fair value consists of the loan balances less specific valuation allowances. Other Real Estate Owned. Foreclosed properties are adjusted to fair value less estimated selling costs at the time of foreclosure in preparation for transfer from portfolio loans to other real estate owned ("OREO"), establishing a new accounting basis. The Company subsequently adjusts the fair value of the OREO utilizing Level 3 inputs on a non-recurring basis to reflect partial write-downs based on the observable market price, current appraised value of the asset or other estimates of fair value. The fair value of other real estate owned is determined using appraisals, which may be discounted based on management's review and changes in market conditions. The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis segregated by the level of the valuation inputs within the fair value hierarchy utilized to measure fair value: Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment).Assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: 28 Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at September30, 2016 consisted of nine loans having an aggregate recorded investment of $4.3 million and specific loan loss allowances of $340,000 .Impaired loans measured at fair value and included in the above table at December 31, 2015 consisted of nine loans having an aggregate balance of $4.3 million with a specific loan loss allowance of $326,000 . The following table presents additional qualitative information about assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, where there was evidence of impairment, and for which the Company has utilized Level 3 inputs to determine fair value: (1) Fair value is generally determined through independent appraisals of the underlying collateral, which generally include various Level 3 inputs which are not identifiable. (2) Includes qualitative adjustments by management and estimated liquidation expenses. The following is a summary of fair value versus carrying value of all of the Company's financial instruments.For the Company and the Bank, as with most financial institutions, the bulk of their assets and liabilities are considered financial instruments.Many of the financial instruments lack an available trading market as characterized by a willing buyer and willing seller engaging in an exchange transaction.Therefore, significant estimations and present value calculations were used for the purpose of this note.Changes in assumptions could significantly affect these estimates. Estimated fair values have been determined by using the best available data and an estimation methodology suitable for each category of financial instruments as follows: Cash and Cash Equivalents, Accrued Interest Receivable and Accrued Interest Payable (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accrued interest receivable and accrued interest payable approximate fair value. Securities Held to Maturity (Carried at Amortized Cost). The fair values of securities held to maturity are determined in the same manner as for securities available for sale. Loans Held For Sale (Carried at Lower of Aggregated Cost or Fair Value). The fair values of loans held for sale are determined, when possible, using quoted secondary market prices. If no such quoted market prices exist, fair values are determined using quoted prices for similar loans, adjusted for the specific attributes of the loans. Gross Loans Receivable (Carried at Cost). The fair values of loans, excluding impaired loans subject to specific loss reserves, are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses that use market rates as of the balance sheet date that reflect the credit and interest rate-risk inherent in the loans.Projected future cash flows are calculated based upon contractual maturity or call dates, 29 projected repayments and prepayments of principal.Generally, for variable rate loans that re-price frequently and with no significant change in credit risk, fair values are based on carrying values. Deposit Liabilities (Carried at Cost). The fair values disclosed for demand deposits (e.g., interest and non-interest demand and savings accounts) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts).Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered in the market on certificates of deposit to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits. Borrowings and Subordinated Debt (Carried at Cost). The carrying amounts of short-term borrowings approximate their fair values. The fair values of long-term FHLB advances are estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, based on quoted or estimated interest rates for new borrowings with similar credit risk characteristics, terms and remaining maturity. For subordinated debt, which reprices quarterly, the fair value is based on inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for similar debt obligations. The estimated fair values and carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: Loan commitments and standby letters of credit as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were based on fees charged for similar agreements; accordingly, the estimated fair value of loan commitments and standby letters of credit was nominal. 30 Item 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion and analysis of the operating results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and financial condition at September30, 2016 is intended to help readers analyze the accompanying financial statements, notes and other supplemental information contained in this document. Results of operations for the three and nine month periods ended September30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of results to be attained for any other period. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, notes and tables included elsewhere in this report and Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Form 10-K (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation) for the year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 22, 2016. General Throughout the following sections, the "Company" refers to 1 ST Constitution Bancorp and, as the context requires, its wholly-owned subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Bank (the "Bank"), and the Bank's wholly-owned subsidiaries, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc., FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., LLC, 204 South Newman Street Corp. and 249 New York Avenue, LLC.1 ST Constitution Capital Trust II ("Trust II"), a subsidiary of the Company, is not included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as it is a variable interest entity and the Company is not the primary beneficiary. Trust II, a subsidiary of the Company, was created in May 2006 to issue trust preferred securities to assist the Company in raising additional capital. The Company is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Company was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in February 1999 for the purpose of acquiring all of the issued and outstanding stock of the Bank, a full service commercial bank which began operations in August 1989, thereby enabling the Bank to operate within a bank holding company structure. The Company became an active bank holding company on July 1, 1999. Other than its ownership interest in the Bank, the Company currently conducts no other significant business activities. The Bank operates nineteen branches, four residential mortgage loan production offices and manages an investment portfolio through its subsidiary, 1 ST Constitution Investment Company of New Jersey, Inc.FCB Assets Holdings, Inc., a subsidiary of the Bank, is used by the Bank to manage and dispose of repossessed real estate. When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three and nine month periods ended September30, 2016 (this "Form 10-Q"), the words "the Company," "we," "our," and "us" refer to 1st Constitution Bancorp and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless we indicate otherwise. Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act").The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements.When used in this and in future filings by the Company with the SEC, in the Company's press releases and in oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer of the Company, the words or phrases "will," "will likely result," "could," "anticipates," "believes," "continues," "expects," "plans," "will continue," "is anticipated," "estimated," "project" or "outlook" or similar expressions (including confirmations by an authorized executive officer of the Company of any such expressions made by a third party with respect to the Company) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The Companycautions readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, each of which speaks only as of the date made.Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from those results expressed or implied, include, but are not limited to, those listed under "Business", "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 filed with the SEC on March 22, 2016, such as the overall economy and the interest rate environment; the ability of customers to repay their obligations; the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; competition; significant changes in accounting, tax or regulatory practices and requirements; certain interest rate risks; risks associated with investments in mortgage-backed securities;risks associated with speculative construction lending; and risks associated with safeguarding information technology systems. Although management has taken certain steps to mitigate any negative effect of the aforementioned items, significant unfavorable changes could severely impact the assumptions used and could have an adverse effect on profitability. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements, except as required by law. 31 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Compared to Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Summary The Company reported net income of $2.7 million for three months ended September 30, 2016 and $2.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Net income per diluted share was $0.33 for the third quarter of 2016 compared to net income per diluted share of $0.30 for the third quarter of 2015. Net income per diluted share increased 10% due to an increase of $233,000, or 9.5%, in net income. The Company reported net income of $7.2 million or $0.89 per diluted share for the nine month period ended September30, 2016 compared to net income of $7.0 million or $0.87 per diluted share for the nine month period ended September30, 2015 . Return on average assets and return on average equity were 1.03% and 10.45%, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to return on average assets and return on average equity of 0.98% and 10.56%, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Book value and tangible book value per share were $13.02 and $11.39, respectively at September30, 2016 . Return on average assets and return on average equity were 0.97% and 9.68%, respectively, for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to return on average assets and return on average equity of 0.96% and 10.46%, respectively, for the nine months ended September30, 2015 . Third Quarter Highlights Net income was $2.7 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to $2.5 million in the third quarter of 2015. Net interest income was $9.5 million in the third quarter of 2016, a decrease of $175,000 from $9.7 million in the third quarter of 2015, and the net interest margin was 3.92% and 4.19% on a tax equivalent basis for the respective periods. Return on average assets and return on average equity were 1.03% and 10.45%, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 0.98% and 10.56%, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Non-performing assets were $5.4 million and 0.51% of assets at September30, 2016 compared to $7.0 million and 0.72% of assets at December31, 2015 . The Bank did not record a provision for loan losses in the third quarter of 2016 due to lower historical loan loss factors that reflected the continued improvement in loan credit quality and the current economic and operating environment. On September 16, 2016, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per common share which was paid on October 21, 2016 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 28, 2016. This action represented the first cash dividend declared by the Company on its common shares. Earnings Analysis The Bank's results of operations depend primarily on net interest income, which is primarily affected by the market interest rate environment, the shape of the U.S. Treasury yield curve, and the difference between the yield on interest-earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities.Other factors that may affect the Bank's operating results are general and local economic and competitive conditions, government policies and actions of regulatory authorities. Net Interest Income Net interest income, the Company's largest and most significant component of operating income, is the difference between interest and fees earned on loans and other earning assets and interest paid on deposits and borrowed funds. This component represented 84.4% of the Company's net revenues (defined as net interest income plus non-interest income) for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 87.1% of net revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Net interest income also depends upon the relative amount of average interest-earning assets, average interest-bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned or paid on them, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , net interest income represented 84.5% of the Company's net revenues compared to 83.3% of net revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . 32 The following tables set forth the Company's consolidated average balances of assets and liabilities and shareholders' equity as well as interest income and expense on related items, and the Company's average yield or rate for the three and nine month periods ended September30, 2016 and 2015 . The average rates are derived by dividing interest income and expense by the average balance of assets and liabilities, respectively. (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. 33 (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets. (4) Tax-equivalent basis. The tax equivalent adjustment was $246 and $251 for the three months ended September30, 2016 and September30, 2015 , respectively. (1) Loan origination fees are considered an adjustment to interest income.For the purpose of calculating loan yields, average loan balances include non-accrual loans with no related interest income and the average balance of loans held for sale. Please refer to Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading "Non-Performing Assets" for a discussion of the Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans. (2) The net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. (3) The net interest margin is equal to net interest income divided by average interest earning assets. 34 (4) Tax-equivalent basis. The tax equivalent adjustment was $745 and $772 for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and September30, 2015 , respectively. Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to three months ended September 30, 2015 Net interest income was $9.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , which represented a decrease of $175,000 compared to net interest income of $9.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in net interest income in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 was due primarily to an increase of $186,000 in interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest income on average interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, was $11.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Average interest-earning assets increased to $987.8 million for the three month period ended September30, 2016 from $938.3 million for the three month period ended September30, 2015 and the average yield on interest-earning assets decreased to 4.47% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the average yield on interest-earning assets of 4.68% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The yield on loans and investments declined due to the continued low interest rate environment as new loans were originated at yields lower than the average yield on loans in the prior period and investments were purchased at yields lower than the average yield on investments in the prior period. Interest expense on average interest-bearing liabilities was $1.4 million, or 0.71%, for the third quarter of 2016 compared to $1.2 million, or 0.63%, for the third quarter of 2015. The increase of $186,000 in interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities for the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 primarily reflects higher short-term market interest rates in 2016 and increased competition for deposits compared to 2015. The Board of the Federal Reserve increased the targeted federal funds rate in December 2015 by 25 basis points, which impacted short-term market rates in 2016. The net interest margin, on a tax-equivalent basis, declined to 3.92% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 4.19% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to the lower yield on interest-earning assets and the higher cost of average interest-bearing liabilities. Average interest-earning assets increased by $49.5 million, or 5.28%, to $987.8 million for the three month period ended September30, 2016 from $938.3 million for the three month period ended September30, 2015 due to the increase in average loans and average investment securities balances.The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, decreased 21 basis points to 4.47% for the three month period ended September30, 2016 compared to 4.68% for the three month period ended September30, 2015 due primarily to the decreases in the average yield on loans and investments for the quarter ended September30, 2016 compared to the quarter ended September30, 2015 . Average interest-bearing liabilities increased by $31.3 million, or 4.3%, to $762.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 from $731.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to increases in savings accounts, other borrowed funds, certificates of deposit and money market and NOW accounts. Overall, the cost of total interest-bearing liabilities increased 8 basis points to 0.71% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 from 0.63% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2015 For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , the Company's net interest income decreased by $1.0 million, or 3.7%, to $26.6 million compared to $27.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was due primarily to the decrease in the average yield on interest-earning assets and an increase in interest expense on average interest-bearing liabilities. Interest expense on average interest-bearing liabilities was $3.8 million, or 0.70%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $3.5 million, or 0.64%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase of $332,000 in interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities for the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 primarily reflects higher short-term market interest rates and increased competition for deposits in 2016 compared to 2015. The Board of the Federal Reserve increased the targeted federal funds rate in December 2015 by 25 basis points, which impacted short-term market rates in 2016. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , the net interest margin, on a tax-equivalent basis, was 3.89% compared to 4.11% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Average interest-earning assets increased by $13.3 million, or 1.4%, to $935.6 million for the nine month period ended September30, 2016 from $922.3 million for the nine month period ended September30, 2015 . The overall yield on interest-earning assets, on a tax-equivalent basis, decreased 17 basis points to 4.45% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 4.62% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , primarily due to the decline in the yield on average loans to 5.12% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the yield on average loans of 5.24% for the nine months ended 35 September 30, 2015 and the $3.3 million decrease in the average balance of the loan portfolio for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Average interest-bearing liabilities decreased by $963,000, or 0.13%, to $720.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $721.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to decreases in money market and NOW accounts and certificates of deposit that were partially offset by increases in savings accounts and other borrowed funds. The total cost of interest-bearing liabilities increased by 6 basis points to 0.70% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from 0.64% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to higher short-term market interest rates in 2016. Provision for Loan Losses Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to three months ended September 30, 2015 Management considers a complete review of the following specific factors in determining the provisions for loan losses: historical losses by loan category, the level of non-accrual loans and problem loans as identified through internal review and classification, collateral values and the growth, size and risk elements of the loan portfolio. In addition to these factors, management takes into consideration current economic conditions and local real estate market conditions. In general, over the last three years, the Bank experienced an improvement in loan credit quality and achieved a steady resolution of non-performing loans and assets related to the severe recession, which was reflected in the current lower level of non-performing loans at September30, 2016 . Net charge-offs of commercial and commercial real estate loans in 2015 and 2016 have declined significantly, which has resulted in a reduction of the historical loss factors for these segments of the loan portfolio that were applied by management to estimate the allowance for loan losses at September30, 2016 . For the third quarter of 2016, net recoveries of $4,000 were recorded. The lower historical loss factors due to the improvement in loan credit quality resulted in a lower estimated allowance for loan losses of $7.5 million at September30, 2016 . Accordingly, a provision for loan losses was not required for the third quarter of 2016 compared to a provision for loan losses in the amount of $100,000 for the third quarter of 2015. At September30, 2016 , non-performing loans decreased by $782,000, or 13.0%, to $5.2 million from $6.0 million at December31, 2015 and the ratio of non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.70% at September30, 2016 compared to 0.88% at December31, 2015 . Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2015 A credit (negative) provision for loan losses of $300,000 was recorded for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to a provision for loan losses in the amount of $600,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The credit provision for loan losses for the first nine months of 2016 reflected gross recoveries of loans previously charged-off of $387,000, gross charge-offs of $161,000 and net recoveries of $226,000 compared to net charge-offs of $393,000 for the first nine months of 2015. Non-performing loans declined to $5.2 million at September30, 2016 compared to $6.0 million at December31, 2015 . Non-Interest Income Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to three months ended September 30, 2015 Total non-interest income was $1.8 million for the third quarter of 2016, an increase of $333,000, or 23.3%, compared to $1.4 million for the third quarter of 2015. The increase in non-interest income for the third quarter of 2016 was due primarily to an increase of $272,000 in other income to $586,000 compared to other income of $314,000 for the third quarter of 2015 and an increase in gains on sales of loans of $93,000 to $876,000 compared to gains of $783,000 for the third quarter of 2015. The Bank originates and sells commercial loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration ("SBA") and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. SBA guaranteed commercial lending activity and loan sales vary from period to period. In the third quarter of 2016, $3.5 million of SBA loans were sold and gains of $347,000 were recorded compared to $2.2 million of loans sold and gains of $193,000 recorded in the third quarter of 2015. In the third quarter of 2016, $12.2 million of residential mortgages were sold and $529,000 of gains were recorded compared to $38.0 million of loans sold and $590,000 of gains recorded in the third quarter of 2015. Residential mortgage lending activity was lower in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 due principally to the turnover of employees in the Bank's residential mortgage unit earlier in the year. Gain on sale of residential mortgages for the third quarter of 2016 included $173,000, which represented the estimated fair value of the derivative for locked-rate residential mortgage loan commitments to borrowers. Gain on sale of residential mortgages in the third quarter of 2015 did not include an amount for the estimated fair value of the derivative for locked-rate residential mortgage loan commitments to borrowers because the amount was immaterial. Changes in the pricing of the Bank's residential mortgage loan offerings in the third quarter of 2016 contributed approximately $111,000 to gain on sale of residential mortgages. 36 To replace the loss of personnel and enhance the Bank's residential lending capabilities, the Bank hired 20 employees on July 25, 2016, including residential mortgage loan originators and operating personnel. The addition of this experienced and productive residential mortgage lending team is expected to enhance the Bank's residential mortgage lending capabilities and broaden its lending products to include Federal Housing Administration insured residential mortgages. Service charge revenues were slightly lower at $185,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $186,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 . Non-interest income also includes income from bank-owned life insurance ("BOLI"), which amounted to $113,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $144,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 . The other income component of non-interest income increased to $586,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $314,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in other income was due primarily to an insurance recovery of $125,000 and a recovery of $75,000 in excess of the carrying value of an acquired non-performing loan. The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box rental fees, wire transfer service fees and automated teller machine fees for non-Bank customers. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2015 Total non-interest income for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $4.9 million, a decrease of $655,000, or 11.8%, compared to total non-interest income of $5.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was due primarily to a decrease of $753,000 in gains on the sale of loans, which was partially offset by an increase of $161,000 in other income. Service charge revenues decreased to $558,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $615,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was due primarily to lower monthly service charges and lower overdraft fees collected on deposit accounts. Gains on sales of loans originated for sale decreased by $753,000 to $2.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $3.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The Bank sells both loans guaranteed by the SBA and residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , SBA loan sales were $13.3 million and generated gains on sales of loans of approximately $1.2 million compared to SBA loan sales of $14.1 million that generated gains on sales of $1.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation sold $50.7 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains from the sales of loans of $1.3 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , the Bank's residential mortgage banking operation sold $116.0 million of residential mortgage loans, which generated gains on sale of loans of $1.9 million. The decline in the residential lending activity and gains on the sale of loans was due to the turnover of personnel that occurred in the first two quarters of 2016, which significantly reduced the volume of loans originated and sold for the first three quarters of 2016. Gain on sale of residential mortgages for the first three quarters of 2016 included $225,000, which represented the estimated fair value of the derivative for locked-rate residential mortgage loan commitments to borrowers. Gain on sale of residential mortgages for the first three quarters of 2015 did not include an amount for the estimated fair value of the derivative for locked-rate residential mortgage loan commitments to borrowers because the amount was immaterial. Non-interest income also includes income from BOLI, which amounted to $414,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $420,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The Bank also generates non-interest income from a variety of fee-based services. These include safe deposit box fees, wire transfer fees and automated teller machine fees for non-Bank customers. The other income component of non-interest income increased to $1.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in other income in 2016 was due primarily to an insurance recovery of $125,000 and a recovery of $75,000 in excess of the carrying value of an acquired non-performing loan. Non-Interest Expenses Non-interest expenses were $7.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $7.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease of $283,000, or 3.8% in total non-interest expense, was due primarily to a $331,000, or 31.7%, decrease in other operating expenses and a decrease in other real estate owned expenses of $107,000, or 90.0%, which were partially offset by an increase of $159,000, or 3.6%, in salaries and benefits expense and an increase of $61,000, or 33.0%, in regulatory, professional and other fees. Non-interest expenses were $21.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $22.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease of $1.3 million, or 5.7%, was due primarily to a $555,000, or 88.0%, decrease 37 in other real estate owned expenses, a $440,000, or 15.8%, decrease in other operating expenses and a $202,000, or 38.1%, decrease in FDIC insurance expense. The following table presents the major components of non-interest expenses for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 : ` Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to three months ended September 30, 2015 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, increased by $159,000, or 3.6%, to $4.5 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $4.4 million for the three months ended September30, 2015 . The increase in salaries and employee benefits was a result of an increase in full-time equivalent employees, primarily in the residential lending group, which was partially offset by lower commissions in the amount of $142,000 paid to residential loan officers as a result of the lower volume of residential mortgage loans originated in the third quarter of 2016. Full-time equivalent employees at September30, 2016 increased to 198.5 compared to 184 full-time equivalent employees at September30, 2015 . Occupancy expense increased by $43,000, or 4.5%, to $1.0 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $963,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 .The increase for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September30, 2015 was due primarily to the addition of four residential loan production offices in the third quarter of 2016. The cost of data processing services decreased slightly to $314,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 from $326,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 . FDIC insurance expense decreased $55,000 to $105,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $160,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 primarily due to a lower assessment rate that reflected the improvement in asset quality and the improved financial performance of the Bank in the last two years. Other real estate owned expenses decreased by $107,000 to $12,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $119,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 due to the significant reduction in OREO assets in 2016 compared to 2015. At September30, 2016 , the Company held one commercial property with a carrying value of $166,000 as OREO compared to three properties with an aggregate carrying value of $4.9 million at September30, 2015 . Regulatory, professional and other fees increased by $61,000, or 33.0%, to $246,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $185,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 due primarily to an increase in internal and external professional audit fees related to management's required year-end 2016 attestation regarding internal controls over financial reporting (Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act). Other expenses decreased by $331,000 to $713,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended September30, 2015 due primarily to decreases of $88,000 in expenses incurred for the collection and recovery of non-performing assets, $63,000 in telephone and communications expense due to the termination of certain services, and $24,000 in insurance premiums. 38 Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2015 Salaries and employee benefits, which represent the largest portion of non-interest expenses, increased by $101,000, or 0.8%, to $13.1 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to $13.0 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015 . The increase in salaries and employee benefits was the result of an increase in the number of full-time equivalent employees, which was partially offset by lower commissions in the amount of $156,000 paid to residential loan officers as a result of the lower volume of residential mortgage loans originated in the first nine months of 2016. Occupancy expense decreased by $175,000, or 5.6%, to $2.9 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to $3.1 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015 .The decrease in occupancy expense resulted primarily from decreases in building maintenance expense and depreciation expense. The cost of data processing services decreased slightly to $941,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2016 from $951,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2015 . FDIC insurance expense decreased to $328,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $530,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily as a result of a lower assessment rate, which reflected the lower level of net charge-offs, the lower level of non-performing assets and the improved financial performance of the Bank in the last two years. Other real estate owned expenses decreased by $555,000 to $76,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $631,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to the $382,000 writedown of one OREO property in the second quarter of 2015 and the reduction in OREO assets. At September30, 2016 , there was one commercial property with a carrying value of $166,000 as OREO compared to three properties with an aggregate carrying value of $4.9 million at September30, 2015 . Regulatory, professional and other fees increased by $123,000, or 23.1%, to $656,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $533,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to increases in consulting and internal and external professional audit fees related to management's required year-end 2016 attestation regarding internal controls over financial reporting. Other expenses decreased $440,000 to $2.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $2.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as a result of decreases in legal fees and expenses incurred for the collection and recovery of non-performing assets, telephone and communications expense, insurance expense and various other operating expenses.All other operating expenses are comprised of a variety of operating expenses as well as expenses associated with lending activities. 39 Income Taxes Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to three months ended September 30, 2015 Pre-tax income was $4.2 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 and $3.6 million for the three months ended September30, 2015 . The Company recorded income tax expense of $1.5 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $1.1 million for the three months ended September30, 2015 . The effective income tax rate was 35.1% for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to 31.8% for the three months ended September30, 2015 . The effective tax rate increased due primarily to higher pre-tax income and the lower total amount of tax-exempt interest income and income on Bank-owned life insurance as a percentage of pre-tax income in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2015 Pre-tax income increased $494,000 to $10.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to pre-tax income of $10.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The Company recorded income tax expense of $3.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , which resulted in an effective tax rate of 33.3%, compared to income tax expense of $3.3 million and an effective tax rate of 32.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The effective tax rate increased due primarily to higher pre-tax income and the lower total amount of tax-exempt interest income and income on Bank-owned life insurance as a percentage of pre-tax income for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Financial Condition September30, 2016 Compared with December31, 2015 Total consolidated assets at September30, 2016 were $1.06 billion, representing an increase of $87.3 million, or 9.0%, from total consolidated assets of $968.0 million at December31, 2015 .The increase in assets was primarily attributable to an increase of $67.4 million in net loans and a $9.7 million increase in investment securities, which were funded primarily by a $40.3 million increase in deposits, an increase of $38.2 million in borrowed funds and an increase of $8.0 million in shareholders' equity. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at September30, 2016 totaled $16.9 million compared to $11.4 million at December31, 2015 , an increase of $5.6 million, or 49.1%. To the extent that the Bank does not utilize funds for loan originations or securities purchases, the cash inflows are invested in overnight deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Loans Held for Sale Loans held for sale at September30, 2016 were $10.4 million compared to $6.0 million at December31, 2015 .The amount of loans held for sale varies from period to period due to changes in the amount and timing of sales of residential mortgages. 40 Investment Securities Investment securities represented approximately 21.3% of total assets at September30, 2016 and approximately 22.2% of total assets at December31, 2015 . Total investment securities increased $9.7 million, or 4.5%, to $224.4 million at September30, 2016 from $214.7 million at December31, 2015 . Purchases of investment securities totaled $44.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , and proceeds from calls, maturities and repayments totaled $35.5 million during the period. Securities available for sale are investments that may be sold in response to changing market and interest rate conditions or for other business purposes.Activity in this portfolio is undertaken primarily to manage liquidity and interest rate risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create economically attractive returns.At September30, 2016 , securities available for sale totaled $103.1 million, an increase of $11.7 million, or 12.8%, compared to securities available for sale totaling $91.4 million at December31, 2015 . At September30, 2016 , the securities available for sale portfolio had net unrealized gains of $1.3 million compared to net unrealized gains of $203,000 at December31, 2015 .These unrealized gains were reflected, net of tax, in shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Securities held to maturity, which are carried at amortized historical cost, are investments for which there is the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity.At September30, 2016 , securities held to maturity were $121.2 million, a decrease of $2.0 million from $123.3 million at December31, 2015 .The fair value of the held to maturity portfolio at September30, 2016 was $125.8 million. Loans The loan portfolio, which represents the Bank's largest asset, is a significant source of both interest and fee income. Elements of the loan portfolio are subject to differing levels of credit and interest rate risk. The Bank's primary lending focus continues to be financing mortgage warehouse lines, construction loans, commercial business loans, owner-occupied commercial mortgage loans and commercial real estate loans on income producing assets. The following table represents the components of the loan portfolio at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : Total loans increased by $67.3 million, or 9.9%, to $749.4 million at September30, 2016 compared to $682.1 million at December 31, 2015. Mortgage warehouse lines' outstanding balances increased $37.6 million to $254.2 million at September30, 2016 compared to $216.6 million at December31, 2015 , reflecting higher levels of residential mortgage originations by the Bank's mortgage banking customers that were due to the seasonality of home purchase activity in our markets. The Bank's mortgage warehouse funding group provides revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to finance the origination of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association.On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market.Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment. 41 The Bank funded $1.1 billion of residential mortgages through customers' warehouse lines of credit in the third quarter of 2016 and the third quarter of 2015. Commercial business loans decreased $1.1 million, or 1.1%, to $98.1 million during the first nine months of 2016. Commercial business loans consist primarily of loans to small and middle market businesses and are typically working capital loans used to finance inventory, receivables or equipment needs. These loans are generally secured by business assets of the commercial borrower. Commercial real estate loans increased $25.6 million, or 12.3%, to $232.8 million during the first nine months of 2016. Commercial real estate loans consistprimarily of loans to businesses collateralized by real estate employed in the business and loans to finance income producing properties. Construction loans increased $94,000 to $93.8 million during the first nine months of 2016. Construction financing is provided to businesses to expand their facilities and operations and to real estate developers for the acquisition, development and construction of residential properties and income producing properties. First mortgage construction loans are made to developers and builders for single family homes or multi-family buildings that are presold, or are to be sold or leased on a speculative basis. The Bank lends to developers and builders with established relationships, successful operating histories and sound financial resources. The Bank also finances the construction of individual, owner-occupied single family homes. These loans are made to qualified individual borrowers and are generally supported by a take-out commitment from a permanent lender. The ability of the Company to enter into larger loan relationships and management's philosophy of relationship banking are key factors in the Company's strategy for loan growth.The ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and recovery of the carrying amount of real estate are subject to changes in the economic environment and real estate market in the Company's market region. 42 Non-Performing Assets Non-performing assets consist of non-performing loans and other real estate owned. Non-performing loans are composed of (1) loans on a non-accrual basis and (2) loans which are contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest and principal payments but which have not been classified as non-accrual. Included in non-accrual loans are loans whose terms have been restructured to provide a reduction or deferral of interest and/or principal because of deterioration in the financial position of the borrower and which have not performed in accordance with the restructured terms. The Bank's policy with regard to non-accrual loans is that, generally, loans are placed on a non-accrual status when they are 90 days past due, unless these loans are well secured and in process of collection or, regardless of the past due status of the loan, when management determines that the complete recovery of principal or interest is in doubt.Consumer loans are generally charged off after they become 120 days past due.Subsequent payments on loans in non-accrual status are credited to income only if collection of principal is not in doubt. Non-accrual loans decreased $782,000 to $5.2 million at September30, 2016 from $6.0 million at December31, 2015 .During the third quarter of 2016, $748,000 of non-performing loans were resolved and $829,000 of loans were placed on non-accrual.The major segments of non-accrual loans consist of commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans, which are in the process of collection.The table below sets forth non-performing assets and risk elements in the Bank's portfolio for the periods indicated. Non-performing loans to total loans decreased to 0.70% at September30, 2016 from 0.88% at December31, 2015 principally due to the improvement in loan credit quality and a decrease in non-performing loans.Loan quality is considered to be sound. This was accomplished through quality loan underwriting, a proactive approach to loan monitoring and aggressive workout strategies. Non-performing assets decreased by $1.6 million to $5.4 million at September30, 2016 from $7.0 million at December31, 2015 .Other real estate owned totaled $166,000 at September30, 2016 compared to $966,000 at December31, 2015 .OREO at September30, 2016 was comprised of one commercial real estate property with a carrying value of $166,000. At September30, 2016 , the Bank had ten loans totaling $4.7 million which were troubled debt restructurings.Four of these loans totaling $3.5 million are included in the above table as non-accrual loans and the remaining six loans totaling $1.2 million are considered performing. At December31, 2015 , the Bank had ten loans totaling $4.7 million that were troubled debt restructurings. Three of these loans totaling $3.2 million are included in the above table as non-accrual loans and the remaining loans totaling $1.5 million are considered performing. As provided by ASC 310-30, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the initial investment in the loan is recognized as interest income over the life of the loan. Accordingly, loans acquired with evidence of deteriorated credit quality totaling $449,000 at September30, 2016 and $759,000 at December31, 2015 were not classified as non-performing loans. Non-performing assets represented 0.51% of total assets at September30, 2016 compared to 0.72% of total assets at December31, 2015 . 43 Management takes a proactive approach in addressing delinquent loans. The Company's President and Chief Executive Officer meets weekly with all loan officers to review the status of credits past-due 10 days or more. An action plan is discussed for delinquent loans to determine the steps necessary to induce the borrower to cure the delinquency and restore the loan to a current status. In addition, delinquency notices are system-generated when loans are five days past-due and again at 15 days past-due. In most cases, the Company's collateral is real estate. If the collateral is foreclosed upon, the real estate is carried at fair market value less the estimated selling costs. The amount, if any, by which the recorded amount of the loan exceeds the fair market value of the collateral, less estimated selling costs, is a loss which is charged to the allowance for loan losses at the time of foreclosure or repossession. Resolution of a past-due loan through foreclosure can be delayed if the borrower files a bankruptcy petition because a collection action cannot be continued unless the Company first obtains relief from the automatic stay provided by the bankruptcy code. During the three months ended September 30, 2016 , there was no activity related to other real estate owned assets. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , changes in other real estate owned consisted primarily of the sale of one residential property with a fair value of $1.0 million. 44 Allowance for Loan Losses and Related Provision The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level sufficient to absorb estimated credit losses in the loan portfolio as of the date of the financial statements.The allowance for loan losses is a valuation reserve available for losses incurred or inherent in the loan portfolio and other extensions of credit.The determination of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is a critical accounting policy of the Company. The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans and mortgage warehouse lines of credit.Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values.Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. All, or part, of the principal balance of commercial and commercial real estate loans and construction loans are charged off against the allowance as soon as it is determined that the repayment of all, or part, of the principal balance is highly unlikely.Consumer loans are generally charged off no later than 120 days past due on a contractual basis, earlier in the event of bankruptcy, or if there is an amount deemed uncollectible . Because all identified losses are charged off, no portion of the allowance for loan losses is restricted to any individual loan or groups of loans and the entire allowance is available to absorb any and all loan losses. Management reviews the adequacy of the allowance on at least a quarterly basis to ensure that the provision for loan losses has been charged against earnings in an amount necessary to maintain the allowance at a level that is adequate based on management's assessment of probable estimated losses. The Company's methodology for assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses consists of several key elements and is consistent with U.S. GAAP and interagency supervisory guidance.The allowance for loan losses methodology consists of two major components.The first component is an estimation of losses associated with individually identified impaired loans, which follows Accounting Standards Codification ASC Topic 310.The second major component is an estimation of losses under ASC Topic 450, which provides guidance for estimating losses on groups of loans with similar risk characteristics.The Company's methodology results in an allowance for loan losses that includes a specific reserve for impaired loans, an allocated reserve and an unallocated portion. When analyzing groups of loans under ASC Topic 450, the Bank follows the Interagency Policy Statement on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses.The methodology considers the Company's historical loss experience adjusted for changes in trends, conditions, and other relevant factors that affect repayment of the loans as of the evaluation date.These adjustment factors, known as qualitative factors, include: Delinquencies and non-accruals Portfolio quality Concentration of credit Trends in volume of loans Quality of collateral Policy and procedures Experience, ability, and depth of management Economic trends national and local External factors competition, legal and regulatory The methodology includes the segregation of the loan portfolio into loan types with a further segregation into risk rating categories, such as special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss. This allows for an allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan type; however, the allowance is available to absorb any loan loss without restriction.Larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans representing significant individual credit exposures are evaluated individually through the internal loan review process.It is this process that produces the watch list.The borrower's overall financial condition, repayment sources, guarantors and value of collateral, if appropriate, are evaluated. Based on these reviews, an estimate of probable losses for the individual larger-balance loans is determined, whenever possible, and used to establish specific loan loss reserves.In general, for non-homogeneous loans not individually assessed and for homogeneous groups of loans, such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type, and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The watch list includes loans that are assigned a rating of special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss.Loans classified as special mention have potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention.If uncorrected, the potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects.Loans classified as substandard have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt.They include loans that are inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any.Loans classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in loans classified as substandard with the added characteristic that collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of current conditions and facts, is highly improbable.Loans rated as doubtful in whole, or in part, are placed in non-accrual status.Loans classified as a loss are considered uncollectible and are charged-off against the allowance for loan losses. 45 The specific allowance for impaired loans is established for specific loans which have been identified by management as being impaired. These loans are considered to be impaired primarily because the loans have not performed according to payment terms and there is reason to believe that repayment of the loan principal in whole, or in part, is unlikely. The specific portion of the allowance is the total amount of potential unconfirmed losses for these individual impaired loans. To assist in determining the fair value of loan collateral, the Company often utilizes independent third party qualified appraisal firms, which employ their own criteria and assumptions that may include occupancy rates, rental rates, and property expenses, among others. The second category of reserves consists of the allocated portion of the allowance.The allocated portion of the allowance is determined by taking pools of outstanding loans that have similar characteristics and applying historical loss experience for each pool.This estimate represents the potential unconfirmed losses within the portfolio. Individual loan pools are created for commercial and commercial real estate loans, construction loans, warehouse lines of credit, and various types of loans to individuals.The historical estimation for each loan pool is then adjusted to account for current conditions, current loan portfolio performance, loan policy or management changes, or any other qualitative factor which may cause future losses to deviate from historical levels. The Company also maintains an unallocated allowance.The unallocated allowance is used to cover any factors or conditions which may cause a potential loan loss but are not specifically identifiable.It is prudent to maintain an unallocated portion of the allowance because no matter how detailed an analysis of potential loan losses is performed, these estimates, by definition, lack precision.Management must make estimates using assumptions and information that is often subjective and changing rapidly. The following discusses the risk characteristics of each of our loan portfolio segments-commercial, mortgage warehouse lines of credit, and consumer. Commercial The Company's primary lending emphasis is the origination of commercial and commercial real estate loans. Based on the composition of the loan portfolio, the inherent primary risks are deteriorating credit quality, a decline in the economy, and a decline in New Jersey real estate market values. Any one, or a combination, of these events may adversely affect the loan portfolio and may result in increased delinquencies, loan losses and increased future provision levels. Mortgage Warehouse Lines of Credit The Company's Mortgage Warehouse Unit provides revolving lines of credit that are available to licensed mortgage banking companies. The warehouse line of credit is used by the mortgage banker to originate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that are pre-sold to the secondary mortgage market, which includes state and national banks, national mortgage banking firms, insurance companies and government-sponsored enterprises, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and others. On average, an advance under the warehouse line of credit remains outstanding for a period of less than 30 days, with repayment coming directly from the sale of the loan into the secondary mortgage market. Interest and a transaction fee are collected by the Bank at the time of repayment. As a separate segment of the total portfolio, the warehouse loan portfolio is individually analyzed as a whole for allowance for loan loss purposes.Warehouse lines of credit are subject to the same inherent risks as other commercial lending, but the overall degree of risk differs. While the Company's loss experience with this type of lending has been non-existent since the product was introduced in 2008, there are other risks unique to this lending that still must be considered in assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. These unique risks may include, but are not limited to, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from the Bank, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of such mortgage bankers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under a warehouse line of credit, due to changes in interest rates during the time in warehouse, or (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans so originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker. These factors, along with the other qualitative factors such as economic trends, concentrations of credit, trends in the volume of loans, portfolio quality, delinquencies and non-accruals, are also considered and may have positive or negative effects on the allocated allowance.The aggregate amount resulting from the application of these qualitative factors determines the overall risk for the portfolio and results in an allocated allowance for warehouse lines of credit. Consumer The Company's consumer loan segment is comprised of residential real estate loans, home equity loans and other loans to individuals. Individual loan pools are created for the various types of loans to individuals. 46 In general, for homogeneous groups such as residential mortgages and consumer credits, the loans are collectively evaluated based on delinquency status, loan type and historical losses. These loan groups are then internally risk rated. The Company considers the following credit quality indicators in assessing the risk in the loan portfolio: Consumer credit scores Internal credit risk grades Loan-to-value ratios Collateral Collection experience The following table presents, for the periods indicated, an analysis of the allowance for loan losses and other related data: 47 The following table represents the allocation of the allowance for loan losses ("ALL") among the various categories of loans and certain other information as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively.The allocation is made for analytical purposes and is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which future losses may occur. The total allowance is available to absorb losses from any segment of loans. The Company did not record a provision for loan losses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to a $100,000 provision for loan losses for the three months ended September 30, 2015. A provision for loan losses was not required, in general, for the third quarter of 2016 due to lower historical loss factors for commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans resulting from the resolution and reduction of non-performing loans and the improvement in loan credit quality over the last three years. Net recoveries on loans that were previously charged-off were $4,000 and $226,000 for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2016, respectively, compared to net charge-offs of $319,000 and $393,000 for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2015, respectively. In the first and second quarters of 2016, there were significant favorable impacts (reduction or release of the allocated allowance) on the amount of the allowance for loan losses allocated to commercial business loans in each quarter due to the significant reduction of net charge-offs in the respective two year historical loss calculation period. The effect of the lower historical loss factors and the corresponding reduction of the allocated loan loss reserve for commercial business loans of $392,000 in the first quarter and $284,000 in the second quarter contributed to the credit provision for loan losses of $200,000 and $100,000 in those respective periods. In the third quarter of 2016, the amount of the allowance for loan losses allocated to commercial business loans increased due primarily to the decline in credit quality of a $4.0 million commercial business loan to one borrower that was fully performing, but rated "special mention." The increase in the allocation of this allowance for loan losses for commercial business loans was substantially offset by the reduction of the allocation of loan loss reserve for commercial real estate loans. In the second and third quarters of 2016, there were also significant favorable impacts on the amount of the allowance for loan losses allocated to commercial real estate loans in each quarter due to the significant decline in net charge-offs in the respective two year historical loss calculation period. In the second quarter of 2016, the reduction in the allowance for loan losses allocated to commercial real estate loans and the $378,000 recovery of loans previously charged-off also contributed to the credit provision for loan losses in that quarter. In the third quarter of 2016, the allowance for loan losses allocated to construction loans increased by $190,000 due primarily to adjustments in risk factors by management to reflect changes in the nature and risk elements of the current construction loan portfolio. At September30, 2016 , the allowance for loan losses was $7.5 million, a $74,000 decrease from the allowance for loan losses at December31, 2015 . As a percentage of total loans, the allowance was 1.00% at the end of the third quarter of 2016 compared to 1.11% at year-end 2015. The allowance for loan losses was 143% of non-accrual loans at September30, 2016 compared to 126% of non-accrual loans at December31, 2015 . Management believes that the quality of the loan portfolio remains sound considering the economic climate in the State of New Jersey and that the allowance for loan losses is adequate in relation to credit risk exposure levels and the estimated incurred and inherent losses in the loan portfolio. 48 Deposits Deposits, which include demand deposits (interest bearing and non-interest bearing), savings deposits and time deposits, are a fundamental and cost-effective source of funding.The flow of deposits is influenced significantly by general economic conditions, changes in market interest rates and competition.The Bank offers a variety of products designed to attract and retain customers, with the Bank's primary focus on the building and expanding of long-term relationships. The following table summarizes deposits at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . At September30, 2016 , total deposits were $827.1 million, an increase of $40.3 million, or 5.1%, from $786.8 million at December31, 2015 .Overall, the increase in deposits was due primarily to an increase of $14.0 million in non-interest bearing demand deposits, an increase of $15.1 million in savings deposits and an increase of $11.0 million in interest-bearing demand deposits. 49 Borrowings Borrowings are mainly comprised of Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") borrowings and overnight funds purchased.These borrowings are primarily used to fund asset growth not supported by deposit generation.The balance of borrowings was $97.1 million at September30, 2016 , consisting of $77.0 million of overnight borrowings from the FHLB and $20.1 million of long-term FHLB borrowings, compared to $58.9 million at December31, 2015 , which consisted of $38.6 million of overnight borrowings from the FHLB and $20.3 million of long-term FHLB borrowings. Liquidity At September30, 2016 , the amount of liquid assets and the Bank's access to off-balance sheet liquidity remained at a level management deemed adequate to ensure that contractual liabilities, depositors' withdrawal requirements, and other operational and customer credit needs could be satisfied. Liquidity management refers to the Company's ability to support asset growth while satisfying the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of customers.In addition to maintaining liquid assets, factors such as capital position, profitability, asset quality and availability of funding affect a bank's ability to meet its liquidity needs.On the asset side, liquid funds are maintained in the form of cash and cash equivalents, federal funds sold, investment securities held to maturity maturing within one year, securities available for sale and loans held for sale.Additional asset-based liquidity is derived from scheduled loan repayments as well as investment repayments of principal and interest. Investment securities and loans may also be pledged to the FHLB to collateralize additional borrowings.On the liability side, the primary source of liquidity is the ability to generate core deposits.Long-term and short-term borrowings are used as supplemental funding sources when growth in the core deposit base does not keep pace with that of earnings assets. The Bank has established a borrowing relationship with the FHLB which further supports and enhances liquidity. During 2010, the FHLB replaced its Overnight Line of Credit and One-Month Overnight Repricing Line of Credit facilities available to member banks with a fully secured line of up to 50 percent of a bank's quarter-end total assets.Under the terms of this facility, the Bank's total credit exposure to the FHLB cannot exceed 50 percent of its total assets, or $527.7 million, at September30, 2016 .In addition, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Bank's advances, letters of credit, the dollar amount of the FHLB's minimum collateral requirement for off-balance sheet financial contracts and advance commitments cannot exceed 30 percent of the Bank's total assets, unless the Bank obtains approval from the FHLB's Board of Directors or its Executive Committee.These limits are further restricted by a member's ability to provide eligible collateral to support its obligations to the FHLB as well as the ability to meet the FHLB's stock requirement.At September30, 2016 , the Bank pledged collateral to the FHLB to support additional borrowing capacity of $106.8 million.The Bank also maintains unsecured federal funds lines of $46.0 million with two correspondent banks. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows present the changes in cash from operating, investing and financing activities.At September30, 2016 , the balance of cash and cash equivalents was $16.9 million. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $4.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $12.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 .A source of funds is net income from operations adjusted for activity related to loans originated for sale and sold, the provision for loan losses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and net amortization of premiums and discounts on securities.Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was lower than net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to a lower amount of net proceeds from the origination and sale of loans of approximately $8.2 million. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $77.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $28.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 .The primary use of cash in investing activities for the first nine months of 2016 was the net increase in loans of $67.3 million compared to a net increase in loans of $56.5 million for the first nine months of 2015. The securities portfolios are also a source of liquidity, providing cash flows from maturities and periodic repayments of principal.For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and September30, 2015 , prepayments and maturities of investment securities totaled $35.5 million and $43.9 million, respectively.Cash was used to purchase investment securities of $44.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to purchases of $14.6 million of investment securities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Net cash provided by financing activities was $78.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $16.1 million of net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 .The primary source of funds for the 2016 period wasthe increase in deposits of $40.3 million and an increase in borrowed funds of $38.2 million. The primary source of funds in the 2015 period was the increase in borrowed funds of $40.1 million, which was partially offset by a decrease in deposits of $23.9 million. 50 Shareholders' Equity and Dividends Shareholders' equity increased by $8.0 million, or 8.3%, to $103.9 million at September30, 2016 from $96.0 million at December31, 2015 .Tangible book value per common share increased by $0.96 to $11.39 at September30, 2016 from $10.43 at December31, 2015 . The ratio of average shareholders' equity to total average assets was 10.05% at September30, 2016 compared to 9.34% at December31, 2015 . Shareholders' equity increased $8.0 million due to an increase of $6.8 million in retained earnings, an increase of $631,000 in accumulated other comprehensive income, and $549,000 from the exercise of options and share based compensation, which were partially offset by $24,000 in treasury stock purchases for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . In the past, in lieu of cash dividends to common shareholders, the Company (and its predecessor, the Bank) paid common stock dividends every year since 1993 (except 2014 due to the acquisition of Rumson).On December 18, 2015, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a five percent common stock dividend to common shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 14, 2016, which was paid on February 1, 2016.Per share amounts for the prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the common stock dividend. On September 15, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.05 per common share. The cash dividend was paid on October 21, 2016 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 28, 2016. This action represented the first cash dividend declared by the Company on its common shares. The timing and the amount of the payment of future cash dividends, if any, on the Company's common shares will be at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will be determined after consideration of various factors, including the level of earnings, cash requirements, regulatory capital and financial condition. The Company's common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "FCCY." On January 21, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized a new common stock repurchase program. Under the new common stock repurchase program, the Company may repurchase in open market or privately negotiated transactions up to five (5%) percent of its common stock outstanding on the date of approval of the stock repurchase program, which limitation will be adjusted for any future stock dividends. This new repurchase program replaces the repurchase program authorized on August 3, 2005. Disclosure of repurchases of Company shares made during the quarter ended September30, 2016 is set forth under Part II, Item 2 of this report, "Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds." Actual capital amounts and ratios for the Company and the Bank as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were as follows: 51 In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implemented and addressed the revised standards of Basel III and addressed relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.The Federal Reserve Board's final rules and the FDIC's interim final rules (which became final in April 2014 with no substantive changes) apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more, and top-tier savings and loan holding companies ("banking organizations"). Among other things, the rules established a common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets) and increased the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets requirement (from 4% to 6% of risk-weighted assets). Banking organizations are also required to have a total capital ratio of at least 8% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 4%. The rules also limit a banking organization's ability to pay dividends, engage in share repurchases or pay discretionary bonuses if the banking organization does not hold a "capital conservation buffer" consisting of 2.50% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements.The capital conservation buffer requirements began phasing in on January 1, 2016 at 0.625% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and will increase by that amount each year until fully implemented in January 2019 at 2.50% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. At September 30, 2016, the Company's and the Bank's common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 9.90% and 11.59%, respectively, exceeded the combined common equity Tier 1 minimum capital and capital conservation buffer of 5.125%. At September30, 2016 , the capital ratios of the Company exceeded the minimum Basel III capital requirements.It is management's goal to monitor and maintain adequate capital levels to continue to support asset growth and the expansion of the Bank and to continue its status as a well-capitalized institution. 52 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The largest component of the Company's total income is net interest income, and the majority of the Company's financial instruments are composed of interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities with various terms and maturities. The primary objective of management is to maximize net interest income while minimizing interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is derived from timing differences and the magnitude of relative changes in the repricing of assets and liabilities, loan prepayments, deposit withdrawals, and differences in lending and funding rates. Management actively seeks to monitor and control the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Under the interest rate risk policy established by the Company's Board of Directors, the Company established quantitative guidelines with respect to interest rate risk and how interest rate shocks are projected to affect net interest income and economic value of equity. Due to the current low level of market interest rates, the current monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board and recent communications from the Federal Reserve Board, management believes that is is more likely that market interest rates may increase than decrease over the intermediate term. Summarized below is the projected effect of a parallel shift of an increase of 200 and 300 basis points, respectively, in market interest rates on net interest income and economic value of equity. Based upon the current interest rate environment, as of September30, 2016 , sensitivity to interest rate risk was as follows: (1) Assumes an instantaneous and parallel shift in interest rates at all maturities. (2) EVE is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. The Company employs many assumptions to calculate the impact of changes in interest rates on assets and liabilities, and actual results may not be similar to projections due to several factors, including the timing and frequency of rate changes, market conditions and the shape of the yield curve. Actual results may also differ due to management's actions, if any, in response to changing rates. In calculating these exposures, the Company utilized an interest rate simulation model which is validated by third-party reviewers on an annual basis.