Item1. Financial Statements. Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Achaogen, Inc. March 31, 2016 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Organization and Basis of Presentation and Consolidation Achaogen, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiary, the "Company") is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterial drugs to treat multi-drug resistant gram-negative infections. The Company is developing plazomicin, its lead product candidate, for the treatment of serious bacterial infections due to multi-drug resistant Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). The Company's Phase 3 study of plazomicin in the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ("cUTI") and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. In addition, the Company is completing a Phase 3 study of plazomicin, entitled CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae), which is a resistant pathogen-specific trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with certain infections due to CRE. The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 2002 and commenced operations in 2004. Since commencing operations in 2004, the Company has devoted substantially all of its resources to identifying and developing its product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these operations. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP can be condensed or omitted. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the Company's annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, which are necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial information. The results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year or any other future period. The balance sheet as of December31, 2015 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December31, 2015 included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. On April 7, 2015, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3, declared effective by the SEC on April 21, 2015, covering the offering of up to $150.0 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, purchase contracts and/or units. This Registration Statement included a prospectus covering the offering, issuance and sale of up to $30.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time in an "at-the-market" ("ATM") equity offering pursuant to a sales agreement with Cowen and Company, LLC. As of March 31, 2016, the Company had sold 197,838 shares pursuant to its ATM equity offering program at a weighted-average price of $7.05 per share for aggregate offering proceeds of $1.4 million and aggregate net proceeds of $1.3 million , after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. In March 2014, the Company completed its initial public offering ("IPO") of shares of its common stock, pursuant to which the Company issued 6,900,000 shares of common stock, which includes 900,000 shares issued pursuant to the over-allotment option granted to its underwriters, and received net proceeds of approximately $73.9 million , after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. In connection with the completion of the Company's IPO, all shares of convertible preferred stock converted into 10,386,894 shares of common stock and all of the Company's convertible preferred stock warrants were converted into warrants to purchase common stock. The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations every year since its inception. As of March 31, 2016, the Company had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $49.5 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $188.2 million . Management expects to continue to incur additional substantial losses for the foreseeable future as a result of the Company's research and development activities, and the amounts of unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held at March 31, 2016 are not sufficient to fund projected levels of expenditures during 2016 without securing additional funding sources. Management is currently evaluating different options for the raising of additional funds through equity or debt financing arrangements, government contracts and/or third party collaboration funding, however, there can be no assurance that such funding sources will be available at terms acceptable to the Company or at all. If the Company is unable to raise additional funding to meet its working capital needs, it will be forced to delay or reduce the scope of its research programs and/or limit or cease its operations. The lack of financial resources to fund projected negative cash flows and the resultant need to raise substantial additional funding in the near term in order to sustain operations raise substantial doubt as to the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not reflect any adjustments relating to the recoverability and reclassification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to clinical trial accruals, fair value of liabilities, common stock and stock-based awards and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities. Short-term investments consist of available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. Based upon the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for loans with similar terms, the Company believes the carrying amounts of the loan payable and the derivative liability also represent fair values. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents include only securities having a maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents consisted of bank deposits, cash, and investments in money market funds. Short-term Investments Short-term investments consist of debt securities with maturities greater than three months, but less than one year from the date of acquisition, and are classified as available for sale. Short-term investments are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of net unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities in the Company's consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. The amortized cost of debt securities reflects amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of purchase discounts to date, which is included in interest income. The Company reviews all of its marketable securities on a regular basis to evaluate whether any security has experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. Restricted Cash At March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company had long-term restricted cash of $127,000 . The restricted cash, which consists of a money market account with one of the Company's financial institutions, serves as collateral for a letter of credit provided as a security deposit under the Company's facility lease. The facility lease expires on April14, 2017 . Segment Reporting Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise about which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision maker in making decisions regarding resource allocation and assessing performance. The Company has one operating segment. Customer Concentration For the three-months periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company's revenue has been generated solely from funding pursuant to U.S. government contracts, and accordingly all contracts receivable relate to funding from U.S. government contracts. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a significant concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited in checking and money market accounts at one financial institution with balances that generally exceed federally insured limits. Management believes that the financial institution is financially sound, and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to this financial institution. Our investment policy limits investments to certain types of debt securities issued by the U.S. government, its agencies and institutions with investment-grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents or issuing the debt securities. As of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company has not experienced any credit losses in such accounts or investments. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when: (i)evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)fees are fixed or determinable, (iii)services have been delivered, and (iv)collectability is reasonably assured. The Company currently generates revenue entirely from government contracts. Government contracts are agreements that provide the Company with payments for certain types of expenditures in return for research and development activities over a contractually defined period. Revenue from government contracts is recognized in the period during which the related costs are incurred and the related services are rendered, provided that the applicable conditions under the government contracts have been met. Costs of contract revenue are recorded as a component of operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statement of operations. Funds received from third parties under contract arrangements are recorded as revenue if the Company is deemed to be the principal participant in the contract arrangements because the activities under the contracts are part of the Company's development programs. If the Company is not the principal participant, the funds from contracts are recorded as a reduction to research and development expense. Contract funds received are not refundable and are recognized when the related qualified research and development costs are incurred and when there is reasonable assurance that the funds will be received. Funds billed and received in advance are recorded as deferred revenue. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses include certain payroll and personnel expenses; laboratory supplies; consulting costs; external contract research and development expenses; and allocated overhead, including rent, equipment depreciation and utilities, and relate to both Company-sponsored programs as well as costs incurred pursuant to collaboration agreements and government contracts. The Company estimates preclinical study and clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and clinical research organizations that conduct and manage preclinical studies and clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company estimates the time period over which services will be performed and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and other current assets and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition . This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The ASU also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. The ASU's effective date is for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Adoption of the ASU is either retrospective to each prior period presented or retrospective with a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings or accumulated deficit as of the adoption date. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (Topic 205-40), Going Concern . This ASU introduces an explicit requirement for management to assess if there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern, and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. In connection with each annual and interim period, management must assess if there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the issuance date. Disclosures are required if conditions give rise to substantial doubt. ASU 2014-15 is effective for all entities in the first annual period ending after December15, 2016. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . This guidance simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes in a classified balance sheet to require that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent and is effective for annual reporting periods, including interim reporting periods, beginning after December 15, 2016, and is applicable to the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not anticipate it will have a material impact to its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, which, for operating leases, requires a lessee to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in its balance sheet. The standard also requires a lessee to recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term, on a generally straight-line basis. This ASU will be effective for the Company in fiscal year 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-06, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) - Contingent Put and Call Options in Debt Instruments. This ASU clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to their debt hosts. An entity performing the assessment under the amendments in this Update is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision sequence. This guidance should be applied on a modified retrospective basis to existing debt instruments as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the amendments are effective, and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718) - Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This ASU simplifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. This ASU will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during the period. For purposes of this calculation, preferred stock, stock options, restricted stock units and warrants are considered to be common stock equivalents and are only included in the calculation of diluted net loss per share when their effect is dilutive. Because the Company has reported a net loss in all periods presented, diluted net loss per common share is the same as basic net loss per common share for those periods. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, all potentially dilutive securities outstanding have been excluded from the computations of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding because such securities have an antidilutive impact due to losses reported. Below are listed the potentially dilutive securities outstanding as of March 31, 2016 and 2015: Warrants outstanding as of March 31, 2016 have an exercise price of $11.99 . 3. Fair Value Measurements Financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value. The carrying amount of certain financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair values. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or an exit price that would be paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements as follows: Level 1 : Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 : Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires management to make judgments and consider factors specific to the asset or liability. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities are classified as Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. The Company's Level 2 valuations of marketable securities are generally derived from independent pricing services based upon quoted prices in active markets for similar securities, with prices adjusted for yield and number of days to maturity, or based on industry models using data inputs, such as interest rates and prices that can be directly observed or corroborated in active markets. In certain cases, where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3 within the valuation hierarchy. Level 3 liabilities that are measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis consist of a derivative liability in connection with loan payable. As of March 31, 2016 and December31 2015, financial assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis and classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as described above were as follows (in thousands): All available-for-sale securities held as of March 31, 2016 had maturities greater than three months, but less than one year from the date of acquisition. There were no sales of available-for-sale securities in any of the periods presented. The carrying value of corporate debt obligations that were in unrealized loss positions totaled $10.2 million as of March 31, 2016. The Company has determined that (i)it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments, and (ii)it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such corporate debt obligations and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three-month period ended March 31, 2016. Pursuant to the loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. (see Note 7), the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement under which the Company agreed to pay $1.0 million in cash (the "Success Fee")if the Company obtains approval to market plazomicin from the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"). If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee, approximately $375,000 at December 31, 2015, is recorded as a derivative liability and included in other long-term liabilities on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability as of March 31, 2016 increased by $12,000 to $387,000 from December 31, 2015, which amount is recorded as other income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The fair value of the derivative liability was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, and is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs. Specifically, the key assumptions included in the calculation of the estimated fair value of the derivative instrument include: i) the Company's estimates of both the probability and timing of a potential $1.0 million payment to Solar Capital Ltd. upon FDA approval to market plazomicin, and ii) a discount rate of 13% which was derived from the Company's estimated cost of debt. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability is most sensitive to the probability of FDA approval. Should the probability of FDA approval change by 5% , the fair value of the derivative liability as of March 31, 2016 would change by approximately $30,000 . Any changes in the estimated fair value will result in an entry to other income, net. Changes in the fair value of recurring measurements included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy were as follows for the three months ended March 31, 2016 (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Accrued Liabilities Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): Other Long-term Liabilities Other long-term liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. License and Collaboration Agreements Ionis Pharmaceuticals In January 2006, the Company entered into a license agreement with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Ionis"). Ionis granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide license with the right to grant and authorize sublicenses related to the research and development of aminoglycoside products. As an up-front fee, the Company issued 97,402 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock at a fair value of $15.40 per share. This license fee of $1,500,000 was recorded as research and development expense in 2006. In further consideration of this license, and in accordance with the terms of the agreement, the Company is required to make milestone payments with respect to development, regulatory and commercialization milestones, and to pay a percentage of revenue received from sublicensees (if any). All such milestone and sublicense revenue payments may total, in the aggregate, up to but no more than $19,500,000 for the first product and $9,750,000 following the second product commercialized under the agreement with Ionis. The Company is also required to pay additional milestone payments of up to $20,000,000 in the aggregate upon the first achievement of specified threshold levels of annual net sales of all aminoglycoside products in a calendar year. The license agreement also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit percentage of annual worldwide net sales of all licensed products, including plazomicin. Through March 31, 2016, the Company has compensated Ionis $7,000,000 in connection with the first three milestones under the license for the first aminoglycoside product candidate. As of March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company had no outstanding payments due under the agreement. 6. Government Contracts Certain of the Company's drug discovery and development activities are performed under contracts with U.S. government agencies. Management has determined that the Company is the principal participant in the following contract arrangements, and, accordingly, the Company records amounts earned under the arrangements as revenue. Costs incurred under revenue contracts are recorded as operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statements of operations. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority In August 2010, the Company was awarded a contract with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA") for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. The original contract included committed funding of $27,600,000 for the first two years of the contract and subsequent options exercisable by BARDA to provide additional funding. In September 2012, BARDA modified the contract to increase the total contract committed funding to $43,398,000 through March 2014. In April 2013, the Company was awarded an additional $60,410,000 under the contract to support its Phase 3 clinical trial of plazomicin to increase the total committed funding under this contract to $103,808,000 . The Company recorded contract revenue of $5,270,000 and $4,841,000 under this agreement during the three -month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Defense Threat Reduction Agency In November 2012, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency ("DTRA"), a division of the U.S. Department of Defense, terminated for convenience a contract with the Company to develop novel antibacterials for the treatment of biodefense pathogens. In connection with the termination, the Company sought payment from DTRA for additional expenses the Company had incurred. Effective April 30, 2015, the Company reached a settlement of its claim with DTRA. The net settlement of $7,122,000 was recorded as contract revenue during the three months ended June 30, 2015. Together with sums previously received, it constitutes complete and final settlement of the contract. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID") for $1.5 million committed through June 30, 2016, with total funding of up to $4.5 million available if all options are exercised under the contract. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added to the awarded funding and the total potential funding was increased to $5.0 million . In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise an option which increased the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018, with total potential funding remaining at $5.0 million if the remaining option is exercised. In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one -year, $407,000 grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. In July 2015, NIAID extended the grant term through July 31, 2016. The Company recorded contract revenue of $579,000 and $39,000 under these agreements during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 7. Borrowings Solar Capital Ltd. Loan Agreement On August 5, 2015, the Company entered into a loan and security agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Solar Capital Ltd. (the "Lender") pursuant to which the Lender agreed to make available to the Company term loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million with a maturity date of August 5, 2019, subject to certain conditions to funding. An initial $15.0 million term loan was funded at closing on August 5, 2015, and funding of an additional $10.0 million term loan is contingent upon the Company receiving at least $25.0 million in net proceeds from the sale of its common stock by no later than August 15, 2016. Borrowings under the term loans bear interest per annum at 6.99% plus the greater of 1% or the one-month LIBOR. The Company is currently required to make interest-only payments through February 2017 and, beginning on March 1, 2017, the Company is required to make monthly payments of interest plus equal monthly payments of principal over a term of 30 months. If the Company receives $35.0 million in net proceeds from the sale or issuance of stock, convertible subordinated notes, collaboration agreements, grants or research or development contracts and achieves 50% enrollment in its Phase 3 cUTI trial (the "Funding/Development Conditions"), in each case prior to March 1, 2017, the Company will be permitted to make interest-only payments through August 2017, rather than February 2017 and, beginning on September 1, 2017 the Company would be required to make monthly payments of interest plus equal monthly payments of principal over a term of 24 months. The Loan Agreement requires collateral by a security interest in all of the Company's assets except intellectual property (which is subject to a negative pledge) and contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, and also includes standard events of default, including payment defaults. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, a default interest rate of an additional 4% may be applied to the outstanding loan balances, and the Lender may declare all outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and take such other actions as set forth in the Loan Agreement. There were no financial covenants attached to the loan. The Loan Agreement included a closing fee of $250,000 which was paid at closing, and the Company is obligated to pay a fee equal to 8% of the term loans funded upon the earliest to occur of the maturity date, the acceleration of the term loans or the voluntary prepayment of the term loans. The cost of these fees is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. The Company may voluntarily prepay all, but not less than all, of the outstanding term loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains customary events of default that entitle the Lender to cause the Company's indebtedness under the Loan Agreement to become immediately due and payable. On August 5, 2015, pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement with the Lender under which the Company agreed to pay the Lender $1.0 million if the Company obtains FDA approval to market plazomicin. If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee at the date of issuance of approximately $356,000 was recorded as a debt discount and is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. If the Funding/Development Conditions are not achieved prior to March 1, 2017, future principal debt payments on the currently outstanding term loan are payable as follows (in thousands): The obligation includes a final fee of $1,200,000 , representing 8% of the term loan currently funded, which accretes over the life of the loan as interest expense. The Company recorded interest expense related to the loan of $438,000 for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016. 8. Stockholders' Equity On April 7, 2015, the Company entered into a Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which the Company may issue and sell shares of its common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. In September 2015, the Company sold 197,838 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement, at a weighted-average price of approximately $7.05 per share for gross proceeds of $1.4 million and net proceeds of $1.3 million after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. As of March 31, 2016, $28.6 million of common stock remained available to be sold under the Sales Agreement, subject to certain conditions specified therein. Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (the "2014 Plan"), which became effective as of March 11, 2014. Under the 2014 Plan, the Company may grant incentive stock options ("ISOs"), nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and other stock-based awards for the purchase of that number of shares of common stock. Effective, January 1, 2016, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 735,808 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the 2014 Plan. As of March 31, 2016, 803,978 shares were available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan. Under the 2014 Plan, the terms of stock award agreements, including vesting requirements, are determined by the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the 2014 Plan. Options granted by the Company typically vest over a four year period and the exercise price may not be less than fair market value on the date of grant. Certain of the options are subject to acceleration of vesting in the event of certain change of control transactions. Options granted under the 2014 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan In December 2014, the Company adopted a 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan (the "Inducement Plan"). The Inducement Plan is designed to comply with the inducement exemption contained in Nasdaq's Rule 5635(c)(4), which provides for the grant of non-qualified stock options, RSUs, restricted stock awards, performance awards, dividend equivalents, deferred stock awards, deferred stock units, stock payment and stock appreciation rights to a person not previously an employee or director of the Company, or following a bona fide period of non-employment, as an inducement material to the individual's entering into employment with the Company. As of March 31, 2016, a total of 1,150,000 shares of common stock have been authorized under the Inducement Plan, including the additional 500,000 shares that became available resulting from an amendment adopted by the board of directors as of March 17, 2016. As of March 31, 2016, 782,675 shares were available for future issuance under the Inducement Plan. 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which became effective as of March11, 2014. Effective, January 1, 2016, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 183,952 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the ESPP. As of March 31, 2016, 79,537 shares of common stock have been issued to employees participating in the ESPP, and 428,940 shares are available for issuance under the ESPP. Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan The Company's Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan (the "2003 Plan"), provided for the granting of incentive and non-statutory stock options to employees, directors and consultants at the discretion of the board of directors. The Company granted options under its 2003 Plan until January 2014 and it was terminated as to future awards in March 2014, although it continues to govern the terms of options that remain outstanding under the 2003 Plan. Options granted under the 2003 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. Options granted under the 2003 Plan vest over periods determined by the board of directors, generally over four years . The 2003 Plan allows for early exercise of certain options prior to vesting. Upon termination of employment, the unvested shares are subject to repurchase at the original exercise price. Stock options granted or modified after March21, 2002, that are subsequently exercised for cash prior to vesting, are not deemed to be issued until those shares vest. As of March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015 there were no shares subject to repurchase relating to the early exercise of options. In connection with the board of directors and stockholders approval of the 2014 Plan, all remaining shares available for future awards under the 2003 Plan were transferred to the 2014 Plan, and the 2003 Plan was terminated as to future awards. As of March 31, 2016, a total of 966,898 shares of common stock are subject to options outstanding under the 2003 plan, which shares will become available under the 2014 Plan to the extent the options are forfeited or lapse unexercised. The following table summarizes stock option activity under the stock plans and related information: Stock-based compensation expense recognized for stock options granted to employees and non-employee directors in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations was as follows (in thousands): As of March 31, 2016, approximately $6,316,000 of total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.00 years. The estimated grant date fair value of employee stock options with time-based vesting terms was calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, based on the following assumptions: Restricted Stock Units Granted to Employees During the three-month period ended March 31, 2016, the Company granted RSUs to employees to receive 163,900 shares of common stock under the Company's stock plans with a weighted-average estimated grant-date fair value of $3.65 per share. RSUs generally vest annually over a 4 -year service period and vesting is contingent on continued service. As of March 31, 2016, there were unrecognized compensation costs of $3,019,000 related to outstanding RSUs, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.60 years. A summary of RSU activity is as follows: During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company granted options to purchase an aggregate of 199,750 shares of common stock and 47,425 RSUs that vest upon the achievement of market-based common stock price targets. The fair values of these options and RSUs were estimated at the grant date using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. The Monte-Carlo simulation model requires the use of a range of assumptions. The risk-free interest rate was 1.76% , expected volatility rate was 70% and the dividend rate was 0% . The expected life assumption is not used in Monte-Carlo simulation model, but the output of the model indicated an expected time to vest of 3.0 to 6.0 years. The associated stock-based compensation expense is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the implicit service period (expected time to vest) derived from that simulation model. The Company did not issue any performance based options to purchase common stock, or RSUs during the three months ended March 31, 2015. 9. Commitments In July 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with its pharmaceutical contract manufacturing organization that obligates it to make a total of $1.5 million of nonrefundable advance payments for the reservation of facilities and resources, plus procurement of long lead raw materials, to produce plazomicin for regulatory commercial validation. Such advance payments are initially capitalized asprepaid and other current assets and are being recognized as research and development expenses as goods are delivered and services are performed. The Company assesses such prepaid and other current assets for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or may not provide future economic benefits.As of March 31, 2016, the Company had recorded $1.4 million as prepaid and other current assets related to this agreement. Through March 31, 2016, the Company has recognized $125,000 as research and development expenses.The final payment of $500,000 is recorded in accounts payable as of March 31, 2016. Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and ourAnnual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "should," "estimate," or "continue," and similar expressions or variations. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in Part II Other Information, Item1A. Risk Factors below and elsewhere in this report, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or anticipated results. The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q represent our views as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should, therefore, not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterials to treat multi-drug resistant ("MDR") gram-negative infections. We are developing plazomicin, our lead product candidate, for the treatment of serious bacterial infections due to MDR Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). In 2013, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention identified CRE as "nightmare bacteria" and an immediate public health threat that requires "urgent and aggressive action." Our development plan for plazomicin includes two Phase 3 clinical trials. The first study, a Phase 3 trial of plazomicin for the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ("cUTI") and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. The Phase 3 EPIC trial is a randomized, double blind, active controlled study in patients with cUTI and AP and allows broad enrollment of patients with gram-negative infections. We have reached agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") that this non-inferiority trial comparing plazomicin to meropenem with a 15% non-inferiority margin and a corresponding sample size of approximately 530 patients, is acceptable. The first patient was enrolled in the Phase 3 EPIC trial in January 2016. We expect top-line results for our Phase 3 EPIC trial in the first quarter of 2017 and expect to submit an NDA for plazomicin in the second half of 2017, with a planned commercial launch of plazomicin in the U.S. in 2018, if our NDA is approved. The Phase 3 EPIC trial is designed to enroll a broad range of patients with cUTI or AP, including patients with infections due to MDR gram-negative pathogens. If successful, this study will provide clinical evidence of non-inferiority to meropenem, a carbapenem antibiotic considered to be a last line of defense in patients with serious infections due to Enterobacteriaceae, including fluoroquinolone resistant and extended spectrum beta-lactamase ("ESBL") producing isolates. We believe that favorable efficacy data from this trial will provide the basis for FDA approval and will permit plazomicin to be used as a treatment for MDR gram-negative pathogens, including CRE and ESBL-producing pathogens. This study will also provide important safety data regarding plazomicin in patients with various co-morbidities, including those with varying degrees of renal function. The second ongoing study, our Phase 3 CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae) trial is a resistant pathogen-specific trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with infections due to CRE. We believe our Phase 3 CARE trial will provide important data about plazomicin's potential in treating patients with CRE infections, where there are limited treatment options currently available. The Phase 3 CARE trial is funded in part with a contract from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA"), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. We expect top-line data results from our Phase 3 CARE study in the first half of 2017 and we expect to enroll up to 100 patients in the Phase 3 CARE study. We plan to submit the Phase 3 CARE study results as supportive data with the plazomicin NDA based on our Phase 3 EPIC trial and to submit the results to a peer-reviewed journal and for presentation at a medical meeting in 2017. Based on physician market research, we believe the Phase 3 CARE study will provide important and meaningful data regarding the efficacy, safety, microbiology, and dosing, as well as important health economic data, to better inform use of plazomicin in the treatment of patients with CRE infections. In 2012, the FDA granted fast track designation for the development and regulatory review of plazomicin to treat serious and life-threatening CRE infections. In 2014, plazomicin received Qualified Infectious Disease Product ("QIDP") designation from the FDA. The QIDP designation was created by the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now ("GAIN") Act, which was part of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act and provides certain incentives for the development of new antibiotics, including priority review and an additional five years of market exclusivity. Our plazomicin program is funded in part with a contract from BARDA for up to $103.8 million. We have global commercialization rights to plazomicin, which has patent protection in the United States extending through 2031. Plazomicin is the first clinical candidate from our gram-negative antibiotic discovery engine, and we have other programs in early and late preclinical stages focused on other MDR gram-negative infections. Since commencing operations in 2004, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and developing our product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these functions. In addition to plazomicin, our research team is focused on discovering medicines with novel mechanisms of action for serious infections caused by gram-negative bacteria, including MDR Pseudomonas aeruginosa and MDR Acinetobacter baumannii. We are taking a multifaceted approach to identify new antibacterial agents through our research. Our goal is to file an investigational new drug application ("IND") from our research programs in 2017. Since our inception, we have financed our operations with the proceeds of our initial public offering ("IPO") of common stock, proceeds from sales of our common stock through our at-the-market ("ATM") equity offering program, funding under our contracts with government agencies, private placements of our equity securities and certain debt-related financing arrangements. Currently, our plazomicin program is funded in part with a contract from BARDA. We estimate that our Phase 3 EPIC trial will necessitate additional Achaogen funding of $45 to $50 million from 2015 through 2017, which we anticipate will be primarily accessed via sources such as government contracts and grants as well as issuances of debt and equity. Approximately $15 million of this funding has been provided by a term loan from Solar Capital Ltd. and an additional $10 million term loan may be available from Solar Capital, subject to certain funding conditions. Our other programs are currently funded primarily with company funds, although we also received a relatively small grant in 2014 from the U.S. National Institutes of Health (the "NIH") for $0.4 million and another contract for $4.4 million in 2015 from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID"), with additional funding of up to $0.6 million available from NIAID if all options are exercised. Historically, our preclinical programs have received funding support from organizations in addition to the NIH and NIAID, such as the U.S. Department of Defense and The Wellcome Trust, a global charitable foundation. We intend to continue to seek further collaborations with government agencies, non-profit foundations, and other research and development funding organizations to support our discovery efforts and advance the product candidates in our pipeline. On March17, 2014, we completed our IPO of common stock. We sold 6,900,000 shares of our common stock, which included 900,000 shares issued as a result of the underwriters exercising their over-allotment option in full. We received cash proceeds of approximately $73.9 million from the IPO, net of underwriting commissions and related expenses. On April 7, 2015, we entered into the Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity offering program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of March 31, 2016, we had sold 197,838 shares under the Sales Agreement at an average price of $7.05 per share and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $1.3 million, after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. On August 5, 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd., pursuant to which Solar Capital Ltd. agreed to make available to us term loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million subject to certain conditions to funding, $15.0 million of which was provided to us on August 5, 2015. We have never been profitable and have incurred net losses in each year since the commencement of our operations. Substantially all of our net losses have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and associated general and administrative costs. We expect to incur substantial losses from operations in the foreseeable future as we advance plazomicin and other product candidates through preclinical and clinical development, seek regulatory approval, and prepare for, and, if approved, proceed to commercialization. In particular, in January 2016 we enrolled our first patient in our pivotal Phase 3 EPIC trial which we estimate will necessitate additional Achaogen funding of $45 to $50 million from 2015 through 2017, which we anticipate will be primarily accessed via sources such as government contracts and grants as well as issuances of debt and equity. Approximately $15 million of this funding has been provided by the term loan from Solar Capital and an additional $10 million term loan may be available from Solar Capital, subject to certain funding conditions. Management believes that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, combined with the committed funds from the BARDA contract, are estimated to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements to fund our current planned operations at least through the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2016. We will be required to obtain further funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaboration and licensing arrangements or other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 1 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and to our consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 for additional information describing the circumstances that lead to the inclusion of this explanatory paragraph. Financial overview Contract Revenue We have derived all of our revenue to date from funding provided under U.S. government contracts in connection with the development of our product candidates. Our product candidates are still in clinical and preclinical development and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Other than this contract revenue from government funding, we do not expect to derive any revenue from any product candidates that we develop until we obtain regulatory approval and commercialize such products, which we do not expect will occur before 2018, if at all, or until such time that we potentially enter into collaboration agreements with third parties for the development and commercialization of such product candidates. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) . We have received funding for our lead product candidate, plazomicin, under a contract with BARDA, an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. Our BARDA contract provides for payments to us based on direct costs incurred and allowances for overhead, plus a fee, where applicable. The total committed funding under our BARDA contract is $103.8 million. The contract also currently includes an option for additional work that has not yet been exercised by BARDA. The unexercised option relates to the conduct of an open-label safety trial, certain nonclinical studies to support an NDA and certain nonclinical biodefense studies. Potential funding under the unexercised option has not yet been determined, and we anticipate that BARDA will evaluate award of this option during their fiscal year beginning October 1, 2015. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, total revenue recognized under the BARDA contract was $5.3 million and $4.8 million , respectively. Through March 31, 2016, a total of $82.3 million under the BARDA contract has been recorded as revenue, with $21.5 million remaining available from the funding currently committed under the contract. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one-year, $407,000 grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. The contract was subsequently modified to extend through July 31, 2016. In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by NIAID for $1.5 million committed through June 30, 2016, with total funding of up to $4.5 million available if all options are exercised under the contract. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added to the awarded funding and the total potential funding was increased to $5.0 million. In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise an option which increased the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018, with total potential funding remaining at $5.0 million if the remaining option is exercised. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, total revenue recognized under the NIAID contracts was $579,000 and $39,000 , respectively. Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) . In November 2012, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency ("DTRA"), a division of the U.S. Department of Defense, terminated for convenience a contract with us to develop novel antibacterials for the treatment of biodefense pathogens. In connection with the termination, we sought payment for additional expenses we had incurred. Effective April 30, 2015, we reached a settlement of our claim with DTRA. The net settlement of $7.1 million , together with sums previously received, constitutes complete and final settlement of the contract. Research and Development Expenses Research and development ("R&D") expenses consist primarily of costs associated with research, discovery and preclinical studies of potential new drug compounds, plus product development efforts related to clinical trials and materials manufacturing processes. R&D costs are expensed as incurred and include the following: expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations, investigative sites, and consultants that conduct our clinical trials and a substantial portion of our preclinical activities; employee and consultant-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and consulting fees; third-party supplier expenses including the cost of acquiring and manufacturing clinical trial and other materials; and facilities, depreciation and other allocated expenses, which include direct and allocated expenses for rent and maintenance of facilities, amortization or depreciation of leasehold improvements, equipment and laboratory supplies and other expenses. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for the foreseeable future related to our R&D activities as we continue research programs and the development of our product candidates. In particular, we expect our research and development costs associated with our plazomicin program to increase significantly as our Phase 3 EPIC and CARE trials progress. Since product candidates in later stages of clinical development generally incur higher development costs than those in earlier stages of research and clinical development, primarily due to the increased size and duration of later-stage clinical trials, we expect that our R&D expenses will increase in the future. In particular, in January 2016 we enrolled our first patient in our pivotal Phase 3 EPIC trial which we estimate will necessitate additional Achaogen funding of $45 to $50 million from 2015 through 2017, which we anticipate will be primarily accessed via sources such as government contracts and grants as well as issuances of debt and equity. Approximately $15 million of this funding has been provided by a term loan from Solar Capital and an additional $10 million term loan may be available from Solar Capital, subject to certain funding conditions. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist principally of personnel-related costs, professional fees for legal, consulting, audit and tax services, rent and other general operating expenses not otherwise included in R&D. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in future periods, reflecting an expanding infrastructure. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our critical accounting policies and estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2016, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies. Our critical accounting policies are described under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three-Month Periods Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Contract Revenue Contract revenue in each period related solely to funding pursuant to our government contracts. Contract revenue increased $0.9 million to $5.8 million in the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 from $4.9 million in the comparable period in 2015. This increase was primarily due to an increase in research and development services performed under our NIAID contract. Research and Development Expenses R&D expenses increased $6.0 million to $13.9 million in the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 from $7.9 million in the comparable period in 2015. This was primarily due to increases of $4.3 million in the external expenses related to our plazomicin program, mainly attributable to the Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin, $1.5 million in personnel and overhead related costs as net headcount increased by 19 employees in our research and development organization since 2015 and $0.2 million in consulting and nonclinical costs for research programs other than plazomicin. We record R&D expenses by program where directly identifiable. In the table below, we have allocated indirect R&D costs based on time charged directly to programs by R&D employees. Indirect R&D costs include employee benefit expenses, employee time not charged directly to a program, laboratory supplies and expenses, and allocated facility expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $0.6 million to $3.8 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 from $3.2 million for the comparable period in 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.4 million in personnel-related costs and an increase of $0.2 million in professional fees and facility related expenses. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $0.4 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 from zero for the comparable period in 2015. The increase was a result of $15.0 million of borrowings under the Solar Capital loan agreement in August 2015. Other Income, net Other income, net remained relatively flat for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 with the comparable period in 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net cash used in operating activities was $8.9 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 of $12.2 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $0.1 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.2 million for amortization of premium on short-term investments and $0.8 million for stock-based compensation and a change in net operating assets and liabilities of $2.1 million . The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities partially offset by a decrease prepaid expenses and other assets, as a result of costs related to preparing for our Phase 3 EPIC trial and the timing of our payments. Net cash used in operating activities was $2.6 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2015. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the three-months period ended March 31, 2015 of $6.2 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $0.1 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.2 million for amortization of premium on short-term investments and $0.8 million for stock-based compensation. The change in net operating assets of $2.5 million was due to the decrease in accounts receivable $0.8 million due to higher collection in the quarter and the increase in accounts payable and accrued liability of $1.8 million as a result of the timing of our payments. Net cash provided by investing activities was $8.0 million and $5.9 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net cash provided by investing activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 is primarily a result of maturities of short-term investments of $8.3 million . The net cash provided by investing activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 is a result of maturities in excess of purchases of short-term investments of $5.9 million. Other uses of net cash in both periods resulted from purchases of property, plant and equipment to facilitate our increased R&D activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was zero and $0.8 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net cash provided by financing activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 were from the proceeds received from stock options exercised. Plan of Operations and Future Funding Requirements We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for research, development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. Specifically, we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with our clinical development of plazomicin. Management believes that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, combined with the committed funds from the BARDA contract, are estimated to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements to fund our current planned operations at least through the beginning of the fourth quarter of the 2016 fiscal year. On August 5, 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd., pursuant to which Solar Capital Ltd. agreed to make available to us term loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million subject to certain conditions to funding, $15.0 million of which was provided to us on August 5, 2015. On April 7, 2015, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-203282), declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on April 21, 2015 (the "Shelf Registration Statement"), covering the offering of up to $150 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, purchase contracts and units. The Shelf Registration Statement included a prospectus covering the offering, issuance and sale of up to $30.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time in "at the market" offerings pursuant to a Common Stock Sales Agreement entered into with Cowen and Company, LLC (the "Sales Agreement") on April 7, 2015. In September 2015, we sold 197,838 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement, at a weighted-average price of approximately $7.05 per share for gross proceeds of $1.4 million and net proceeds of $1.3 million, after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. As of March 31, 2016, approximately $148.6 million in securities remained unissued under the Shelf Registration Statement, including up to $28.6 million of common stock available to be sold under the Sales Agreement, subject to certain conditions specified therein. We do not expect that our current capital resources will be sufficient to enable us to seek marketing approval for plazomicin or commercially launch plazomicin. Additionally, we estimate that our Phase 3 EPIC trial will necessitate additional Achaogen funding of $45 to $50 million from 2015 through 2017. Approximately $15 million of this funding has been provided by the term loan from Solar Capital Ltd. in August 2015, and an additional $10 million term loan may be available from Solar Capital, subject to certain funding conditions. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial additional financing in the future to fund our operations, including for obtaining marketing approval for plazomicin. We may obtain additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, a credit facility, government contracts and/or strategic collaborations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain debt financing may be limited by covenants we have made under our loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. and our pledge to Solar Capital Ltd. of substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, as collateral. The negative pledge in favor of Solar Capital Ltd. with respect to our intellectual property under the loan and security agreement could further limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. In addition to the initial $15.0 million term loan provided by Solar Capital Ltd. in August 2015, if we receive at least $25.0 million in net proceeds from the sale of our common stock, we may request an additional term loan in an aggregate principal amount of up to $10 million no later than August 15, 2016, subject to certain customary conditions to funding. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed could have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategies. The amount and timing of our future financing requirements will depend on many factors, including: continued funding under our contract with BARDA, including whether BARDA exercises an option to provide additional funding for plazomicin; the size, timing and type of the nonclinical and clinical trials that we decide to pursue in the development of our product candidates, including plazomicin; the type, number, costs and results of the product candidate development programs which we are pursuing or may choose to pursue in the future; the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities; the timing of, and costs involved in, seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; our ability to enter into additional collaboration, licensing or other arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements; the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; the resources we devote to marketing, and, if approved, commercializing our product candidates; the scope, progress, expansion, and costs of manufacturing our product candidates; our ability to enter into additional government contracts, or other collaborative agreements, to support the development of our product candidates and development efforts; and the costs associated with being a public company. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.Item1. Financial Statements. Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 3 of 68 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 4 of 68 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 5 of 68 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 6 of 68 Achaogen, Inc. June 30, 2016 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Organization and Basis of Presentation and Consolidation Achaogen, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiary, the "Company") is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterial drugs to treat multi-drug resistant gram-negative infections. The Company is developing plazomicin, its lead product candidate, for the treatment of serious bacterial infections due to multi-drug resistant Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). The Company's Phase 3 study of plazomicin in the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ("cUTI") and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. In addition, the Company is completing a Phase 3 study of plazomicin, entitled CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae), which is a resistant pathogen-specific trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with certain infections due to CRE. The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 2002 and commenced operations in 2004. Since commencing operations in 2004, the Company has devoted substantially all of its resources to identifying and developing its product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these operations. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP can be condensed or omitted. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the Company's annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, which are necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial information. The results of operations for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year or any other future period. The balance sheet as of December31, 2015 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December31, 2015 included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. On June 3, 2016, the Company sold 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock pursuant to Securities Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million in connection with a private placement financing transaction (the "Private Placement"). The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 per share and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. On April 7, 2015, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3, declared effective by the SEC on April 21, 2015, covering the offering of up to $150.0 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, purchase contracts and/or units. This Registration Statement included a prospectus covering the offering, issuance and sale of up to $30.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time in an "at-the-market" ("ATM") equity offering pursuant to a sales agreement with Cowen and Company, LLC. As of June 30, 2016, the Company had sold 267,520 shares pursuant to its ATM equity offering program at a weighted-average price of $6.29 per share for aggregate offering proceeds of $1.7 million and aggregate net proceeds of $1.6 million , after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. In March 2014, the Company completed its initial public offering ("IPO") of shares of its common stock, pursuant to which the Company issued 6,900,000 shares of common stock, which includes 900,000 shares issued pursuant to the over-allotment option granted to its underwriters, and received net proceeds of approximately $73.9 million , after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. In connection with the completion of the Company's IPO, all shares of convertible preferred stock converted into 10,386,894 shares of common stock and all of the Company's convertible preferred stock warrants were converted into warrants to purchase common stock. Page 7 of 68 The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations every year since its inception. As of June 30, 2016, the Company had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $70.0 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $206.5 million . Management expects to continue to incur additional substantial losses for the foreseeable future as a result of the Company's research and development activities, and the amounts of unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held at June 30, 2016 are sufficient to fund our current planned operations at least through the beginning of the second quarter of 2017 without securing additional funding sources. Management is currently evaluating different options for the raising of additional funds through equity or debt financing arrangements, government contracts and/or third party collaboration funding, however, there can be no assurance that such funding sources will be available at terms acceptable to the Company or at all. If the Company is unable to raise additional funding to meet its working capital needs, it will be forced to delay or reduce the scope of its research programs and/or limit or cease its operations. The lack of financial resources to fund projected negative cash flows and the resultant need to raise substantial additional funding in the near term in order to sustain operations raise substantial doubt as to the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not reflect any adjustments relating to the recoverability and reclassification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to clinical trial accruals, fair value of liabilities, common stock and stock-based awards and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities. Short-term investments consist of available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. Based upon the borrowing rates (which is a Level 2 input) currently available to the Company for loans with similar terms, the Company believes the carrying amount of the loan payable approximates its fair value. The warrant and derivative liabilities are recorded at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value recorded in the Company's statements of operations. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents include only securities having a maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents consisted of bank deposits, cash, and investments in money market funds. Short-term Investments Short-term investments consist of debt securities with maturities greater than three months, but less than one year from the date of acquisition, and are classified as available for sale. Short-term investments are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of net unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities in the Company's consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. The amortized cost of debt securities reflects amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of purchase discounts to date, which is included in interest income. The Company reviews all of its marketable securities on a regular basis to evaluate whether any security has experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. Page 8 of 68 Restricted Cash At June 30, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company had restricted cash of $127,000 . The restricted cash, which consists of a money market account with one of the Company's financial institutions, serves as collateral for a letter of credit provided as a security deposit under the Company's facility lease. The facility lease expires on April14, 2017 . Warrant Liability On June 3, 2016, the Company issued 1,999,999 warrants to purchase shares of its common stock in connection with the Private Placement. Each warrant has an exercise price of $3.66 and is exercisable for five years from the date of issuance. The Company accounted for these warrants as a liability instrument measured at its fair value. The initial fair value of the warrants was determined using a calibration model that involved using the Black-Scholes Pricing Model ("Black-Scholes"), which requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of the Company's common stock and remaining term of the warrants. The warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date, using Black-Scholes, with any changes in the fair value of the outstanding warrants recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Segment Reporting Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise about which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision maker in making decisions regarding resource allocation and assessing performance. The Company has one operating segment. Customer Concentration For the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company's revenue has been generated solely from funding pursuant to U.S. government contracts, and accordingly all contracts receivable relate to funding from U.S. government contracts. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a significant concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited in checking and money market accounts at one financial institution with balances that generally exceed federally insured limits. Management believes that the financial institution is financially sound, and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to this financial institution. Our investment policy limits investments to certain types of debt securities issued by the U.S. government, its agencies and institutions with investment-grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents or issuing the debt securities. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company has not experienced any credit losses in such accounts or investments. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when: (i)evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)fees are fixed or determinable, (iii)services have been delivered, and (iv)collectability is reasonably assured. The Company currently generates revenue entirely from government contracts. Government contracts are agreements that provide the Company with payments for certain types of expenditures in return for research and development activities over a contractually defined period. Revenue from government contracts is recognized in the period during which the related costs are incurred and the related services are rendered, provided that the applicable conditions under the government contracts have been met. Costs of contract revenue are recorded as a component of operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statement of operations. Funds received from third parties under contract arrangements are recorded as revenue if the Company is deemed to be the principal participant in the contract arrangements because the activities under the contracts are part of the Company's development programs. If the Company is not the principal participant, the funds from contracts are recorded as a reduction to research and development expense. Contract funds received are not refundable and are recognized when the related qualified research and development costs are incurred and when there is reasonable assurance that the funds will be received. Funds billed and received in advance are recorded as deferred revenue. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses include certain payroll and personnel expenses; laboratory supplies; consulting costs; external contract research and development expenses; and Page 9 of 68 allocated overhead, including rent, equipment depreciation and utilities, and relate to both Company-sponsored programs as well as costs incurred pursuant to collaboration agreements and government contracts. The Company estimates preclinical study and clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and clinical research organizations that conduct and manage preclinical studies and clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company estimates the time period over which services will be performed and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and other current assets and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No.2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (Topic 205-40), Going Concern . This ASU introduces an explicit requirement for management to assess if there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern, and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. In connection with each annual and interim period, management must assess if there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the issuance date. Disclosures are required if conditions give rise to substantial doubt. ASU 2014-15 is effective for all entities in the first annual period ending after December15, 2016. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . This guidance simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes in a classified balance sheet to require that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent and is effective for annual reporting periods, including interim reporting periods, beginning after December 15, 2016, and is applicable to the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not anticipate it will have a material impact to its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, which, for operating leases, requires a lessee to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in its balance sheet. The standard also requires a lessee to recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term, on a generally straight-line basis. This ASU will be effective for the Company in fiscal year 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-06, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) - Contingent Put and Call Options in Debt Instruments. This ASU clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to their debt hosts. An entity performing the assessment under the amendments in this Update is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision sequence. This guidance should be applied on a modified retrospective basis to existing debt instruments as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the amendments are effective, and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718) - Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This ASU simplifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. This ASU will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which provides a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The ASU also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets Page 10 of 68 recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , Deferral of the Effective Date , which defers by one year the effective date of ASU No. 2014-09 to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim periods within those periods). Early adoption is permitted to the original effective date of December 15, 2016 (including interim periods within those periods). In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , which clarifies how to identify the unit of accounting for the principal versus agent evaluation and how to apply the control principle to certain types of arrangements. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which clarifies the implementation guidance on identifying performance obligations and licensing. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, which addresses certain issues on assessing collectability, presentation of sales taxes, noncash consideration, and completed contracts and contract modifications at transition. These ASUs will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, using one of two retrospective application methods. The Company has not selected a transition method and is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during the period. For purposes of this calculation, preferred stock, stock options, restricted stock units and warrants are considered to be common stock equivalents and are only included in the calculation of diluted net loss per share when their effect is dilutive. For the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, all potentially dilutive securities outstanding have been excluded from the computations of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding because such securities have an antidilutive impact due to losses reported. Below are listed the potentially dilutive securities outstanding as of June 30, 2016 and 2015: Warrants outstanding as of June 30, 2016 have a weighted-average exercise price of $3.78 . 3. Fair Value Measurements Financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value. The carrying amount of certain financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair values. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or an exit price that would be paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements as follows: Level 1 : Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 : Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires management to make judgments and consider factors specific to the asset or liability. Page 11 of 68 Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities are classified as Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. The Company's Level 2 valuations of marketable securities are generally derived from independent pricing services based upon quoted prices in active markets for similar securities, with prices adjusted for yield and number of days to maturity, or based on industry models using data inputs, such as interest rates and prices that can be directly observed or corroborated in active markets. In certain cases, where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3 within the valuation hierarchy. Level 3 liabilities that are measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis consist of a derivative liability in connection with loan payable and a warrant liability in connection with the Private Placement. As of June 30, 2016 and December31 2015, financial assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis and classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as described above were as follows (in thousands): Page 12 of 68 All available-for-sale securities held as of June 30, 2016 had maturities greater than three months, but less than one year from the date of acquisition. There were no sales of available-for-sale securities in any of the periods presented. The carrying value of corporate debt obligations that were in unrealized loss positions totaled $3.3 million as of June 30, 2016. The Company has determined that (i)it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments, and (ii)it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such corporate debt obligations and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016. Pursuant to the loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. (see Note 7), the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement under which the Company agreed to pay $1.0 million in cash (the "Success Fee")if the Company obtains approval to market plazomicin from the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"). If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee, approximately $375,000 at December 31, 2015, is recorded as a derivative liability and included in other long-term liabilities on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability as of June 30, 2016 increased by $25,000 to $400,000 from December 31, 2015, which amount is presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations for the six-months ended June 30, 2016. The fair value of the derivative liability was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, and is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs. Specifically, the key assumptions included in the calculation of the estimated fair value of the derivative instrument include: i) the Company's estimates of both the probability and timing of a potential $1.0 million payment to Solar Capital Ltd. upon FDA approval to market plazomicin, and ii) a discount rate of 13% which was derived from the Company's estimated cost of debt. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability is most sensitive to the probability of FDA approval. Should the probability of FDA approval change by 5% , the fair value of the derivative liability as of June 30, 2016 would change by approximately $31,000 . Any changes in the estimated fair values are presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Pursuant to the Private Placement (see Note 2), the Company issued warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.66 . The Company classified these warrants as a liability measured at fair value using Black-Scholes. Under certain entity conditions, the holder of a warrant may require the Company to settle the warrant in cash at its Page 13 of 68 estimated fair value using Black-Scholes. On the closing date of the Private Placement, June 3, 2016, the $2.6 million initial estimated fair value of the warrant liability was recorded as a warrant liability on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. At June 30, 2016, the estimated fair value of the warrants were approximately $3.9 million . This change in the estimated fair value is presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of the warrant liability is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs, including the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of the Company's common stock and remaining term of the warrants. The estimated fair values of the warrants were determined using Black-Scholes with the following assumptions, during the six-months ended June 30, 2016: The expected volatility is based on the Company's expected volatility. The expected term is based on the remaining life of the warrants. The risk-free interest rate is obtained from the yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities for a period equal to the expected term of the warrants. The dividend yield is zero because the Company has never paid cash dividends and has no present intention to pay cash dividends. Should the share price change by 5% , the fair value of the warrant liability as of June 30, 2016 would change by approximately $294,000 . Changes in the fair value of recurring measurements included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations and were as follows for the six-months ended June 30, 2016 (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Accrued Liabilities Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. License and Collaboration Agreements Crystal Biosciences, Inc. Page 14 of 68 In May 2016, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Crystal Biosciences, Inc. ("Crystal"). Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, the Company and Crystal agreed to collaborate on the discovery of monoclonal antibodies against multiple targets. Crystal agreed to conduct the initial discovery work with its antibody platform and the Company has the right to develop and commercialize the antibodies discovered through this collaboration. The Company is required to provide signing and milestone payments with respect to research, development, regulatory and commercialization milestones (if any). All such milestone payments may total, in aggregate, up to but no more than $20,550,000 . The upfront signing fee was fully recorded as research and development expense in the three-month period ended June 30, 2016. This collaboration and license agreement also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit percentage of annual worldwide net sales of the commercialized product. Ionis Pharmaceuticals In January 2006, the Company entered into a license agreement with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Ionis"). Ionis granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide license with the right to grant and authorize sublicenses related to the research and development of aminoglycoside products. As an up-front fee, the Company issued 97,402 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock at a fair value of $15.40 per share. This license fee of $1,500,000 was recorded as research and development expense in 2006. In further consideration of this license, and in accordance with the terms of the agreement, the Company is required to make milestone payments with respect to development, regulatory and commercialization milestones, and to pay a percentage of revenue received from sublicensees (if any). All such milestone and sublicense revenue payments may total, in the aggregate, up to but no more than $19,500,000 for the first product and $9,750,000 following the second product commercialized under the agreement with Ionis. The Company is also required to pay additional milestone payments of up to $20,000,000 in the aggregate upon the first achievement of specified threshold levels of annual net sales of all aminoglycoside products in a calendar year. The license agreement also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit percentage of annual worldwide net sales of all licensed products, including plazomicin. Through June 30, 2016, the Company has compensated Ionis $7,000,000 in connection with the first three milestones under the license for the first aminoglycoside product candidate. As of June 30, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company had no outstanding payments due under the agreement. 6. Government Contracts Certain of the Company's drug discovery and development activities are performed under contracts with U.S. government agencies. Management has determined that the Company is the principal participant in the following contract arrangements, and, accordingly, the Company records amounts earned under the arrangements as revenue. Costs incurred under revenue contracts are recorded as operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statements of operations. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority In August 2010, the Company was awarded a contract with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA") for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. The original contract included committed funding of $27,600,000 for the first two years of the contract and subsequent options exercisable by BARDA to provide additional funding. In September 2012, BARDA exercised an additional $15,798,000 contract option ("Option 1"), which increased the total contract committed funding to $43,398,000 through March 2014. In April 2013, the Company was awarded an additional $60,410,000 under the contract to support its Phase 3 clinical trial of plazomicin ("Option 2") to increase the total committed funding under this contract to $103,808,000 . On May 26, 2016, the Company was awarded an additional $20 million ("Option 3") under the contract to support its Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin. This brings the total committed funding under the contract to $123,808,000 . The Company recorded contract revenue of $8,510,000 and $4,876,000 under this agreement during the three-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $13,780,000 and $9,717,000 during the six-month periods ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Defense Threat Reduction Agency In November 2012, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency ("DTRA"), a division of the U.S. Department of Defense, terminated for convenience a contract with the Company to develop novel antibacterials for the treatment of biodefense pathogens. In connection with the termination, the Company sought payment from DTRA for additional expenses the Company had incurred. Effective April 30, 2015, the Company reached a settlement of its claim with DTRA. The net settlement of $7,122,000 was recorded as contract revenue during the three months ended June 30, 2015. Together with sums previously received, it constitutes complete and final settlement of the contract. Page 15 of 68 National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID") for $1.5 million committed through June 30, 2016, with total funding of up to $4.5 million available if all options are exercised under the contract. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added to the awarded funding and the total potential funding was increased to $5.0 million . In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise an option which increased the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018, with total potential funding remaining at $5.0 million if the remaining option is exercised. In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one -year, $407,000 grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. In July 2015, NIAID extended the grant term through July 31, 2016. The Company recorded contract revenue of $634,000 and $43,000 under these agreements during the three-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $1,213,000 and $82,000 the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 7. Borrowings Solar Capital Ltd. Loan Agreement On August 5, 2015, the Company entered into a loan and security agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Solar Capital Ltd. (the "Lender") pursuant to which the Lender agreed to make available to the Company term loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million with a maturity date of August 5, 2019. An initial $15.0 million term loan was funded at closing on August 5, 2015, and a second $10.0 million term loan was funded on June 20, 2016. Borrowings under the term loans bear interest per annum at 6.99% plus the greater of 1% or the one-month LIBOR. The Company is currently required to make interest-only payments on the term loans through August 2017, and beginning on September 1, 2017 the Company is required to make monthly payments of interest plus equal monthly payments of principal over a term of 24 months. The Loan Agreement requires collateral by a security interest in all of the Company's assets except intellectual property (which is subject to a negative pledge) and contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, and also includes standard events of default, including payment defaults. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, a default interest rate of an additional 4% may be applied to the outstanding loan balances, and the Lender may declare all outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and take such other actions as set forth in the Loan Agreement. There were no financial covenants attached to the loan. The Loan Agreement included a closing fee of $250,000 which was paid at closing, and the Company is obligated to pay a fee equal to 8% of the term loans funded upon the earliest to occur of the maturity date, the acceleration of the term loans or the voluntary prepayment of the term loans. The cost of these fees is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. The Company may voluntarily prepay all, but not less than all, of the outstanding term loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains customary events of default that entitle the Lender to cause the Company's indebtedness under the Loan Agreement to become immediately due and payable. On August 5, 2015, pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement with the Lender under which the Company agreed to pay the Lender $1.0 million if the Company obtains FDA approval to market plazomicin. If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee at the date of issuance of approximately $356,000 was recorded as a debt discount and is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. Page 16 of 68 Future principal debt payments on the currently outstanding term loan are payable as follows (in thousands): The obligation includes a final fee of $2,000,000 , representing 8% of the term loan currently funded, which accretes over the life of the loan as interest expense. The Company recorded interest expense related to the loan of $447,000 and zero for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $885,000 and zero for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 8. Stockholders' Equity On April 7, 2015, the Company entered into a Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which the Company may issue and sell shares of its common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of June 30, 2016, the Company sold 267,520 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement, at a weighted-average price of approximately $6.29 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $1.7 million and net proceeds of $1.6 million after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. As of June 30, 2016, $28.3 million of common stock remained available to be sold under the Sales Agreement, subject to certain conditions specified therein. On June 3, 2016, the Company sold 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreement for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million in the Private Placement. The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. The Company's Chief Operating Officer, a related party, participated in the Private Placement by purchasing 141,453 shares of common stock and a warrant to purchase 35,363 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $0.5 million . At the close of the Private Placement, the estimated fair values of the common stock and warrants issued were $22.9 million and $2.6 million , respectively. At June 30, 2016, using Black-Scholes, the Company estimated the fair value of the warrant liability to be $3.9 million and recorded a charge in the the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the increase in the liability. Issuance costs of $318,000 were offset against equity as a reduction of gross proceeds. Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (the "2014 Plan"), which became effective as of March 11, 2014. Under the 2014 Plan, the Company may grant incentive stock options ("ISOs"), nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and other stock-based awards for the purchase of that number of shares of common stock. Effective, January 1, 2016, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 735,808 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the 2014 Plan. As of June 30, 2016, 796,171 shares were available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan. Page 17 of 68 Under the 2014 Plan, the terms of stock award agreements, including vesting requirements, are determined by the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the 2014 Plan. Options granted by the Company typically vest over a four year period and the exercise price may not be less than fair market value on the date of grant. Certain of the options are subject to acceleration of vesting in the event of certain change of control transactions. Options granted under the 2014 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan In December 2014, the Company adopted a 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan (the "Inducement Plan"). The Inducement Plan is designed to comply with the inducement exemption contained in Nasdaq's Rule 5635(c)(4), which provides for the grant of non-qualified stock options, RSUs, restricted stock awards, performance awards, dividend equivalents, deferred stock awards, deferred stock units, stock payment and stock appreciation rights to a person not previously an employee or director of the Company, or following a bona fide period of non-employment, as an inducement material to the individual's entering into employment with the Company. As of June 30, 2016, a total of 1,150,000 shares of common stock have been authorized under the Inducement Plan, including the additional 500,000 shares that became available resulting from an amendment adopted by the board of directors as of March 17, 2016. As of June 30, 2016, 527,800 shares were available for future issuance under the Inducement Plan. 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which became effective as of March11, 2014. Effective, January 1, 2016, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 183,952 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the ESPP. As of June 30, 2016, 141,527 shares of common stock have been issued to employees participating in the ESPP, and 366,950 shares are available for issuance under the ESPP. Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan The Company's Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan (the "2003 Plan"), provided for the granting of incentive and non-statutory stock options to employees, directors and consultants at the discretion of the board of directors. The Company granted options under its 2003 Plan until January 2014 and it was terminated as to future awards in March 2014, although it continues to govern the terms of options that remain outstanding under the 2003 Plan. Options granted under the 2003 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. Options granted under the 2003 Plan vest over periods determined by the board of directors, generally over four years . The 2003 Plan allows for early exercise of certain options prior to vesting. Upon termination of employment, the unvested shares are subject to repurchase at the original exercise price. Stock options granted or modified after March21, 2002, that are subsequently exercised for cash prior to vesting, are not deemed to be issued until those shares vest. As of June 30, 2016 and December31, 2015 there were no shares subject to repurchase relating to the early exercise of options. In connection with the board of directors and stockholders approval of the 2014 Plan, all remaining shares available for future awards under the 2003 Plan were transferred to the 2014 Plan, and the 2003 Plan was terminated as to future awards. As of June 30, 2016, a total of 932,332 shares of common stock are subject to options outstanding under the 2003 plan, which shares will become available under the 2014 Plan to the extent the options are forfeited or lapse unexercised. Page 18 of 68 The following table summarizes stock option activity under the stock plans, excluding the ESPP, and related information: Stock-based compensation expense recognized for stock options granted to employees and non-employee directors in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations was as follows (in thousands): As of June 30, 2016, approximately $6,368,000 of total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.82 years. The estimated grant date fair value of employee stock options with time-based vesting terms was calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, based on the following assumptions: Restricted Stock Units Granted to Employees During the six-month period ended June 30, 2016, the Company granted RSUs to employees to receive 233,775 shares of common stock under the Company's stock plans with a weighted-average estimated grant-date fair value of $3.78 per share. RSUs generally vest annually over a 4 -year service period and vesting is contingent on continued service. As of June 30, 2016, there were unrecognized compensation costs of $3,019,000 related to outstanding RSUs, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.46 years. Page 19 of 68 A summary of RSU activity is as follows: During the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016, the Company granted options to purchase an aggregate of 11,500 and 211,250 shares of common stock and 2,750 and 50,175 RSUs that vest upon the achievement of market-based common stock price targets. The fair values of these options and RSUs were estimated at the grant date using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. The Monte-Carlo simulation model requires the use of a range of assumptions. The risk-free interest rate range was 1.67% to 1.76% , expected volatility rate was 70% and the dividend rate was 0% . The expected life assumption is not used in Monte-Carlo simulation model, but the output of the model indicated an expected time to vest of 2.5 to 6.0 years. The associated stock-based compensation expense is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the implicit service period (expected time to vest) derived from that simulation model. The Company did not issue any performance based options to purchase common stock, or RSUs during the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2015. 9. Commitments In July 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with its pharmaceutical contract manufacturing organization that obligates it to make a total of $1.5 million of nonrefundable advance payments for the reservation of facilities and resources, plus procurement of long-lead raw materials, to produce plazomicin for regulatory commercial validation. Such advance payments are initially capitalized asprepaid and other current assets and are being recognized as research and development expenses as goods are delivered and services are performed. The Company assesses such prepaid and other current assets for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or may not provide future economic benefits.As of June 30, 2016, the Company had recorded $1.0 million as prepaid and other current assets related to this agreement. Through June 30, 2016, the Company has recognized $500,000 as research and development expenses. Page 20 of 68 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and ourAnnual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "should," "estimate," or "continue," and similar expressions or variations. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in Part II Other Information, Item1A. Risk Factors below and elsewhere in this report, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or anticipated results. The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q represent our views as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should, therefore, not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterials to treat multi-drug resistant ("MDR") gram-negative infections. We are developing plazomicin, our lead product candidate, for the treatment of serious bacterial infections due to MDR Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). In 2013, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention identified CRE as "nightmare bacteria" and an immediate public health threat that requires "urgent and aggressive action." Our development plan for plazomicin includes two Phase 3 clinical trials. The first study, a Phase 3 trial of plazomicin for the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ("cUTI") and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. The Phase 3 EPIC trial is a randomized, double blind, active controlled study in patients with cUTI and AP and allows broad enrollment of patients with gram-negative infections. We have reached agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") that this non-inferiority trial comparing plazomicin to meropenem with a 15% non-inferiority margin and a corresponding sample size of approximately 530 patients, is acceptable. The first patient was enrolled in the Phase 3 EPIC trial in January 2016. We expect top-line results for our Phase 3 EPIC trial in the first quarter of 2017 and expect to submit an NDA for plazomicin in the second half of 2017, with a planned commercial launch of plazomicin in the U.S. in 2018, if our NDA is approved. The Phase 3 EPIC trial is designed to enroll a broad range of patients with cUTI or AP, including patients with infections due to MDR gram-negative pathogens. If successful, this study will provide clinical evidence of non-inferiority to meropenem, a carbapenem antibiotic considered to be a last line of defense in patients with serious infections due to Enterobacteriaceae, including fluoroquinolone resistant and extended spectrum beta-lactamase ("ESBL") producing isolates. We believe that favorable efficacy data from this trial will provide the basis for FDA approval and will permit plazomicin to be used as a treatment for MDR gram-negative pathogens, including CRE and ESBL-producing pathogens. This study will also provide important safety data regarding plazomicin in patients with various co-morbidities, including those with varying degrees of renal function. The second ongoing study, our Phase 3 CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae) trial is a resistant pathogen-specific trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with infections due to CRE. We believe our Phase 3 CARE trial will provide important data about plazomicin's potential in treating patients with CRE infections, where there are limited treatment options currently available. The Phase 3 CARE trial is funded in part with a contract from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA"), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. We expect to end enrollment in the CARE study in 2016 and announce top-line data results from our Phase 3 CARE study in the first half of 2017. We plan to submit the Phase 3 CARE study results as supportive data with the plazomicin NDA based on our Phase 3 EPIC trial and to submit the results to a peer-reviewed journal and for presentation at a medical meeting in 2017. Based on physician market research, we believe the Phase 3 CARE study will provide important and meaningful data regarding the efficacy, safety, microbiology, and dosing, as well as important health economic data, to better inform use of plazomicin in the treatment of patients with CRE infections. Page 21 of 68 In 2012, the FDA granted fast track designation for the development and regulatory review of plazomicin to treat serious and life-threatening CRE infections. In 2014, plazomicin received Qualified Infectious Disease Product ("QIDP") designation from the FDA. The QIDP designation was created by the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now ("GAIN") Act, which was part of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act and provides certain incentives for the development of new antibiotics, including priority review and an additional five years of market exclusivity. Our plazomicin program is funded in part with a contract from BARDA for up to $123.8 million . We have global commercialization rights to plazomicin, which has patent protection in the United States extending through 2031. Plazomicin is the first clinical candidate from our gram-negative antibiotic discovery engine, and we have other programs in early and late preclinical stages focused on other MDR gram-negative infections. Since commencing operations in 2004, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and developing our product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these functions. In addition to plazomicin, our research team is focused on discovering medicines with novel mechanisms of action for serious infections caused by gram-negative bacteria, including MDR Pseudomonas aeruginosa and MDR Acinetobacter baumannii. We are taking a multifaceted approach to identify new antibacterial agents through our research. In May 2016, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Crystal Biosciences, Inc. to identify and generate therapeutic antibodies against multiple novel targets. Our goal is to file an investigational new drug application ("IND") from our research programs in 2017. Since our inception, we have financed our operations with the proceeds of our initial public offering ("IPO") of common stock, proceeds from sales of our common stock through our at-the-market ("ATM") equity offering program, funding under our contracts with government agencies, private placements of our equity securities and certain debt-related financing arrangements. Currently, our plazomicin program is funded in part with a contract from BARDA. We estimate that our Phase 3 EPIC trial will necessitate funding of $45 to $50 million from 2015 through 2017 and approximately $25 million of this funding has been provided by the term loans from Solar Capital, and additional $20 million ("Option 3") under the BARDA contract. Our other programs are currently funded primarily with company funds, although we also received a contract for $4.4 million in 2015 from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID"), with additional funding of up to $0.6 million available if all options are exercised. Historically, our preclinical programs have received funding support from organizations in addition to the NIH and NIAID, such as the U.S. Department of Defense and The Wellcome Trust, a global charitable foundation. We intend to continue to seek further collaborations with government agencies, non-profit foundations, and other research and development funding organizations to support our discovery efforts and advance the product candidates in our pipeline. On March17, 2014, we completed our IPO of common stock. We sold 6,900,000 shares of our common stock, which included 900,000 shares issued as a result of the underwriters exercising their over-allotment option in full. We received cash proceeds of approximately $73.9 million from the IPO, net of underwriting commissions and related expenses. On April 7, 2015, we entered into the Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity offering program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of June 30, 2016, we had sold 267,520 shares under the Sales Agreement at an average price of $6.29 per share and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $1.6 million , after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. On August 5, 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd., pursuant to which Solar Capital Ltd. agreed to make available to us term loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million, $15.0 million of which was provided to us on August 5, 2015 and $10.0 million of which was provided to us on June 20, 2016. On May 26, 2016, BARDA exercised Option 3 and we were awarded an additional $20.0 million in contract funding. Option 3 also includes a no-cost extension of the period of performance for Option 1 to September 20, 2016, under the contract to support our Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin. The funding from Option 3 is focused on the Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial of plazomicin, the EPIC study, in cUTI. This brings the total committed funding under the contract to $123.8 million . On June 3, 2016, we sold 7,999,996 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of common stock pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement ("Purchase Agreement") for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million in a private placement financing transaction (the "Private Placement"). The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. We have never been profitable and have incurred net losses in each year since the commencement of our operations. Substantially all of our net losses have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and associated general and administrative costs. We expect to incur substantial losses from operations in the foreseeable future as we advance plazomicin and other product candidates through preclinical and clinical development, seek regulatory approval, and prepare for, and, if approved, proceed to commercialization. Management believes that, based on its current operating Page 22 of 68 plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, combined with the committed funds from the BARDA contract, are estimated to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements to fund our current planned operations at least through the beginning of the second quarter of 2017. Still, we will be required to obtain further funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaboration and licensing arrangements or other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 1 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and to our consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 for additional information describing the circumstances that lead to the inclusion of this explanatory paragraph. Financial Overview Contract Revenue We have derived all of our revenue to date from funding provided under U.S. government contracts in connection with the development of our product candidates. Our product candidates are still in clinical and preclinical development and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Other than this contract revenue from government funding, we do not expect to derive any revenue from any product candidates that we develop until we obtain regulatory approval and commercialize such products, which we do not expect will occur before 2018, if at all, or until such time that we potentially enter into collaboration agreements with third parties for the development and commercialization of such product candidates. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) . We have received funding for our lead product candidate, plazomicin, under a contract with BARDA, an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. Our BARDA contract provides for payments to us based on direct costs incurred and allowances for overhead, plus a fee, where applicable. The total committed funding under our BARDA contract is $123.8 million , including $20.0 million for Option 3, exercised by BARDA on May 26, 2016. The exercised option relates to the support of our Phase 3 EPIC study and the preparation and submission of a NDA to the FDA. For the three-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, total revenue recognized under the BARDA contract was $8.5 million and $4.9 million , respectively, and $13.8 million and $9.7 million , respectively, for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. Through June 30, 2016, a total of $90.9 million under the BARDA contract has been recorded as revenue, with $33.0 million remaining available from the funding currently committed under the contract. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one-year, $407,000 grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. The contract was subsequently modified to extend through July 31, 2016. In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by NIAID for $1.5 million committed through June 30, 2016, with total funding of up to $4.5 million available if all options are exercised under the contract. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added to the awarded funding and the total potential funding was increased to $5.0 million. In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise an option which increased the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018, with total potential funding remaining at $5.0 million if the remaining option is exercised. For the three-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, total revenue recognized under the NIAID contracts was $634,000 and $43,000 , respectively, and $1,213,000 and $82,000 , respectively, for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) . In November 2012, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency ("DTRA"), a division of the U.S. Department of Defense, terminated for convenience a contract with us to develop novel antibacterials for the treatment of biodefense pathogens. In connection with the termination, we sought payment for additional expenses we had incurred. Effective April 30, 2015, we reached a settlement of our claim with DTRA. The net settlement of $7.1 million , together with sums previously received, constitutes complete and final settlement of the contract. Research and Development Expenses Research and development ("R&D") expenses consist primarily of costs associated with research, discovery and preclinical studies of potential new drug compounds, plus product development efforts related to clinical trials and materials manufacturing processes. R&D costs are expensed as incurred and include the following: Page 23 of 68 expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations, investigative sites, and consultants that conduct our clinical trials and a substantial portion of our preclinical activities; employee and consultant-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and consulting fees; third-party supplier expenses including the cost of acquiring and manufacturing clinical trial and other materials; and facilities, depreciation and other allocated expenses, which include direct and allocated expenses for rent and maintenance of facilities, amortization or depreciation of leasehold improvements, equipment and laboratory supplies and other expenses. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for the foreseeable future related to our R&D activities as we continue research programs and the development of our product candidates. In particular, we expect our research and development costs associated with our plazomicin program to increase significantly as our Phase 3 EPIC and CARE trials progress. Since product candidates in later stages of clinical development generally incur higher development costs than those in earlier stages of research and clinical development, primarily due to the increased size and duration of later-stage clinical trials, we expect that our R&D expenses will increase in the future. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist principally of personnel-related costs, professional fees for legal, consulting, audit and tax services, rent and other general operating expenses not otherwise included in R&D. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in future periods, reflecting an expanding infrastructure. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our critical accounting policies and estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. During the six-month period ended June 30, 2016, we have adopted the accounting policy related to the warrant liabilities as discussed below, in addition to the critical accounting policies described under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Warrant Liability In June 2016, we issued warrants to purchase 2.0 million shares of common stock in connection with the Private Placement. The fair value of the warrants is classified as a liability on our consolidated balance sheets as the warrants contain certain material terms which require us to settle the warrants, in a case of certain change of control transactions, for cash equal to the estimated fair value, determined by the Black-Scholes Pricing Model ("Black Scholes"). The initial fair value of the warrants was determined using a calibration model that involved using Black-Scholes, which requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of our common stock and remaining term of the warrants. The warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date, using Black-Scholes, with any changes in the fair value of the outstanding warrants presented as "change in warrant and derivative liabilities" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Page 24 of 68 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three-Month Periods Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Contract Revenue Contract revenue in each period related solely to funding pursuant to our government contracts. Contract revenue decreased $2.9 million to $9.1 million in the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 from $12.0 million in the comparable period in 2015. This decrease was primarily due a $7.1 million settlement of our claim with DTRA related to our research contract that occurred in the comparable period in 2015, partially offset by a $4.2 million increase in research and development services performed under our BARDA and NIAID contracts. Research and Development Expenses R&D expenses increased $11.6 million to $21.7 million in the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 from $10.1 million in the comparable period in 2015. This was primarily due to increases of $7.4 million in the external expenses related to our plazomicin program, mainly attributable to the Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin, $2.0 million in external non-clinical costs for research programs other than plazomicin, including a signing fee under a collaboration and license agreement for an early research program, and $1.8 million in personnel and overhead related costs as headcount increased in our research and development organization since 2015. We record R&D expenses by program where directly identifiable. In the table below, we have allocated indirect R&D costs based on time charged directly to programs by R&D employees. Indirect R&D costs include employee benefit expenses, employee time not charged directly to a program, laboratory supplies and expenses, and allocated facility expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $1.1 million to $4.0 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 from $2.9 million for the comparable period in 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.4 million in personnel and facility related costs and an increase of $0.7 million in consulting and professional fees. Interest Expense Page 25 of 68 Interest expense increased $0.4 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 from zero for the comparable period in 2015. The increase was a result of $25.0 million of borrowings under the Solar Capital loan agreement as of June 30, 2016. Change in Warrant and Derivative Liabilities Change in warrant and derivative liabilities increased $1.4 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 from zero for the comparable period in 2015, primarily due the change in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability. Comparison of the Six-Month Periods Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Contract Revenue Contract revenue in each period related solely to funding pursuant to our government contracts. Contract revenue decreased $1.9 million to $15.0 million in the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 from $16.9 million in the comparable period in 2015. This decrease was primarily due a $7.1 million settlement of our claim with DTRA related to our research contract that occurred in the comparable period in 2015, partially offset by a $5.2 million increase in research and development services performed under our BARDA and NIAID contracts. Research and Development Expenses R&D expenses increased $17.6 million to $35.6 million in the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 from $18.0 million in the comparable period in 2015. This was primarily due to increases of $11.8 million in the external expenses related to our plazomicin program, mainly attributable to the Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin, $2.2 million in external non-clinical costs for research programs other than plazomicin, including a signing fee under a collaboration and license agreement for our early research program, and $2.9 million in personnel and overhead related costs as headcount increased in our research and development organization since 2015. We record R&D expenses by program where directly identifiable. In the table below, we have allocated indirect R&D costs based on time charged directly to programs by R&D employees. Indirect R&D costs include employee benefit expenses, employee time not charged directly to a program, laboratory supplies and expenses, and allocated facility expenses. General and Administrative Expenses Page 26 of 68 General and administrative expenses increased $1.6 million to $7.7 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 from $6.1 million for the comparable period in 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.8 million in personnel and facility related costs and an increase of $0.8 million in consulting and professional fees. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $0.9 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 from zero for the comparable period in 2015. The increase was a result of $25.0 million of borrowings under the Solar Capital loan agreement as of June 30, 2016. Change in Warrant and Derivative Liabilities Change in warrant and derivative liabilities increased $1.4 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 from zero for the comparable period in 2015, primarily due to the change in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net cash used in operating activities was $23.8 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 of $30.5 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $1.4 million for the revaluation of the warrant and derivative liabilities, $0.2 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.3 million for amortization of premium on short-term investments, $0.3 million for non-cash interest expense, $1.8 million for stock-based compensation, and a change in net operating assets and liabilities of $2.8 million . The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities partially offset by an increase in contract receivable and prepaid expenses and other assets, as a result of costs for our ongoing Phase 3 EPIC trial and the timing of our payments. Net cash used in operating activities was $2.9 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2015. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the six-month period ended June 30, 2015 of $7.1 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $0.2 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.3 million for amortization of premium on short-term investments and $1.5 million for stock-based compensation. The change in net operating assets of $2.1 million was due to a decrease in accounts receivable of $0.7 million due to higher collections in the quarter and an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $1.8 million as a result of costs related to preparing for our Phase 3 cUTI trial of plazomicin and the timing of our payments. Net cash provided by investing activities was $22.6 million and $22.4 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net cash provided by investing activities during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 is primarily a result of maturities in excess of purchases of short-term investments of $22.9 million and $22.8 million, respectively. Other uses of cash in both periods resulted from purchases of property, plant and equipment to facilitate our increased R&D activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $35.6 million and $1.1 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net cash provided by financing activities during the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 includes $25.4 million for the sale of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock from the Private Placement, $10.0 million from the term loan provided by Solar Capital Ltd. in June 2016, and $0.2 million from issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans. The net cash provided by financing activities during the six-month period ended June 30, 2015 were proceeds from issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans. Page 27 of 68 Plan of Operations and Future Funding Requirements We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for research, development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. Specifically, we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with our clinical development of plazomicin. Management believes that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, combined with the committed funds from the BARDA contract, are estimated to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements to fund our current planned operations at least through the beginning of the second quarter of 2017. On August 5, 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd., pursuant to which Solar Capital Ltd. agreed to make available to us term loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million, $15.0 million of which was provided to us on August 5, 2015 and $10.0 million of which was provided to us on June 20, 2016. In addition, we are permitted to make interest-only payments through August 2017, followed by 24 equal monthly payments of principal plus interest through the scheduled maturity date of August 2019. On April 7, 2015, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-203282), declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on April 21, 2015 (the "Shelf Registration Statement"), covering the offering of up to $150 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, purchase contracts and units. The Shelf Registration Statement included a prospectus covering the offering, issuance and sale of up to $30.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time in "at the market" offerings pursuant to a Common Stock Sales Agreement entered into with Cowen and Company, LLC (the "Sales Agreement") on April 7, 2015. Through June 2016, we sold 267,520 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement, at a weighted-average price of approximately $6.29 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $1.7 million and net proceeds of $1.6 million , after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. As of June 30, 2016, approximately $148.3 million in securities remained unissued under the Shelf Registration Statement, including up to $28.3 million of common stock available to be sold under the Sales Agreement, subject to certain conditions specified therein. On May 26, 2016, we were awarded an additional $20.0 million from Option 3 of the BARDA Contract to support the Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin, which includes a no-cost extension of the period of performance for Option 1 to September 20, 2016. On June 3, 2016, we closed a Private Placement and received aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million from the sale of 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock. The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. We do not expect that our current capital resources will be sufficient to enable us to seek marketing approval for plazomicin or commercially launch plazomicin. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial additional financing in the future to fund our operations, including for obtaining marketing approval for plazomicin. We may obtain additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, a credit facility, government contracts and/or strategic collaborations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain debt financing may be limited by covenants we have made under our loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. and our pledge to Solar Capital Ltd. of substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, as collateral. The negative pledge in favor of Solar Capital Ltd. with respect to our intellectual property under the loan and security agreement could further limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed could have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategies. The amount and timing of our future financing requirements will depend on many factors, including: the size, timing and type of the nonclinical and clinical trials that we decide to pursue in the development of our product candidates, including plazomicin; the type, number, costs and results of the product candidate development programs which we are pursuing or may choose to pursue in the future; the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities; the timing of, and costs involved in, seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; our ability to enter into additional collaboration, licensing or other arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements; the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; Page 28 of 68 the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; the resources we devote to marketing, and, if approved, commercializing our product candidates; the scope, progress, expansion, and costs of manufacturing our product candidates; our ability to enter into additional government contracts, or other collaborative agreements, to support the development of our product candidates and development efforts; and the costs associated with being a public company. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments as included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the SEC on March 15, 2016, except as noted below: We received an additional $10 million term loan from Solar Capital Ltd. See Note 7 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for more information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.Item1. Financial Statements. Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 3 of 70 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 4 of 70 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 5 of 70 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 6 of 70 Achaogen, Inc. September 30, 2016 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Organization and Basis of Presentation and Consolidation Achaogen, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiary, the "Company") is a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterial drugs to treat multi-drug resistant gram-negative infections. The Company is developing plazomicin, its lead product candidate, for the treatment of serious bacterial infections due to multi-drug resistant Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). The Company's Phase 3 study of plazomicin in the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ("cUTI") and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. In addition, the Company's Phase 3 study of plazomicin, entitled CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae), which is a resistant pathogen-specific trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with certain infections due to CRE, is intended to provide important and meaningful supportive data to be submitted with the plazomicin NDA. The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 2002 and commenced operations in 2004. Since commencing operations in 2004, the Company has devoted substantially all of its resources to identifying and developing its product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these operations. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP can be condensed or omitted. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the Company's annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, which are necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial information. The results of operations for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year or any other future period. The balance sheet as of December31, 2015 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December31, 2015 included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. On June 3, 2016, the Company sold 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock pursuant to Securities Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million and aggregate net proceeds of $25.1 million , after deducting the issuance costs, in connection with a private placement financing transaction (the "Private Placement"). The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 per share and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. On April 7, 2015, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3, declared effective by the SEC on April 21, 2015, covering the offering of up to $150.0 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, purchase contracts and/or units. This Registration Statement included a prospectus covering the offering, issuance and sale of up to $30.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time in an "at-the-market" ("ATM") equity offering pursuant to a sales agreement with Cowen and Company, LLC. As of September 30, 2016, the Company had sold 1,105,549 shares pursuant to its ATM equity offering program at a weighted-average price of $4.82 per share for aggregate offering proceeds of $5.3 million and aggregate net proceeds of $5.1 million , after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. In March 2014, the Company completed its initial public offering ("IPO") of shares of its common stock, pursuant to which the Company issued 6,900,000 shares of common stock, which includes 900,000 shares issued pursuant to the over-allotment option granted to its underwriters, and received net proceeds of approximately $73.9 million , after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. In connection with the completion of the Company's IPO, all Page 7 of 70 shares of convertible preferred stock converted into 10,386,894 shares of common stock and all of the Company's convertible preferred stock warrants were converted into warrants to purchase common stock. The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations every year since its inception. As of September 30, 2016, the Company had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $61.1 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $217.5 million . Management expects to continue to incur additional substantial losses for the foreseeable future as a result of the Company's research and development activities, and the amounts of unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held at September 30, 2016 are sufficient to fund our current planned operations at least through the beginning of the second quarter of 2017 without securing additional funding sources. Management is currently evaluating different options for the raising of additional funds through equity or debt financing arrangements, government contracts and/or third party collaboration funding, however, there can be no assurance that such funding sources will be available at terms acceptable to the Company or at all. If the Company is unable to raise additional funding to meet its working capital needs, it will be forced to delay or reduce the scope of its research programs and/or limit or cease its operations. The lack of financial resources to fund projected negative cash flows and the resultant need to raise substantial additional funding in the near term in order to sustain operations raise substantial doubt as to the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not reflect any adjustments relating to the recoverability and reclassification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to clinical trial accruals, fair value of liabilities, common stock and stock-based awards and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities. Short-term investments consist of available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. Based upon the borrowing rates (which is a Level 2 input) currently available to the Company for loans with similar terms, the Company believes the carrying amount of the loan payable approximates its fair value. The warrant and derivative liabilities are recorded at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value recorded in the Company's statements of operations. Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents include only securities having a maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents consisted of bank deposits, cash, commercial paper and investments in money market funds. Short-term Investments Short-term investments consist of debt securities with maturities greater than three months, but less than one year from the date of acquisition, and are classified as available for sale. Short-term investments are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of net unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities in the Company's consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. The amortized cost of debt Page 8 of 70 securities reflects amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of purchase discounts to date, which are included in interest income. The Company reviews all of its marketable securities on a regular basis to evaluate whether any security has experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. Restricted Cash At September 30, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company had restricted cash of $377,000 and $127,000 . The restricted cash, which consists of money market accounts with one of the Company's financial institutions, serves as collateral for the letters of credit provided as security deposits under the Company's facility leases. As of September 30, 2016, $127,000 of restricted cash is classified as current assets and relates to the current facility lease that expires on April14, 2017 . Warrant Liability On June 3, 2016, the Company issued warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock in connection with the Private Placement. Each warrant has an exercise price of $3.66 per share and is exercisable for five years from the date of issuance. The Company accounts for these warrants as a liability instrument measured at estimated fair value. The initial fair value of the warrants was determined using a calibration model that involved using the Black-Scholes Pricing Model ("Black-Scholes"), which requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of the Company's common stock and remaining term of the warrants. The warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date, using Black-Scholes, with any changes in the fair value of the outstanding warrants recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Segment Reporting Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise about which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision maker in making decisions regarding resource allocation and assessing performance. The Company has one operating segment. Customer Concentration For the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company's revenue had been generated solely from funding pursuant to U.S. government contracts, and accordingly all contracts receivable relate to funding from U.S. government contracts. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a significant concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited in checking and money market accounts at one financial institution with balances that generally exceed federally insured limits. Management believes that the financial institution is financially sound, and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to this financial institution. Our investment policy limits investments to certain types of debt securities issued by the U.S. government, its agencies and institutions with investment-grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents or issuing the debt securities. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had not experienced any credit losses in such accounts or investments. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when: (i)evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)fees are fixed or determinable, (iii)services have been delivered, and (iv)collectability is reasonably assured. The Company currently generates revenue entirely from government contracts. Government contracts are agreements that provide the Company with payments for certain types of expenditures in return for research and development activities over a contractually-defined period. Revenue from government contracts is recognized in the period during which the related costs are incurred and the related services are rendered, provided that the applicable conditions under the government contracts have been met. Costs of contract revenue are recorded as a component of operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statement of operations. Funds received from third parties under contract arrangements are recorded as revenue if the Company is deemed to be the principal participant in the contract arrangements because the activities under the contracts are part of the Company's development programs. If the Company is not the principal participant, the funds from contracts are recorded as a reduction to research and development expense. Contract funds received are not refundable and are recognized when the related qualified Page 9 of 70 research and development costs are incurred and when there is reasonable assurance that the funds will be received. Funds billed and received in advance are recorded as deferred revenue. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses include certain payroll and personnel expenses; laboratory supplies; consulting costs; external contract research and development expenses; and allocated overhead, including rent, equipment depreciation and utilities, and relate to both Company-sponsored programs as well as costs incurred pursuant to collaboration agreements and government contracts. The Company estimates preclinical study and clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and clinical research organizations that conduct and manage preclinical studies and clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company estimates the time period over which services will be performed and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and other current assets and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No.2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (Topic 205-40), Going Concern . This ASU introduces an explicit requirement for management to assess if there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern, and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. In connection with each annual and interim period, management must assess if there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the issuance date. Disclosures are required if conditions give rise to substantial doubt. ASU 2014-15 is effective for all entities in the first annual period ending after December15, 2016. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . This guidance simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes in a classified balance sheet to require that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent and is effective for annual reporting periods, including interim reporting periods, beginning after December 15, 2016, and is applicable to the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not anticipate it will have a material impact to its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases, which, for operating leases, requires a lessee to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in its balance sheet. The standard also requires a lessee to recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term, on a generally straight-line basis. This ASU will be effective for the Company in fiscal year 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-06, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) - Contingent Put and Call Options in Debt Instruments. This ASU clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to their debt hosts. An entity performing the assessment under the amendments in this Update is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision sequence. This guidance should be applied on a modified retrospective basis to existing debt instruments as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the amendments are effective, and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718) - Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This ASU simplifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. This ASU will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this ASU will have a significant impact on its financial statements. Page 10 of 70 In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which provides a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The ASU also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , Deferral of the Effective Date , which defers by one year the effective date of ASU No. 2014-09 to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim periods within those periods). Early adoption is permitted to the original effective date of December 15, 2016 (including interim periods within those periods). In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , which clarifies how to identify the unit of accounting for the principal versus agent evaluation and how to apply the control principle to certain types of arrangements. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which clarifies the implementation guidance on identifying performance obligations and licensing. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, which addresses certain issues on assessing collectability, presentation of sales taxes, noncash consideration, and completed contracts and contract modifications at transition. These ASUs will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, using one of two retrospective application methods. The Company has not selected a transition method and is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during the period. For purposes of this calculation, preferred stock, stock options, restricted stock units and warrants are considered to be common stock equivalents and are only included in the calculation of diluted net loss per share when their effect is dilutive. For the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, all potentially dilutive securities outstanding have been excluded from the computations of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding because such securities have an antidilutive impact due to losses reported. Below are listed the potentially dilutive securities outstanding as of September 30, 2016 and 2015: Warrants outstanding as of September 30, 2016 have a weighted-average exercise price of $3.78 . 3. Fair Value Measurements Financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value. The carrying amount of certain financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair values. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or an exit price that would be paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements as follows: Level 1 : Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Page 11 of 70 Level 3 : Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires management to make judgments and consider factors specific to the asset or liability. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities are classified as Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. The Company's Level 2 valuations of marketable securities are generally derived from independent pricing services based upon quoted prices in active markets for similar securities, with prices adjusted for yield and number of days to maturity, or based on industry models using data inputs, such as interest rates and prices that can be directly observed or corroborated in active markets. In certain cases, where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3 within the valuation hierarchy. Level 3 liabilities that are measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis consist of a derivative liability in connection with loan payable and a warrant liability in connection with the Private Placement. As of September 30, 2016 and December31 2015, financial assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis and classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as described above were as follows (in thousands): Page 12 of 70 All available-for-sale securities held as of September 30, 2016 had maturities less than one year from the date of acquisition. There were no sales of available-for-sale securities in any of the periods presented. The carrying value of corporate debt obligations that were in unrealized loss positions totaled $13.3 million as of September 30, 2016. The Company has determined that (i)it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments, and (ii)it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such corporate debt obligations and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016. Pursuant to the loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. (see Note 7), the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement under which the Company agreed to pay $1.0 million in cash (the "Success Fee")if the Company obtains approval to market plazomicin from the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"). If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee, approximately $375,000 at December 31, 2015, is recorded as a derivative liability and included in other long-term liabilities on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability as of September 30, 2016 increased by $38,000 to $413,000 from December 31, 2015, as a result of the time value of money, which is presented as change in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations for the nine-months ended September 30, 2016. The fair value of the derivative liability was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, and is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs. Specifically, the key assumptions included in the calculation of the estimated fair value of the derivative instrument include: i) the Company's estimates of both the probability and timing of a potential $1.0 million payment to Solar Capital Ltd. upon FDA approval to market plazomicin, and ii) a discount rate of 13% which was derived from the Company's estimated cost of debt. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability is most sensitive to the probability of FDA approval. Should the probability of FDA approval change by 5% , the fair value of the derivative liability as of September 30, 2016 would change by approximately $32,000 . For the three-month period ended September 30, 2016, there was no change to the key assumptions used in the calculation of the estimated fair value. Any changes in the estimated fair values are presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Pursuant to the Private Placement (see Note 2), the Company issued warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.66 . The Company classified these warrants as a liability measured at fair value using Black- Page 13 of 70 Scholes. Under certain entity conditions, the holder of a warrant may require the Company to settle the warrant in cash at its estimated fair value using Black-Scholes. On the closing date of the Private Placement, June 3, 2016, the $2.6 million initial estimated fair value of the warrants was recorded as a warrant liability on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. At September 30, 2016, the estimated fair value of the warrants was approximately $5.4 million . The change in the estimated fair value is primarily due to the increase in the Company's stock price and is included in changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of the warrant liability is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs, including the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of the Company's common stock and remaining term of the warrants. The estimated fair values of the warrants were determined using Black-Scholes with the following assumptions, during the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016: The expected volatility is based on the Company's expected volatility. The expected term is based on the remaining life of the warrants. The risk-free interest rate is obtained from the yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities for a period equal to the expected term of the warrants. The dividend yield is zero because the Company has never paid cash dividends and has no present intention to pay cash dividends. Should the share price change by 5% , the fair value of the warrant liability as of September 30, 2016 would change by approximately $394,000 . Changes in the fair value of recurring measurements included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations and were as follows for the nine-months ended September 30, 2016 (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Accrued Liabilities Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. License and Collaboration Agreements Crystal Biosciences, Inc. Page 14 of 70 In May 2016, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Crystal Biosciences, Inc. ("Crystal"). Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, the Company and Crystal agreed to collaborate on the discovery of monoclonal antibodies against multiple targets. Crystal agreed to conduct the initial discovery work with its antibody platform and the Company has the right to develop and commercialize the antibodies discovered through this collaboration. The Company is required to provide signing and milestone payments with respect to research, development, regulatory and commercialization milestones (if any). All such milestone payments may total, in aggregate, up to but no more than $20,550,000 . The upfront signing fee was fully recorded as research and development expense in May 2016. This collaboration and license agreement also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit percentage of annual worldwide net sales of the commercialized product. Ionis Pharmaceuticals In January 2006, the Company entered into a license agreement with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Ionis"). Ionis granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide license with the right to grant and authorize sublicenses related to the research and development of aminoglycoside products. As an up-front fee, the Company issued 97,402 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock at a fair value of $15.40 per share. This license fee of $1,500,000 was recorded as research and development expense in 2006. In further consideration of this license, and in accordance with the terms of the agreement, the Company is required to make milestone payments with respect to development, regulatory and commercialization milestones, and to pay a percentage of revenue received from sublicensees (if any). All such milestone and sublicense revenue payments may total, in the aggregate, up to but no more than $19,500,000 for the first product and $9,750,000 following the second product commercialized under the agreement with Ionis. The Company is also required to pay additional milestone payments of up to $20,000,000 in the aggregate upon the first achievement of specified threshold levels of annual net sales of all aminoglycoside products in a calendar year. The license agreement also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit percentage of annual worldwide net sales of all licensed products, including plazomicin. Through September 30, 2016, the Company had compensated Ionis $7,000,000 in connection with the first three milestones under the license for the first aminoglycoside product candidate. As of September 30, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company had no outstanding payments due under the agreement. 6. Government Contracts Certain of the Company's drug discovery and development activities are performed under contracts with U.S. government agencies. Management has determined that the Company is the principal participant in the following contract arrangements, and, accordingly, the Company records amounts earned under the arrangements as revenue. Costs incurred under revenue contracts are recorded as operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statements of operations. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority In August 2010, the Company was awarded a contract with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA") for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. The original contract included committed funding of $27,600,000 for the first two years of the contract and subsequent options exercisable by BARDA to provide additional funding. In September 2012, BARDA exercised an additional $15,798,000 contract option ("Option 1"), which increased the total contract committed funding to $43,398,000 through March 2014. In April 2013, the Company was awarded an additional $60,410,000 under the contract to support its Phase 3 clinical trial of plazomicin ("Option 2") to increase the total committed funding under this contract to $103,808,000 . On May 26, 2016, the Company was awarded an additional $20 million ("Option 3") under the contract to support its Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin. This brings the total committed funding under the contract to $123,808,000 . The Company recorded contract revenue of $15,431,000 and $3,783,000 under this agreement during the three-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $29,211,000 and $13,500,000 during the nine-month periods ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Defense Threat Reduction Agency In November 2012, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency ("DTRA"), a division of the U.S. Department of Defense, terminated for convenience a contract with the Company to develop novel antibacterials for the treatment of biodefense pathogens. In connection with the termination, the Company sought payment from DTRA for additional expenses the Company had incurred. Effective April 30, 2015, the Company reached a settlement of its claim with DTRA. The net settlement of $7,122,000 was recorded as contract revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Together with sums previously received, it constitutes complete and final settlement of the contract. Page 15 of 70 National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID") for $1.5 million committed through September 30, 2016, with total funding of up to $4.5 million available if all options are exercised under the contract. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added to the awarded funding and the total potential funding was increased to $5.0 million . In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise an option which increased the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018, with total potential funding remaining at $5.0 million if the remaining option is exercised. In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one -year, $407,000 grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. In July 2015, NIAID extended the grant term through July 31, 2016. The Company recorded contract revenue of $615,000 and $693,000 under these agreements during the three-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $1,828,000 and $775,000 the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 7. Borrowings Solar Capital Ltd. Loan Agreement On August 5, 2015, the Company entered into a loan and security agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Solar Capital Ltd. (the "Lender") pursuant to which the Lender agreed to make available to the Company term loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million with a maturity date of August 5, 2019. An initial $15.0 million term loan was funded at closing on August 5, 2015, and a second $10.0 million term loan was funded on June 20, 2016. Borrowings under the term loans bear interest per annum at 6.99% plus the greater of 1% or the one-month LIBOR. The Company is currently required to make interest-only payments on the term loans through August 2017, and beginning on September 1, 2017 the Company is required to make monthly payments of interest plus equal monthly payments of principal over a term of 24 months. The Loan Agreement requires collateral by a security interest in all of the Company's assets except intellectual property (which is subject to a negative pledge) and contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, and also includes standard events of default, including payment defaults. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, a default interest rate of an additional 4% may be applied to the outstanding loan balances, and the Lender may declare all outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and take such other actions as set forth in the Loan Agreement. There were no financial covenants attached to the loan. The Loan Agreement included a closing fee of $250,000 which was paid at closing, and the Company is obligated to pay a fee equal to 8% of the term loans funded upon the earliest to occur of the maturity date, the acceleration of the term loans or the voluntary prepayment of the term loans. The cost of these fees is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. The Company may voluntarily prepay all, but not less than all, of the outstanding term loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains customary events of default that entitle the Lender to cause the Company's indebtedness under the Loan Agreement to become immediately due and payable. On August 5, 2015, pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement with the Lender under which the Company agreed to pay the Lender $1.0 million if the Company obtains FDA approval to market plazomicin. If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee at the date of issuance of approximately $356,000 was recorded as a debt discount and is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. Page 16 of 70 Future principal debt payments on the currently outstanding term loan are payable as follows (in thousands): The obligation includes a final fee of $2,000,000 , representing 8% of the term loan currently funded, which accretes over the life of the loan as interest expense. The Company recorded interest expense related to the loan of $0.7 million and $0.3 million for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $1.6 million and $0.3 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 8. Stockholders' Equity On April 7, 2015, the Company entered into a Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which the Company may issue and sell shares of its common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of September 30, 2016, the Company had sold 1,105,549 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement, at a weighted-average price of approximately $4.82 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.3 million and net proceeds of $5.1 million after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. As of September 30, 2016, $24.7 million of common stock remained available to be sold under the Sales Agreement, subject to certain conditions specified therein. On June 3, 2016, the Company sold 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreement for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million in the Private Placement. The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. The Company's Chief Operating Officer, a related party, participated in the Private Placement by purchasing 141,453 shares of common stock and a warrant to purchase 35,363 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $0.5 million . Issuance costs of $0.3 million were offset against equity as a reduction from gross proceeds. At the close of the Private Placement, the estimated fair values of the common stock and warrants issued were $22.9 million and $2.6 million , respectively. At September 30, 2016, using Black-Scholes, the Company estimated the fair value of the warrant liability to be $5.4 million and recorded a charge of $1.5 million and $2.8 million , for the increase in the liability, in the condensed consolidated statements of operations, for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016, respectively. Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (the "2014 Plan"), which became effective as of March 11, 2014. Under the 2014 Plan, the Company may grant incentive stock options ("ISOs"), nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and other stock-based awards for the purchase of that number of shares of common stock. Effective, January 1, 2016, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 735,808 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the 2014 Plan. As of September 30, 2016, 626,991 shares were available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan. Page 17 of 70 Under the 2014 Plan, the terms of stock award agreements, including vesting requirements, are determined by the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the 2014 Plan. Options granted by the Company typically vest over a four year period and the exercise price may not be less than fair market value on the date of grant. Certain of the options are subject to acceleration of vesting in the event of certain change of control transactions. Options granted under the 2014 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan In December 2014, the Company adopted a 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan (the "Inducement Plan"). The Inducement Plan is designed to comply with the inducement exemption contained in Nasdaq's Rule 5635(c)(4), which provides for the grant of non-qualified stock options, RSUs, restricted stock awards, performance awards, dividend equivalents, deferred stock awards, deferred stock units, stock payment and stock appreciation rights to a person not previously an employee or director of the Company, or following a bona fide period of non-employment, as an inducement material to the individual's entering into employment with the Company. As of September 30, 2016, a total of 1,150,000 shares of common stock have been authorized under the Inducement Plan, including the additional 500,000 shares that became available resulting from an amendment adopted by the board of directors as of March 17, 2016. As of September 30, 2016, 197,592 shares were available for future issuance under the Inducement Plan. 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which became effective as of March11, 2014. Effective, January 1, 2016, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 183,952 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the ESPP. As of September 30, 2016, 141,527 shares of common stock have been issued to employees participating in the ESPP, and 366,950 shares are available for issuance under the ESPP. Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan The Company's Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan (the "2003 Plan"), provided for the granting of incentive and non-statutory stock options to employees, directors and consultants at the discretion of the board of directors. The Company granted options under its 2003 Plan until January 2014 and it was terminated as to future awards in March 2014, although it continues to govern the terms of options that remain outstanding under the 2003 Plan. Options granted under the 2003 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. Options granted under the 2003 Plan vest over periods determined by the board of directors, generally over four years . The 2003 Plan allows for early exercise of certain options prior to vesting. Upon termination of employment, the unvested shares are subject to repurchase at the original exercise price. Stock options granted or modified after March21, 2002, that are subsequently exercised for cash prior to vesting, are not deemed to be issued until those shares vest. As of September 30, 2016 and December31, 2015 there were no shares subject to repurchase relating to the early exercise of options. In connection with the board of directors and stockholders approval of the 2014 Plan, all remaining shares available for future awards under the 2003 Plan were transferred to the 2014 Plan, and the 2003 Plan was terminated as to future awards. As of September 30, 2016, a total of 889,755 shares of common stock are subject to options outstanding under the 2003 plan, which shares will become available under the 2014 Plan to the extent the options are forfeited or lapse unexercised. Page 18 of 70 The following table summarizes stock option activity under the stock plans, excluding the ESPP, and related information: Stock-based compensation expense recognized for stock options granted to employees and non-employee directors in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations was as follows (in thousands): As of September 30, 2016, approximately $6,979,000 of total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.87 years . The estimated grant date fair value of employee stock options with time-based vesting terms was calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, based on the following assumptions: Stock Options Granted to Non-Employees During the three-month period ended September 30, 2016, the Company granted to a non-employee an option to purchase 15,000 shares of common stock. The Company did not grant stock options to non-employees during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2015. The Company recorded non-employees stock-based compensation expense of approximately $6,000 and zero for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $6,000 and zero for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company measures the estimated fair value of the award for each period until the award is fully vested. The fair value of options granted to non-employees during the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 was estimated using Black-Scholes with the following assumptions: Page 19 of 70 Restricted Stock Units Granted to Employees During the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, the Company granted RSUs to employees to receive 324,650 shares of common stock under the Company's stock plans with a weighted-average estimated grant-date fair value of $3.86 per share. RSUs generally vest annually over a 4 -year service period and vesting is contingent on continued service. As of September 30, 2016, there were unrecognized compensation costs of $2,877,000 related to outstanding RSUs, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.92 years . A summary of RSU activity is as follows: Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units Granted to Employees that Contain Performance Conditions During the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016, the Company granted options to purchase an aggregate of 129,000 and 340,250 shares of common stock and 6,750 and 56,925 RSUs that vest upon the achievement of market-based common stock price targets. The fair values of these options and RSUs were estimated at the grant date using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. The Monte-Carlo simulation model requires the use of a range of assumptions. The risk-free interest rate range was 1.37% to 1.76% , expected volatility rate was 70% and the dividend rate was 0% . The expected life assumption is not used in Monte-Carlo simulation model, but the output of the model indicated an expected time to vest of 2.5 to 6.0 years. The associated stock-based compensation expense is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the implicit service period (expected time to vest) derived from that simulation model. The Company did not issue any performance based options to purchase common stock, or RSUs during the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015. 9. Commitments Nonrefundable advance payments In July 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with its pharmaceutical contract manufacturing organization that obligates it to make a total of $1.5 million of nonrefundable advance payments for the reservation of facilities and resources, plus procurement of long-lead raw materials, to produce plazomicin for regulatory commercial validation. Such advance payments are initially capitalized asprepaid and other current assets and are being recognized as research and development expenses as goods are delivered and services are performed. The Company assesses such prepaid and other current assets for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or may not provide future economic benefits.As of September 30, 2016, the Company had recorded $0.8 million as prepaid and other current assets related to this agreement. Through September 30, 2016, the Company has recognized $0.7 million as research and development expenses. Facilities Lease Obligation Page 20 of 70 The Company leases its principal executive offices in South San Francisco under a non-cancelable lease agreement that expires on April 14, 2017. In August 2016, the Company entered into a non-cancelable agreement (the "Lease") to lease approximately 47,000 square feet of office, laboratory and research and development space for the Company's new principal executive offices. The Lease is set to commence in March 2017, after the substantial completion of certain improvements ("Tenant Improvements") required under the Lease, and set to expire in August 2027 ("Lease Term"). The Lease contains expansion options and an option to extend the Lease Term for an additional 5 years . Base rent for the first year of the Lease Term is approximately $2.7 million , with an increase in annual base rent of approximately 3.5% in each subsequent year of the Lease Term. The Lease also provides for rent abatement of approximately $1.8 million for the first year of the Lease Term. The Company is entitled to a one-time improvement allowance of $5.7 million for the Tenant Improvements (the "Allowance"). The Landlord disburses the Allowance for the Tenant Improvement on behalf of the Company. In the event that the Company withdraws from the Lease prior to the commencement of the Lease, the Company will be required to reimburse the Landlord for expenditures incurred related to the Tenant Improvements. As of September 30, 2016, the Company has recorded approximately $107,000 within construction-in-progress under property, plant and equipment, net and other current liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet related to costs incurred under the Allowance. At its election, the Company is also entitled to an additional improvements allowance of $0.9 million ("Additional Allowance"). In the event the Company elects to use the Additional Allowance, the base rent will be increased as calculated in the Lease. Further, the Company had a deposit of $250,000 included in long-term restricted cash as of September 30, 2016, restricted from withdrawal and held in a money market account with one of the Company's financial institutions in the form of collateral for a letter of credit held as security for the Lease. Future minimum lease payments under the operating leases as of September 30, 2016 are as follows (in thousands): The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the non-cancelable lease period. Rent expense was $145,000 and $150,000 for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $435,000 and $381,000 for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Page 21 of 70 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and ourAnnual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "should," "estimate," or "continue," and similar expressions or variations. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in Part II Other Information, Item1A. Risk Factors below and elsewhere in this report, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or anticipated results. The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q represent our views as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should, therefore, not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterials to treat multi-drug resistant ("MDR") gram-negative infections. We are developing plazomicin, our lead product candidate, for the treatment of serious bacterial infections due to MDR Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). In 2013, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention identified CRE as "nightmare bacteria" and an immediate public health threat that requires "urgent and aggressive action." Our development plan for plazomicin includes two Phase 3 clinical trials. The first study, a Phase 3 trial of plazomicin for the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ("cUTI") and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. The Phase 3 EPIC trial is a randomized, double blind, active controlled study in patients with cUTI and AP and allows broad enrollment of patients with gram-negative infections. We have reached agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") that this non-inferiority trial comparing plazomicin to meropenem with a 15% non-inferiority margin and a corresponding sample size of approximately 530 patients, is acceptable. The first patient was enrolled in the Phase 3 EPIC trial in January 2016 and enrollment was closed in August 2016 with 609 patients. We expect top-line results for our Phase 3 EPIC trial by the end of 2016 and expect to submit an NDA for plazomicin in the second half of 2017, with a planned commercial launch of plazomicin in the U.S. in 2018, if our NDA is approved. We also plan to submit a Marketing Authorization Application to the European Medicines Agency for plazomicin in 2018. The Phase 3 EPIC trial enrolled a broad range of patients with cUTI or AP, including patients with infections due to MDR gram-negative pathogens. If successful, this study will provide clinical evidence of non-inferiority to meropenem, a carbapenem antibiotic considered to be a last line of defense in patients with serious infections due to Enterobacteriaceae, including fluoroquinolone resistant and extended spectrum beta-lactamase ("ESBL") producing isolates. We believe that favorable efficacy data from this trial will provide the basis for FDA approval and will permit plazomicin to be used as a treatment for MDR gram-negative pathogens, including CRE and ESBL-producing pathogens. This study will also provide important safety data regarding plazomicin in patients with various co-morbidities, including those with varying degrees of renal function. The second ongoing study, our Phase 3 CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae) trial is a resistant pathogen-specific trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with infections due to CRE. We believe our Phase 3 CARE trial will provide important data about plazomicin's potential in treating patients with CRE infections, where there are limited treatment options currently available. The Phase 3 CARE trial is funded in part with a contract from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA"), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. We ended enrollment in the CARE study in August 2016 and expect to announce top-line data results from our Phase 3 CARE study by the end of 2016. We plan to submit the Phase 3 CARE study results as supportive data with the plazomicin NDA based on our Phase 3 EPIC trial and to submit the results to a peer-reviewed journal and for presentation at a medical meeting in 2017. Based on physician market research, we believe the Phase 3 CARE study will provide important and Page 22 of 70 meaningful data regarding the efficacy, safety, microbiology, and dosing, as well as important health economic data, to better inform use of plazomicin in the treatment of patients with CRE infections. In 2012, the FDA granted fast track designation for the development and regulatory review of plazomicin to treat serious and life-threatening CRE infections. In 2014, plazomicin received Qualified Infectious Disease Product ("QIDP") designation from the FDA. The QIDP designation was created by the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now ("GAIN") Act, which was part of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act and provides certain incentives for the development of new antibiotics, including priority review and an additional five years of market exclusivity. Our plazomicin program is funded in part with a contract from BARDA for up to $123.8 million . We have global commercialization rights to plazomicin, which has patent protection in the United States extending through 2031. Plazomicin is the first clinical candidate from our gram-negative antibiotic discovery engine, and we have other programs in early and late preclinical stages focused on other MDR gram-negative infections. Since commencing operations in 2004, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and developing our product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these functions. In addition to plazomicin, our research team is focused on discovering medicines with novel mechanisms of action for serious infections caused by gram-negative bacteria, including MDR Pseudomonas aeruginosa and MDR Acinetobacter baumannii. We are taking a multifaceted approach to identify new antibacterial agents through our research. In May 2016, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Crystal Biosciences, Inc. to identify and generate therapeutic antibodies against multiple novel targets. Our goal is to file an investigational new drug application ("IND") from our research programs in 2017. Since our inception, we have financed our operations with the proceeds of our initial public offering ("IPO") of common stock, proceeds from sales of our common stock through our at-the-market ("ATM") equity offering program, funding under our contracts with government agencies, private placements of our equity securities and certain debt-related financing arrangements. Currently, our plazomicin program is funded in part with a contract from BARDA. Our other programs are currently funded primarily with company funds, although we also received a contract for $4.4 million in 2015 from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID"), with additional funding of up to $0.6 million available if all options are exercised. Historically, our preclinical programs have received funding support from organizations in addition to the NIH and NIAID, such as the U.S. Department of Defense and The Wellcome Trust, a global charitable foundation. We intend to continue to seek further collaborations with government agencies, non-profit foundations, and other research and development funding organizations to support our discovery efforts and advance the product candidates in our pipeline. On March17, 2014, we completed our IPO of common stock. We sold 6,900,000 shares of our common stock, which included 900,000 shares issued as a result of the underwriters exercising their over-allotment option in full. We received cash proceeds of approximately $73.9 million from the IPO, net of underwriting commissions and related expenses. On April 7, 2015, we entered into the Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity offering program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of September 30, 2016, we had sold 1,105,549 shares under the Sales Agreement at an average price of $4.82 per share and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $5.1 million , after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. On August 5, 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd., pursuant to which Solar Capital Ltd. agreed to make available to us term loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million, $15.0 million of which was provided to us on August 5, 2015 and $10.0 million of which was provided to us on June 20, 2016. On May 26, 2016, BARDA exercised an additional option ("Option 3") under its existing contract, and we were awarded an additional $20.0 million in contract funding. Option 3 also includes a no-cost extension of the period of performance for Option 1 to September 20, 2016, under the contract to support our Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin. The funding from Option 3 is focused on the Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial of plazomicin, the EPIC study, in cUTI. This brings the total committed funding under the contract to $123.8 million . On June 3, 2016, we sold 7,999,996 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of common stock pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement ("Purchase Agreement") for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million and aggregate net proceeds of $25.1 million , after deducting the issuance costs, in a private placement financing transaction (the "Private Placement"). The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. We have never been profitable and have incurred net losses in each year since the commencement of our operations. Substantially all of our net losses have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and associated general and administrative costs. We expect to incur substantial losses from operations in the foreseeable future Page 23 of 70 as we advance plazomicin and other product candidates through preclinical and clinical development, seek regulatory approval, and prepare for, if approved, commercialization. Management believes that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, combined with the committed funds from the BARDA contract, are estimated to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements to fund our current planned operations at least through the beginning of the second quarter of 2017. Still, we will be required to obtain further funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaboration and licensing arrangements or other sources. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 1 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and to our consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 for additional information describing the circumstances that lead to the inclusion of this explanatory paragraph. Financial Overview Contract Revenue We have derived all of our revenue to date from funding provided under U.S. government contracts in connection with the development of our product candidates. Our product candidates are still in clinical and preclinical development and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Other than this contract revenue from government funding, we do not expect to derive any revenue from any product candidates that we develop until we obtain regulatory approval and commercialize such products, which we do not expect will occur before 2018, if at all, or until such time that we potentially enter into collaboration agreements with third parties for the development and commercialization of such product candidates. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) . We have received funding for our lead product candidate, plazomicin, under a contract with BARDA, an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. Our BARDA contract provides for payments to us based on direct costs incurred and allowances for overhead, plus a fee, where applicable. The total committed funding under our BARDA contract is $123.8 million , including $20.0 million for Option 3, exercised by BARDA on May 26, 2016. The exercised option relates to the support of our Phase 3 EPIC study and the preparation and submission of a NDA to the FDA. For the three-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, total revenue recognized under the BARDA contract was $15.4 million and $3.8 million , respectively, and $29.2 million and $13.5 million , respectively, for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. Through September 30, 2016, a total of $106.3 million under the BARDA contract was recorded as revenue, with $17.5 million remaining available from the funding currently committed under the contract. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one-year, $407,000 grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. The contract was subsequently modified to extend through July 31, 2016. In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by NIAID for $1.5 million committed through September 30, 2016, with total funding of up to $4.5 million available if all options are exercised under the contract. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added to the awarded funding and the total potential funding was increased to $5.0 million. In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise an option which increased the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018, with total potential funding remaining at $5.0 million if the remaining option is exercised. For the three-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, total revenue recognized under the NIAID contracts was $615,000 and $693,000 , respectively, and $1,828,000 and $775,000 , respectively, for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) . In November 2012, the Defense Threat Reduction Agency ("DTRA"), a division of the U.S. Department of Defense, terminated for convenience a contract with us to develop novel antibacterials for the treatment of biodefense pathogens. In connection with the termination, we sought payment for additional expenses we had incurred. Effective April 30, 2015, we reached a settlement of our claim with DTRA. The net settlement of $7.1 million , together with sums previously received, constitutes complete and final settlement of the contract. Page 24 of 70 Research and Development Expenses Research and development ("R&D") expenses consist primarily of costs associated with research, discovery and preclinical studies of potential new drug compounds, plus product development efforts related to clinical trials and materials manufacturing processes. R&D costs are expensed as incurred and include the following: expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations, investigative sites, and consultants that conduct our clinical trials and a substantial portion of our preclinical activities; employee and consultant-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and consulting fees; third-party supplier expenses including the cost of acquiring and manufacturing clinical trial and other materials; and facilities, depreciation and other allocated expenses, which include direct and allocated expenses for rent and maintenance of facilities, amortization or depreciation of leasehold improvements, equipment and laboratory supplies and other expenses. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for the foreseeable future related to our R&D activities as we continue research programs and the development of our product candidates. Further, we have incurred substantial research and development costs associated with our plazomicin program as our Phase 3 EPIC and CARE trials have completed patient enrollment. We expect to continue to incur substantial R&D expenses in the future as we continue to support plazomicin development, including preparations to submit an NDA for plazomicin to the FDA. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist principally of personnel-related costs, professional fees for legal, consulting, audit and tax services, rent and other general operating expenses not otherwise included in R&D. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in future periods, reflecting an expanding infrastructure in preparation for commercialization of plazomicin, if approved. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our critical accounting policies and estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. During the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, we adopted the accounting policy related to the warrant liabilities as discussed below, in addition to the critical accounting policies described under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Warrant Liability In June 2016, we issued warrants to purchase 2.0 million shares of common stock in connection with the Private Placement. The fair value of the warrants is classified as a liability on our consolidated balance sheets as the warrants contain certain material terms which require us to settle the warrants, in a case of certain change of control transactions, for cash equal to the estimated fair value, determined by the Black-Scholes Pricing Model ("Black Scholes"). The initial fair value of the warrants was determined using a calibration model that involved using Black-Scholes, which requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of our Page 25 of 70 common stock and remaining term of the warrants. The warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date, using Black-Scholes, with any changes in the fair value of the outstanding warrants included in "change in warrant and derivative liabilities" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three-Month Periods Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 Contract Revenue Contract revenue in each period related solely to funding pursuant to our government contracts. Contract revenue increased $11.5 million to $16.0 million in the three-month period ended September 30, 2016 from $4.5 million in the comparable period in 2015. This increase was primarily due to an increase in research and development services performed under our BARDA contract. Research and Development Expenses R&D expenses increased $10.5 million to $20.5 million in the three-month period ended September 30, 2016 from $10.0 million in the comparable period in 2015. This was primarily due to increases of $7.5 million in the external expenses related to our plazomicin program, mainly attributable to the Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin, $1.0 million in consulting and non-clinical costs for research programs other than plazomicin and $2.1 million in personnel and overhead related costs as headcount increased in our research and development organization since 2015. We record R&D expenses by program where directly identifiable. In the table below, we have allocated indirect R&D costs based on time charged directly to programs by R&D employees. Indirect R&D costs include employee benefit expenses, employee time not charged directly to a program, laboratory supplies and expenses, and allocated facility expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $1.5 million to $4.5 million for the three-month period ended September 30, 2016 from $3.0 million for the comparable period in 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $0.8 million in personnel and facility related costs and an increase of $0.7 million in costs supporting the development, manufacturing, registration and commercialization of plazomicin. Page 26 of 70 Interest Expense Interest expense increased $0.4 million to $0.7 million for the three-month period ended September 30, 2016 from $0.3 million for the comparable period in 2015. The increase was a result of an additional $10.0 million of borrowings under the Solar Capital loan agreement in June 2016. Change in Warrant and Derivative Liabilities Change in warrant and derivative liabilities increased $1.5 million for the three-month period ended September 30, 2016 from zero for the comparable period in 2015. The increase is primarily due to the change in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability, which increased mainly due to the change in our stock price. Comparison of the Nine-Month Periods Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 Contract Revenue Contract revenue in each period related solely to funding pursuant to our government contracts. Contract revenue increased $9.6 million to $31.0 million in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 from $21.4 million in the comparable period in 2015. This increase was primarily due to an increase in research and development services performed under our BARDA and NIAID contracts. Research and Development Expenses R&D expenses increased $28.1 million to $56.1 million in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 from $28.0 million in the comparable period in 2015. This was primarily due to increases of $19.2 million in the external expenses related to our plazomicin program, mainly attributable to the Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin, $3.9 million in consulting and non-clinical costs for research programs other than plazomicin, including a signing fee under a collaboration and license agreement for our early research program, and $5.0 million in personnel and overhead related costs as headcount increased in our research and development organization since 2015. We record R&D expenses by program where directly identifiable. In the table below, we have allocated indirect R&D costs based on time charged directly to programs by R&D employees. Indirect R&D costs include employee benefit expenses, employee time not charged directly to a program, laboratory supplies and expenses, and allocated facility expenses. Page 27 of 70 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $3.1 million to $12.2 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 from $9.1 million for the comparable period in 2015. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $1.5 million in personnel and facility related costs, an increase of $0.9 million in consulting and professional fees, and an increase of $0.7 million in costs supporting the development, manufacturing, registration and commercialization of plazomicin Interest Expense Interest expense increased $1.3 million to $1.6 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 from $0.3 million for the comparable period in 2015. The increase was the result of $15.0 million of borrowings in August 2015 and an additional $10.0 million of borrowings in June 2016, under the Solar Capital loan agreement. Change in Warrant and Derivative Liabilities Change in warrant and derivative liabilities increased $2.9 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 from zero for the comparable period in 2015. The increase is primarily due to the change in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability, which increased mainly due to the change in our stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $35.0 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 of $41.5 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $2.9 million for the revaluation of the warrant and derivative liabilities, $0.3 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.3 million for amortization of premium on short-term investments, $0.5 million for non-cash interest expense, $2.7 million for stock-based compensation, and a change in net operating assets and liabilities of $0.2 million . The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities partially offset by an increase in contract receivable and prepaid expenses and other assets, as a result of costs for our ongoing Phase 3 EPIC trial and the timing of our payments. Net cash used in operating activities was $9.6 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2015. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2015 of $15.8 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $0.3 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.3 million for amortization of premium on short-term investments and $2.3 million for stock-based compensation and a change in net operating assets and liabilities of $3.1 million. The change in net operating assets and liabilities of $3.1 million was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities as a result of costs related to preparing for our Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin and the timing of our payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $18.2 million and $8.7 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net cash provided by investing activities during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 is primarily a result of maturities in excess of purchases of short-term investments of $18.9 million and $9.1 Page 28 of 70 million , respectively. Other uses of cash in both periods resulted from purchases of property, plant and equipment to facilitate our increased R&D activities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $38.3 million and $17.1 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net cash provided by financing activities during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 includes $25.1 million for the sale of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock from the Private Placement, $10.0 million from the term loan provided by Solar Capital Ltd. in June 2016, $3.0 million through "at the market" offerings in which Cowen and Company, LLC acted as sales agent, and $0.2 million from issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans. The net cash provided by financing activities during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2015 were from net proceeds from borrowings of $14.6 million, the issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans of $1.2 million and the sale of our common stock of $1.3 million through "at the market" offerings in which Cowen and Company, LLC acted as sales agent. Plan of Operations and Future Funding Requirements We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for research, development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. Specifically, we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with our clinical development of plazomicin. Management believes that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, combined with the committed funds from the BARDA contract, are estimated to be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements to fund our current planned operations at least through the beginning of the second quarter of 2017. On August 5, 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd., pursuant to which Solar Capital Ltd. agreed to make available to us term loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million, $15.0 million of which was provided to us on August 5, 2015 and $10.0 million of which was provided to us on June 20, 2016. In addition, we are permitted to make interest-only payments through August 2017, followed by 24 equal monthly payments of principal plus interest through the scheduled maturity date of August 2019. On April 7, 2015, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-203282), declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on April 21, 2015 (the "Shelf Registration Statement"), covering the offering of up to $150 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, purchase contracts and units. The Shelf Registration Statement included a prospectus covering the offering, issuance and sale of up to $30.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time in "at the market" offerings pursuant to a Common Stock Sales Agreement entered into with Cowen and Company, LLC (the "Sales Agreement") on April 7, 2015. Through September 2016, we sold 1,105,549 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement, at a weighted-average price of approximately $4.82 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.3 million and net proceeds of $5.1 million , after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. As of September 30, 2016, approximately $144.7 million in securities remained unissued under the Shelf Registration Statement, including up to $24.7 million of common stock available to be sold under the Sales Agreement, subject to certain conditions specified therein. On May 26, 2016, we were awarded an additional $20.0 million from Option 3 of the BARDA Contract to support the Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin, which includes a no-cost extension of the period of performance for Option 1 to September 20, 2016. On June 3, 2016, we closed a Private Placement and received aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million and aggregate net proceeds of $25.1 million , after deducting the issuance costs, from the sale of 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock. The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. We do not expect that our current capital resources will be sufficient to enable us to seek marketing approval for plazomicin or commercially launch plazomicin. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial additional financing in the future to fund our operations, including for obtaining marketing approval for plazomicin. We may obtain additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, a credit facility, government contracts and/or strategic collaborations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain debt financing may be limited by covenants we have made under our loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. and our pledge to Solar Capital Ltd. of substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, as collateral. The negative pledge in favor of Solar Capital Ltd. with respect to our intellectual property under the loan and security agreement could further limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. Our failure to raise Page 29 of 70 capital as and when needed could have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategies. The amount and timing of our future financing requirements will depend on many factors, including: the size, timing and type of the nonclinical and clinical studies that we decide to pursue in the development of our product candidates, including plazomicin; the type, number, costs and results of the product candidate development programs which we are pursuing or may choose to pursue in the future; the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities; the costs associated with developing a plazomicin IVD assay to support therapeutic drug monitoring; the timing of, and costs involved in, seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, including the preparation of a NDA for plazomicin, and any supplemental applications thereto; our ability to enter into additional collaboration, licensing or other arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements; the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; the resources we devote to marketing, and, if approved, commercializing our product candidates; the scope, progress, expansion, and costs of manufacturing our product candidates; our ability to enter into additional government contracts, or other collaborative agreements, to support the development of our product candidates and development efforts; and the costs associated with being a public company. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments as included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the SEC on March 15, 2016, except as noted below: We received an additional $10 million term loan from Solar Capital Ltd. See Note 7 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for more information. We entered into a new lease agreement to lease office, laboratory and research and development space for our new principal executive offices that includes future minimum lease payments of $32.0 million through August 2027. See Note 9 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for more information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.Item1. Financial Statements. Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 3 of 68 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 4 of 68 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 5 of 68 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 6 of 68 Achaogen, Inc. March 31, 2017 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Organization and Basis of Presentation and Consolidation Achaogen, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiary, the "Company") is a late-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterial treatments against multi-drug resistant gram-negative infections. The Company is developing plazomicin, its lead product candidate, for the treatment of bacterial infections due to multi-drug resistant Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). The Company's Phase 3 study of plazomicin in the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ("cUTI") and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. In addition, the Company's Phase 3 study of plazomicin, the CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae) trial, which is a resistant pathogen-specific trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with infections due to CRE. The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 2002 and commenced operations in 2004. Since commencing operations in 2004, the Company has devoted substantially all its resources to identifying and developing its product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these operations. Reclassifications The change in derivative liability for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 has been reclassified to be included in the change in warrant and derivative liabilities to conform to the current year's presentation. Such reclassifications did not impact the Company's net loss or financial position. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP can be condensed or omitted. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the Company's annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, which are necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial information. The results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year or any other future period. The balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2016 included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. In May 2017, the Company entered into an agreement with the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation (the "Gates Foundation") to discover drug candidates against gram-negative pathogens intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "Grant Agreement"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Gates Foundation awarded the Company up to approximately $10.5 million in grant funding over a three-year research term, of which approximately $3.2 million will be advanced to the Company within 15 days after signing (the "Advance Funds"). Concurrently with the Grant Agreement, the Company entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with the Gates Foundation, pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell 407,331 shares of its redeemable common stock to the Gates Foundation in a private placement at a purchase price per share equal to $24.55, for gross proceeds to the Company of $10.0 million ("Gates Investment"). In connection with the Grant Agreement and the Gates Investment, the Company entered into a strategic relationship with the Gates Foundation (the "Letter Agreement"). Under the terms of the Letter Agreement, the Gates Investment and Advanced Funds may only be used to conduct mutually agreed upon work, including the scale up of the Company's platform technology to launch a product intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "NSP"). Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, the Company agreed to make the NSP available and accessible in certain developing countries and to grant the Gates Foundation a non-exclusive license to commercialize selected drug candidates in specified developing countries, which may only be exercised in the event of certain defaults as described in the Letter Agreement (the "Global Access"). The Global Access will continue in effect until the earlier of 25 years from the closing of the Gates Investment or 7 years following the termination of all funding provided by the Gates Foundation; provided, that the Global Page 7 of 68 Access will continue for any products or services developed with funding provided by the Gates Foundation which cont inue to be developed or available in certain developing countries. On December 19, 2016, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of common stock made under a prospectus supplement and related prospectus pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-203282) filed on April 7, 2015 (the "Shelf Registration Statement"). This offering resulted in the sale of 7,475,000 shares, at a price to the public of $13.50 per share, including the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 975,000 shares of common stock. The Company received net proceeds from the offering of $94.6 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. On June 3, 2016, the Company sold 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock pursuant to Securities Purchase Agreement (the &quot;Purchase Agreement&quot;) for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million and aggregate net proceeds of $25.1 million, after deducting the issuance costs, in connection with a private placement financing transaction (the &quot;Private Placement&quot;). The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 per share and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. On April 7, 2015, the Company filed the Shelf Registration Statement, declared effective by the SEC on April 21, 2015, covering the offering of up to $150.0 million of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, purchase contracts and/or units. The Shelf Registration Statement included a prospectus covering the offering, issuance and sale of up to $30.0 million of shares of our common stock from time to time in an &quot;at-the-market&quot; (&quot;ATM&quot;) equity offering pursuant to a sales agreement with Cowen and Company, LLC. As of March 31, 2017, the Company had sold 1,105,549 shares pursuant to its ATM equity offering program at a weighted-average price of $4.82 per share for aggregate offering proceeds of $5.3 million and aggregate net proceeds of $5.1 million, after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations every year since its inception. As of March 31, 2017, the Company had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $132.0 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $280.5 million. Management expects that, based on its current operating plans, the Company's existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of March 31, 2017 will be sufficient to fund its current planned operations for at least the next twelve months from the issuance of these financial statements. Management plans to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing arrangements, government contracts, and/or third party collaboration funding in the future to fund its operations, including the commercial launch of plazomicin. However, there can be no assurance that such funding sources will be available at terms acceptable to the Company or at all. If the Company is unable to raise additional funding to meet its working capital needs, it will be forced to delay or reduce the scope of its research programs and/or limit or cease its operations. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not reflect any adjustments relating to the recoverability and reclassification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to clinical trial accruals, fair value of liabilities, common stock and stock-based awards and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities. Short-term investments consist of available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. Based upon the borrowing rates (which is a Level 2 input) currently available to the Company for loans with similar terms, the Company believes the carrying amount of the loan payable approximates its fair value. The warrant and derivative liabilities are recorded at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value recorded in the Company's statements of operations. Page 8 of 68 Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents include only securities having a maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, cash and cash equivalents consisted of bank deposits, cash, commercial paper, cash repurchase agreement investments and investments in money market funds. Short-term Investments Short-term investments consist of debt securities with maturities greater than three months, but less than one year from the date of acquisition, and are classified as available for sale. Short-term investments are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of net unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities in the Company's consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. The amortized cost of debt securities reflects amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of purchase discounts to date, which are included in interest income. The Company reviews all of its marketable securities on a regular basis to evaluate whether any security has experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. Restricted Cash At March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had restricted cash of $377,000. The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheet that sum to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands): The restricted cash, which consists of money market accounts with one of the Company's financial institutions, serves as collateral for the letters of credit provided as security deposits under the Company's facility leases. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, $127,000 of restricted cash is classified as current assets and relates to the current facility lease that expires on April 14, 2017. Warrant Liability On June 3, 2016, the Company issued warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock in connection with the Private Placement. Each warrant has an exercise price of $3.66 per share and is exercisable for five years from the date of issuance. The Company accounts for these warrants as a liability instrument measured at estimated fair value. The initial fair value of the warrants was determined using a calibration model that involved using the Black-Scholes Pricing Model (&quot;Black-Scholes&quot;), which requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of the Company's common stock and remaining term of the warrants. The warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date, using Black-Scholes, with any changes in the fair value of the outstanding warrants recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Segment Reporting Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise about which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision maker in making decisions regarding resource allocation and assessing performance. The Company has one operating segment. Customer Concentration For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company's revenue was generated solely from funding pursuant to U.S. government contracts, and accordingly all contracts receivable relate to funding from U.S. government contracts. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a significant concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited in checking and money market accounts at one financial institution with balances that generally exceed federally insured limits. Management believes that the financial institution is financially sound, and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to this financial institution. The Company's investment policy limits investments to certain types of debt securities issued by the U.S. government, its agencies and institutions with Page 9 of 68 investment-grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents or issuing the debt securities. As of March31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had not experienced any credit losses in such accounts or investments. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when: (i) evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) fees are fixed or determinable, (iii) services have been delivered, and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. The Company currently generates revenue entirely from government contracts. Government contracts are agreements that provide the Company with payments for certain types of expenditures in return for research and development activities over a contractually-defined period. Revenue from government contracts is recognized in the period during which the related costs are incurred and the related services are rendered, provided that the applicable conditions under the government contracts have been met. Costs of contract revenue are recorded as a component of operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statement of operations. Funds received from third parties under contract arrangements are recorded as revenue if the Company is deemed to be the principal participant in the contract arrangements because the activities under the contracts are part of the Company's development programs. If the Company is not the principal participant, the funds from contracts are recorded as a reduction to research and development expense. Contract funds received are not refundable and are recognized when the related qualified research and development costs are incurred and when there is reasonable assurance that the funds will be received. Funds billed and received in advance are recorded as deferred revenue. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses include certain payroll and personnel expenses; laboratory supplies; consulting costs; external contract research and development expenses; and allocated overhead, including rent, equipment depreciation and utilities, and relate to both Company-sponsored programs as well as costs incurred pursuant to collaboration agreements and government contracts. The Company estimates preclinical study and clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and clinical research organizations that conduct and manage preclinical studies and clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company estimates the time period over which services will be performed and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and other current assets and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . This guidance simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes in a classified balance sheet to require that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent and is effective for annual reporting periods, including interim reporting periods, beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted this ASU effective January 1, 2017. The adoption had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases , which, for operating leases, requires a lessee to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in its balance sheet. The standard also requires a lessee to recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term, on a generally straight-line basis. This ASU will be effective for the Company in fiscal year 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-06, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) - Contingent Put and Call Options in Debt Instruments . This ASU clarifies the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to their debt hosts. An entity performing the assessment under the amendments in this Update is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision sequence. This guidance should be applied on a modified retrospective basis to existing debt instruments as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the amendments are effective. This ASU is effective beginning January 1, 2017 and the Company assessed that the effects of this ASU had no impact on its consolidated financial statements. Page 10 of 68 In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718) - Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . This ASU simplifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classifica tion on the statement of cash flows. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. This ASU will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods. The Company adopted this ASU effective January 1, 2017 and elected to account for forfeitures on an estimated basis. The adoption had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which provides a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance. This ASU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This ASU also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. The Company has not yet finalized its preliminary assessment and conclusions on how the adoption of this ASU will affect its current policies related to revenue recognition. The Company expects to adopt the new revenue standard on January 1, 2018, and through the remainder of 2017, will continue to assess the potential impact of adopting this new standard on any current, new or significantly modified customer contracts. In subsequent quarters, the Company will finalize its selection of transition methods and complete its evaluation of additional disclosures that may be required upon adoption of the new standard. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during the period. For purposes of this calculation, preferred stock, stock options, restricted stock units and warrants are considered to be common stock equivalents and are only included in the calculation of diluted net loss per share when their effect is dilutive. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, all potentially dilutive securities outstanding have been excluded from the computations of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding because such securities have an antidilutive impact due to losses reported. Below are listed the potentially dilutive securities outstanding as of March 31, 2017 and 2016: Warrants outstanding as of March 31, 2017 have a weighted-average exercise price of $3.78. 3. Fair Value Measurements Financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value. The carrying amount of certain financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair values. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or an exit price that would be paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements as follows: Level 1 : Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 : Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Page 11 of 68 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires management to make judgments and consider factors specific to the asset or liability. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities are classified as Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. The Company's Level 2 valuations of marketable securities are generally derived from independent pricing services based upon quoted prices in active markets for similar securities, with prices adjusted for yield and number of days to maturity, or based on industry models using data inputs, such as interest rates and prices that can be directly observed or corroborated in active markets. In certain cases, where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3 within the valuation hierarchy. Level 3 liabilities that are measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis consist of a derivative liability in connection with loan payable and a warrant liability in connection with the Private Placement. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, financial assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis and classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as described above were as follows (in thousands): Page 12 of 68 All available-for-sale securities held as of March 31, 2017 had maturities less than one year from the date of acquisition. There were no sales of available-for-sale securities in any of the periods presented. The carrying value of debt securities that were in unrealized loss positions totaled $63.9 million as of March 31, 2017. The Company has determined that (i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments, and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three-month period ended March 31, 2017. Pursuant to the loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. (see Note 7), the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement under which the Company agreed to pay $1.0 million in cash (the &quot;Success Fee&quot;) if the Company obtains approval to market plazomicin from the Food and Drug Administration (the &quot;FDA&quot;). If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee, approximately $602,000 at December 31, 2016, is recorded as a derivative liability and included in other long-term liabilities on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability as of March 31, 2017 increased by $20,000 to $622,000 from December 31, 2016, as a result of the time value of money, which is presented as change in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017. The fair value of the derivative liability was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, and is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs. Specifically, the key assumptions included in the calculation of the estimated fair value of the derivative instrument include: i) the Company's estimates of both the probability and timing of a potential $1.0 million payment to Solar Capital Ltd. upon FDA approval to market plazomicin, and ii) a discount rate of 13% which was derived from the Company's estimated cost of debt. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability is most sensitive to the probability of FDA approval. Should the probability of FDA approval change by 5%, the fair value of the derivative liability as of March 31, 2017 would change by approximately $37,000. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2017, there was no change to the key assumptions used in the calculation of the estimated fair value. Any changes in the estimated fair values are presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Page 13 of 68 Pursuant to the Private Placement (see Note 2), the Company issued warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.66. The Company classified these warrants as a liability measured at fair value using Black-Scholes. Under certain entity conditions, the holder of a warrant may require the Company to settle the warrant in cash at its estimated fair value using Black-Scholes. On the closing date of the Private Placem ent, June 3, 2016, the $2.6 million initial estimated fair value of the warrants was recorded as a warrant liability on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. At March31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the estimated fair values of the warrant s were approximately $27.3 million and $13.9 million, respectively. The change in the estimated fair value is primarily due to the increase in the Company's stock price and is included in changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's conde nsed consolidated statements of operations. In February 2017, certain holders of these warrants exercised warrants to purchase 78,585 shares of common stock. The Company received $0.3 million in proceeds from these warrant exercises. The Company is required to record the exercised warrants at its estimated fair value at the time of exercise, with any change included in changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company estimated the fair value of these exercised warrants at their respective exercise dates to be $1.5 million, an increase of $1.4 million from its initial valuation, at June 3, 2016, of $0.1 million, primarily due to an increase in the Company's stock price. The fair value of the warrant liability is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs, including the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of the Company's common stock and remaining term of the warrants. At March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the estimated fair values of the warrants were determined using Black-Scholes with the following assumptions: The expected volatility is based on the Company's expected volatility. The expected term is based on the remaining life of the warrants. The risk-free interest rate is obtained from the yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities for a period equal to the expected term of the warrants. The dividend yield is zero because the Company has never paid cash dividends and has no present intention to pay cash dividends. Should the share price change by 5%, the fair value of the warrant liability as of March 31, 2017 would change by approximately $1.5 million. Changes in the fair value of recurring measurements included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations and were as follows for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Prepaids and other current assets Prepaids and other current assets consisted of the following (in thousands): Page 14 of 68 Property and Equipment, net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization expense for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was $113,000 and $121,000, respectively. Accrued Liabilities Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. License and Collaboration Agreements Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. In April 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with its collaboration partner, Microgenics Corporation ("Thermo Fisher"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., to develop and commercialize an assay to support plazomicin. If approved, the Company and Thermo Fisher plan to have a commercial assay for plazomicin available at launch to enable health care professionals to make decisions on safe and efficacious doses of plazomicin. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the Company is required to make milestone payments with respect to research, development, regulatory and commercialization milestones (if any). All such milestone payments may total, in aggregate, up to but no more than $6,453,000. In further consideration of this agreement, in the event of a successful commercialization of the assay, the Company is required to pay a minimum threshold annual revenue to Thermo Fisher. As of March 31, 2017, the Company has incurred $1,433,000 in milestone payments and the cost was fully recorded as research and development expense. The Company recorded $915,000 and zero of research and development expense during the three-month periods ending March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, under this agreement. In February 2017, the Company announced the achievement of a strategic milestone in its ongoing collaboration to develop an assay enabling therapeutic drug management of plazomicin. Crystal Biosciences, Inc. In May 2016, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Crystal Biosciences, Inc. ("Crystal"). Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, the Company and Crystal agreed to collaborate on the discovery of monoclonal antibodies against multiple targets. Crystal agreed to conduct the initial discovery work with its antibody platform and the Company has the right to develop and commercialize the antibodies discovered through this collaboration. The Company is required to provide signing and milestone payments with respect to research, development, regulatory and commercialization milestones (if any). All such milestone payments may total, in aggregate, up to but no more than $20,550,000. The upfront signing fee, technology access fees and research funding were recorded as research and development expense. This collaboration and license agreement also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit percentage of annual worldwide net sales of the commercialized product. Ionis Pharmaceuticals In January 2006, the Company entered into a license agreement with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Ionis"). Ionis granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide license with the right to grant and authorize sublicenses related to the research and development of Page 15 of 68 aminoglycoside products. As an up-front fee, the Company issued 97,402 share s of Series A convertible preferred stock at a fair value of $15.40 per share. This license fee of $1,500,000 was recorded as research and development expense in 2006. In further consideration of this license, and in accordance with the terms of the agreem ent, the Company is required to make milestone payments with respect to development, regulatory and commercialization milestones, and to pay a percentage of revenue received from sublicensees (if any). All such milestone and sublicense revenue payments may total, in the aggregate, up to but no more than $19,500,000 for the first product and $9,750,000 following the second product commercialized under the agreement with Ionis. The Company is also required to pay additional milestone payments of up to $20,000 ,000 in the aggregate upon the first achievement of specified threshold levels of annual net sales of all aminoglycoside products in a calendar year. The license agreement also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit perce ntage of annual worldwide net sales of all licensed products, including, if applicable, plazomicin. Through March 31, 2017, the Company had compensated Ionis $7,000,000 in connection with the first three milestones under the license for the first aminoglycoside product candidate. As of March 31, 2017, the Company had no outstanding payments due under the agreement. 6. Government Contracts Certain of the Company's drug discovery and development activities are performed under contracts with U.S. government agencies. Management has determined that the Company is the principal participant in the following contract arrangements, and, accordingly, the Company records amounts earned under the arrangements as revenue. Costs incurred under revenue contracts are recorded as operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statements of operations. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority In August 2010, the Company was awarded a contract with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA") for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. The original contract included committed funding of $27,600,000 for the first two years of the contract and subsequent options exercisable by BARDA to provide additional funding. In September 2012, BARDA exercised an additional $15,798,000 contract option (&quot;Option 1&quot;), which increased the total contract committed funding to $43,398,000 through March 2014. In April 2013, the Company was awarded an additional $60,410,000 under the contract to support its Phase 3 clinical trial of plazomicin (&quot;Option 2&quot;) to increase the total committed funding under this contract to $103,808,000. On May 26, 2016, the Company was awarded an additional $20 million (&quot;Option 3&quot;) under the contract to support its Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin. This brings the total committed funding under the contract to $123,808,000. The Company recorded contract revenue of $7,114,000 and $5,270,000 under this agreement during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (&quot;NIAID&quot;) for $1.5 million committed through June 30, 2016, with total funding of up to $4.5 million available if all options are exercised under the contract. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added to the awarded funding and the total potential funding was increased to $5.0 million. In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise an option which increased the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018, with total potential funding remaining at $5.0 million if the remaining option is exercised. In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one-year, $407,000 grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. In July 2015, NIAID extended the grant term through July 31, 2016. The Company recorded contract revenue of $349,000 and $579,000 under these agreements during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 7. Borrowings Solar Capital Ltd. Loan Agreement On August 5, 2015, the Company entered into a loan and security agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Solar Capital Ltd. (the "Lender") pursuant to which the Lender agreed to make available to the Company term loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million with a maturity date of August 5, 2019. An initial $15.0 million term loan was funded at closing on August 5, 2015, and a second $10.0 million term loan was funded on June 20, 2016. Borrowings under the term loans bear interest per annum at 6.99% plus the greater of 1% or the one-month LIBOR. The Company is currently required to make interest-only payments on the term loans through August 2017, and beginning on September 1, 2017 the Company is required to make monthly payments of interest plus equal monthly payments of principal over a term of 24 months. The Loan Agreement requires collateral by a security interest in Page 16 of 68 all of the Company's assets except intellectual property (which is subject to a negative pledge) and contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, and also includes standard events of default, including payment defaults. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, a default interest rate of an additional 4% may be applie d to the outstanding loan balances, and the Lender may declare all outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and take such other actions as set forth in the Loan Agreement. There were no financial covenants attached to the loan. The Loan Agreemen t included a closing fee of$250,000which was paid at closing, and the Company is obligated to pay a fee equal to 8% of the term loans funded upon the earliest to occur of the maturity date, the acceleration of the term loans or the voluntary prepayment o f the term loans. The cost of these fees is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. The Company may voluntarily prepay all, but not less than all, of the outstanding term loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains customary events of default that entitle the Lender to cause the Company's indebtedness under the Loan Agreement to become immediately due and payable. On August 5, 2015, pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement with the Lender under which the Company agreed to pay the Lender $1.0 million if the Company obtains FDA approval to market plazomicin. If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee at the date of issuance of approximately $356,000 was recorded as a debt discount and is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. Future principal debt payments on the currently outstanding term loan are payable as follows (in thousands): The obligation includes a final fee of $2,000,000, representing 8% of the term loan currently funded, which accretes over the life of the loan as interest expense. The Company recorded interest expense related to the loan of $0.7 million and $0.4 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 8. Stockholders' Equity On April 7, 2015, the Company entered into a Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which the Company may issue and sell shares of its common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of March 31, 2017, the Company had sold 1,105,549 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement, at a weighted-average price of approximately $4.82 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.3 million and net proceeds of $5.1 million after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. As of March 31, 2017, $24.7 million of common stock remained available to be sold under the Sales Agreement, subject to certain conditions specified therein. On June 3, 2016, the Company sold 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreement for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million in the Private Placement. The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. The Company's Chief Operating Officer, a related party, participated in the Private Placement by purchasing 141,453 shares of common stock and a warrant to purchase 35,363 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $0.5 million. Issuance costs of $0.3 million were offset against equity as a reduction from gross proceeds. At the close of the Private Placement, the estimated fair values of the common stock and warrants issued were $22.9 million and $2.6 million, respectively. At March 31, 2017, using Black-Scholes, the Company estimated the fair value of the remaining warrants outstanding to be $27.3 million and recorded a charge of $11.3 million and $13.4 million, for the increase in the liability, in the condensed consolidated statements of operations, for the year ended December 31, 2016 and three-month period ended March 31, 2017 , respectively. Page 17 of 68 Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (the &quot;2014 Plan&quot;), which became effective as of March 11, 2014. Under the 2014 Plan, the Company may grant incentive stock options (&quot;ISOs&quot;), nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units (&quot;RSUs&quot;) and other stock-based awards for the purchase of that number of shares of common stock. Effective, January 1, 2017, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 1,425,522 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the 2014 Plan. As of March 31, 2017, 909,040 shares were available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan. Under the 2014 Plan, the terms of stock award agreements, including vesting requirements, are determined by the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the 2014 Plan. Options granted by the Company typically vest over a four year period and the exercise price may not be less than fair market value on the date of grant. Certain of the options are subject to acceleration of vesting in the event of certain change of control transactions. Options granted under the 2014 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan In December 2014, the Company adopted a 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan (the &quot;Inducement Plan&quot;). The Inducement Plan is designed to comply with the inducement exemption contained in Nasdaq's Rule 5635(c)(4), which provides for the grant of non-qualified stock options, RSUs, restricted stock awards, performance awards, dividend equivalents, deferred stock awards, deferred stock units, stock payment and stock appreciation rights to a person not previously an employee or director of the Company, or following a bona fide period of non-employment, as an inducement material to the individual's entering into employment with the Company. As of March 31, 2017, a total of 1,600,000 shares of common stock have been authorized under the Inducement Plan, including the additional 450,000 shares that became available resulting from an amendment adopted by the board of directors as of February 22, 2017. As of March 31, 2017, 356,588 shares were available for future issuance under the Inducement Plan. 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which became effective as of March 11, 2014. Effective, January 1, 2017, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 178,190 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the ESPP. As of March 31, 2017, 225,261 shares of common stock have been issued to employees participating in the ESPP, and 461,406 shares are available for issuance under the ESPP. Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan The Company's Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan (the &quot;2003 Plan&quot;), provided for the granting of incentive and non-statutory stock options to employees, directors and consultants at the discretion of the board of directors. The Company granted options under its 2003 Plan until January 2014 and it was terminated as to future awards in March 2014, although it continues to govern the terms of options that remain outstanding under the 2003 Plan. Options granted under the 2003 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. Options granted under the 2003 Plan vest over periods determined by the board of directors, generally over four years. The 2003 Plan allows for early exercise of certain options prior to vesting. Upon termination of employment, the unvested shares are subject to repurchase at the original exercise price. Stock options granted or modified after March 21, 2002, that are subsequently exercised for cash prior to vesting, are not deemed to be issued until those shares vest. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 there were no shares subject to repurchase relating to the early exercise of options. In connection with the board of directors' and stockholders' approval of the 2014 Plan, all remaining shares available for future awards under the 2003 Plan were transferred to the 2014 Plan, and the 2003 Plan was terminated as to future awards. As of March 31, 2017, a total of 862,720 shares of common stock are subject to options outstanding under the 2003 plan, which shares will become available under the 2014 Plan to the extent the options are forfeited or lapse unexercised. Page 18 of 68 The following table summarizes sto ck option activity under the stock plans, excluding the ESPP, and related information: Stock-based compensation expense recognized for stock options granted to employees and non-employee directors in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations was as follows (in thousands): Stock based compensation expense for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 includes $0.7 million of expense that relate to stock options and restricted stock units held by the former Chief Medical Officer, which were modified upon his resignation in March 2017, including $0.7 million related to such modifications. As of March 31, 2017, approximately $20,534,000 of total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.37 years. The estimated grant date fair value of employee stock options with time-based vesting terms was calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, based on the following assumptions: Stock Options Granted to Non-Employees During the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company did not grant any stock options to non-employees. The Company recorded non-employee stock-based compensation expense of approximately $219,000 and zero for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company measures the estimated fair value of the award for each period until the award is fully vested. The non-employee stock-based compensation expense, during the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 , was estimated using Black-Scholes with the following assumptions: Page 19 of 68 Restricted Stock Units Granted to Employees During the three-month period ended March 31, 2017, the Company granted RSUs to employees to receive 288,064 shares of common stock under the Company's stock plans with a weighted-average estimated grant-date fair value of $21.90 per share. RSUs generally vest annually over a 4-year service period and vesting is contingent on continued service. As of March 31, 2017, there were unrecognized compensation costs of $8,401,000 related to outstanding RSUs, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.33 years. A summary of RSU activity is as follows: Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units Granted to Employees that Contain Performance Conditions During the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company granted options to purchase an aggregate of 142,200 and 199,750 shares of common stock, respectively, and 25,800 and 47,425 RSUs, respectively, that vest upon the achievement of market-based common stock price targets. The fair value was estimated at the grant date using a Monte-Carlo simulation model ("Monte-Carlo"), which requires the use of a range of assumptions. The expected life assumption is not used in Monte-Carlo, but the output of the model indicates an expected term. The associated stock-based compensation expense is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the implicit service period (expected time to vest) derived from Monte-Carlo. The fair value of awards granted to employees was estimated using Monte-Carlo with the following assumptions: 9. Commitments Commercial Manufacturing Agreement In March 2017, the Company entered into a commercial validation and manufacturing agreement (the "Manufacturing Agreement") with Hovione Limited ("Hovione"). Under the Manufacturing Agreement, Hovione has agreed to complete the validation program to validate and scale up the Company's technology to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient for plazomicin (the "Product") and supply the Product to the Company. The Manufacturing Agreement has an initial term of seven years after the first delivery of the Product. Subject to the successful completion of the validation program and the Company's launch of plazomicin, the Company has agreed to purchase a minimum quantity of the Product from Hovione depending on the Company's requirements and the period of time following approval by the FDA. For the first three years following approval of plazomicin by the FDA, the Company is required to purchase at least 80% of its required quantity from Hovione. Following the initial three years after FDA approval, the Company is required to purchase between 40% and 66% of its required quantity from Hovione, depending on the amounts required during any such fiscal year. Contingent upon FDA's approval of plazomicin, the Company has minimum annual purchase commitments from Hovione, beginning in 2020 through 2024. In connection with the Manufacturing Agreement, the Company executed certain work plans to carry out the validation and commercial manufacturing of plazomicin (the "Work Plans"). The Work Plans obligate the Company to make an aggregate amount of approximately $6.2 million in nonrefundable advance payments, of which $1.5 million was for the reservation of facilities and Page 20 of 68 resources, plus procurement of long lead raw materials, paid in full under a separate agreement execu ted in July 2015. Such advance payments are initially capitalized as prepaid and other current assets and will be recognized as research and development expenses as goods are delivered and/or services are performed. The Company assesses such prepaid and ot her current assets for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or may not provide future economic benefits. Further, the Work Plans include certain terms that require the Company to compensa te Hovione if it chooses to cancel the Work Plans ("Cancellation Clause"). As of March 31, 2017, $9.8 million is committed under the Cancellation Clause and the total aggregate amount of potential commitments, if all the services are rendered by Hovione, i s approximately $28.1 million. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company has recorded approximately $4.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively as prepaid and other current assets and, during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2 016, has recognized $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, as research and development expenses, related to the Work Plans. In December 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with Hovione to procure certain long lead raw materials to be used in the commercial production of plazomicin (the "Raw Material Agreement"). The Raw Material Agreement includes $1.2 million in nonrefundable advance payments. As of March, 31 2017, the Company has recorded $1.2 million of these nonrefundable advance payments as prepaid and other current assets. Facilities Lease Obligation The Company leased its former principal executive offices in South San Francisco under a non-cancelable lease agreement that expired on April 14, 2017. In August 2016, the Company entered into a non-cancelable agreement (the &quot;Lease&quot;) to lease approximately 47,000 square feet of office, laboratory and research and development space for the Company's new principal executive offices ("Premises") in South San Francisco. The Lease commenced in March 2017, after the substantial completion of certain improvements (&quot;Tenant Improvements&quot;) required under the Lease, set to expire in August 2027 (&quot;Lease Term&quot;), and the Company moved into the Premises in April 2017. The Lease contains expansion options and an option to extend the Lease Term for an additional 5 years. Base rent for the first year of the Lease Term is approximately $2.7 million, with an increase in annual base rent of approximately 3.5% in each subsequent year of the Lease Term. The Lease also provides for rent abatement of approximately $1.8 million for the first year of the Lease Term. The Company is entitled to a one-time improvement allowance of $5.7 million for the Tenant Improvements (the &quot;Allowance&quot;). The Landlord disburses the Allowance for the Tenant Improvement on behalf of the Company. As of March 31, 2017, the Company has recorded approximately $5.9 million within construction-in-progress under property, plant and equipment, net and other current liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet related to costs incurred under the Allowance. At its election, the Company is also entitled to an additional improvements allowance of $0.9 million (&quot;Additional Allowance&quot;). In the event the Company elects to use the Additional Allowance, the base rent will be increased as calculated in the Lease. Further, the Company had a deposit of $250,000 included in long-term restricted cash as of March 31, 2017, restricted from withdrawal and held in a money market account with one of the Company's financial institutions in the form of collateral for a letter of credit held as security for the Lease. Future minimum lease payments under the operating leases as of March 31, 2017 are as follows (in thousands): The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the non-cancelable lease period. Rent expense was $211,000 and $146,000 for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 10. Subsequent Events In May 2017, the Company entered into an agreement with the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation (the "Gates Foundation") to discover drug candidates against gram-negative pathogens intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "Grant Agreement"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Gates Foundation awarded the Company up to approximately $10.5 million in grant funding over a three-year research term, of which approximately $3.2 million will be advanced to the Company within 15 days after signing (the "Advance Funds"). The Advance Funds are replenished by the Gates Foundation each calendar year, or sooner, following the Company's submission of a progress report, including expenses incurred for the research activities. Under certain conditions, as described in the Page 21 of 68 Grant Agreement, the Gates Foundation may terminate the Grant Agreement and the Company is obligated to return to the Gates Foundation any unused portion of the Advance Funds. Concurrently with the Grant Agreement, the Company entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with the Gates Foundation, pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell 407,331 shares of its redeemable common stock (the "Shares") to the Gates Foundation in a private placement at a purchase price per share equal to $24.55, for gross proceeds to the Company of $10.0 million ("Gates Investment"). In connection with the Grant Agreement and the Gates Investment, the Company entered into a strategic relationship with the Gates Foundation (the "Letter Agreement"). Under the terms of the Letter Agreement, the Advan ced Funds and the Gates Investment may only be used to conduct mutually agreed upon work, including the scale up of the Company's platform technology to launch a product intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "NSP"). If the Company defaults in its obligation to conduct certain mutually-agreed upon work or use the proceeds from the Gates Investment as described in the Letter Agreement, or otherwise triggers certain other events of default as described in the Letter Agreement ("Charitable Default"), subject to a cure period, the Gates Foundation will have the right to request that (a) the Company redeem, or facilitate the purchase by a third party of, the Shares then held by the Gates Foundation at a price per share equal to the greater of (i) the fair market value of the common stock (if the Shares are freely tradable, the closing price of the Company's common stock on the trading day prior to the redemption or purchase, as applicable), or (ii) an amount equal to $24.55 plus a compounded annual return of 5% from the date of issuance of the Shares, or (b) if the Shares then held by the Gates Foundation are not freely tradeable, the Company register the resale of the Shares held by the Gates Foundation on an effective registration statement, subject to certain conditions and qualifications. Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, the Company agreed to make the NSP available and accessible in certain developing countries and to grant the Gates Foundation a non-exclusive license to commercialize selected drug candidates in specified developing countries, which may only be exercised in the event of a Charitable Default (the "Global Access"). The Global Access will continue in effect until the earlier of 25 years from the closing of the Gates Investment or 7 years following the termination of all funding provided by the Gates Foundation; provided, that the Global Access will continue for any products or services developed with funding provided by the Gates Foundation which continue to be developed or available in certain developing countries. Page 22 of 68 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "should," "estimate," or "continue," and similar expressions or variations. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in Part II Other Information, Item 1A. Risk Factors below and elsewhere in this report, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or anticipated results. The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q represent our views as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should, therefore, not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a late-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterial treatments against multi-drug resistant ("MDR") gram-negative infections. We are researching and developing plazomicin, our lead product candidate, for the treatment of serious bacterial infections, including complicated urinary tract infection ("cUTI"), blood stream infections and other infections due to MDR Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). In 2013, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention identified CRE as a "nightmare bacteria" and an immediate public health threat that requires "urgent and aggressive action" and in 2017 the World Health Organization identified CRE as a Global Priority 1 Pathogen: Critical Need for Research and Development of New Antibiotics. On December 12, 2016, we announced positive data from our two Phase 3 clinical trials for plazomicin. The first study, a Phase 3 trial of plazomicin for the treatment of patients with cUTI and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. The Phase 3 EPIC trial is a randomized, double blind, active controlled study in patients with cUTI and AP and allowed broad enrollment of patients with gram-negative infections. We reached agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") that this trial, with a 15% non-inferiority margin, comparing plazomicin to meropenem is acceptable as the single study required for potential approval. The first patient was enrolled in the Phase 3 EPIC trial in January 2016 and enrollment was closed in August 2016 with 609 patients. In the EPIC trial, plazomicin successfully met or exceeded the objective of non-inferiority compared to meropenem for the FDA-specified primary efficacy endpoints, and achieved superiority for the primary efficacy endpoints specified by the European Medicines Agency ("EMA"). Results for the FDA pre-specified composite endpoint of clinical cure and microbiological eradication in the microbiological modified intent-to-treat ("mMITT") population at Day 5 achieved statistical non-inferiority, and Test-of-Cure (Day ~17) achieved statistical superiority. Results for EMA-specified endpoints of microbiological eradication at the test-of-cure visit achieved statistical superiority in both the mMITT and microbiologically evaluable ("ME") populations. Plazomicin was generally well tolerated with no new safety concerns identified in the EPIC trial. The second study, our Phase 3 CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae) trial was a resistant pathogen trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with serious bacterial infections due to CRE. We closed enrollment in the CARE study in August 2016 with 69 patients, comprised of 39 patients enrolled in Cohort 1, comparing plazomicin to colistin-based therapy in patients with bloodstream infections or pneumonia due to CRE, and 30 patients in Cohort 2, a single arm cohort of plazomicin treatment in patients with serious infections due to CRE. In Cohort 1 of the CARE trial, a lower rate of mortality or serious disease-related complications was observed for plazomicin compared with colistin therapy. The safety profile of plazomicin was favorable to that of colistin in critically ill patients in the CARE trial. We plan to submit an NDA, which will include data from both the EPIC and CARE Phase 3 clinical trials, to the FDA in the second half of 2017, with a planned commercial launch of plazomicin in the United States in 2018, if our NDA is approved. We also plan to submit a Marketing Authorization Application to the EMA for plazomicin in 2018. In May 2017, we entered into an agreement with the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation (the "Gates Foundation") to discover drug candidates against gram-negative pathogens intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "Grant Agreement"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Gates Foundation awarded us up to approximately $10.5 million in grant funding over a three-year research term, of which approximately $3.2 million will be advanced to us within 15 days after signing (the "Advance Funds"). Concurrently with the Page 23 of 68 Grant Agreement, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with the Gates Foundation, pursuant to which we agreed to sell 407,331 shares of our redeemable common stock to the Gates Foundation in a privat e placement at a purchase price per share equal to $24.55, for gross proceeds to us of $10.0 million ("Gates Investment"). In connection with the Grant Agreement and Gates Investment, we entered into a strategic relationship with the Gates Foundation (the "Letter Agreement"). Under the terms of the Letter Agreement, the Gates Investment and Advanced Funds may only be used to conduct mutually agreed upon work, including the scale up of our platform technology to launch a product intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "NSP") . Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, we agreed to make the NSP available and accessible in certain developing countries and to grant the Gates Foundation a non-exclusive license to commercialize selected drug candidates in specified develo ping countries, which may only be exercised in the event of certain defaults as described in the Letter Agreement (the "Global Access"). The Global Access will continue in effect until the earlier of 25 years from the closing of the Gates Investment or 7 y ears following the termination of all funding provided by the Gates Foundation; provided, that the Global Access will continue for any products or services developed with funding provided by the Gates Foundation which continue to be developed or available in certain developing countries. In 2012, the FDA granted fast-track designation for the development and regulatory review of plazomicin to treat serious and life-threatening CRE infections. In 2014, plazomicin received Qualified Infectious Disease Product ("QIDP") designation from the FDA. The QIDP designation was created by the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now Act (the "GAIN Act"), which was part of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act and provides certain incentives for the development of new antibiotics, including eligibility for priority review and of the NDA extension by an additional five years of any existing market exclusivity the product may be granted upon approval. Our plazomicin program has been funded in part with a contract from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA") for up to $123.8 million and as of March 31, 2017, $0.1 million remained available from the funding committed under the BARDA contract. We have global commercialization rights to plazomicin, which has patent protection in the United States extending through at least 2031. Since commencing operations in 2004, we have devoted substantially all of our resources to identifying and developing our product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these functions. In addition to plazomicin, our research team is focused on discovering medicines with novel mechanisms of action for serious infections caused by gram-negative bacteria, including MDR Escherichia coli, MDR Klebsiella pneumoniae, MDR Pseudomonas aeruginosa and MDR Acinetobacter baumannii. We recently announced our orally-available antibacterial candidate, C-Scape, a combination of an approved -lactam and an approved -lactamase inhibitor. We believe that C-Scape has the potential to rapidly address a serious unmet need for an effective oral treatment for patients with cUTI, including AP, caused by ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae. We intend to begin a Phase 1 study outside the United States in the second quarter of 2017. We intend to initiate a single pivotal Phase 3 study in patients with cUTI, including AP, who are suitable for treatment with oral antibiotics, by the first half of 2018. We also have a program to discover and develop small molecule inhibitors of LpxC (an enzyme essential for the synthesis of the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria), which could be ready to file an investigational new drug application ("IND") as early as 2018. Our therapeutic antibody program is utilizing a built-for-purpose discovery platform to identify and develop monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of MDR bacterial infections. We are also pursuing small molecule research and development programs targeting other essential gram-negative enzymes. We are taking a multifaceted approach to identify new antibacterial agents through our research. In May 2016, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Crystal Biosciences, Inc. to identify and generate therapeutic antibodies against multiple novel targets. Since our inception, we have financed our operations with the proceeds from our initial public offering ("IPO") of our common stock, proceeds from the underwritten public offering of our common stock, proceeds from sales of our common stock through the use of our at-the-market ("ATM") equity offering program, funding under our contracts with government agencies, private placements of our equity securities and certain debt-related financing arrangements. Our plazomicin program is funded in part with a contract from BARDA. Our other programs are currently funded primarily with company funds, although we also received a contract for $4.4 million in 2015 from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID"), with additional funding of up to $0.6 million available if all options are exercised. Historically, our preclinical programs have received funding support from organizations in addition to the NIH, such as the U.S. Department of Defense and The Wellcome Trust, a global charitable foundation. We intend to continue to seek further collaborations with government agencies, non-profit foundations, and other research and development funding organizations to support our discovery efforts and advance the product candidates in our pipeline. On March 17, 2014, we completed our IPO of common stock. We sold 6,900,000 shares of our common stock, which included 900,000 shares issued as a result of the underwriters exercising their over-allotment option in full. We received cash proceeds of approximately $73.9 million from the IPO, net of underwriting commissions and related expenses. On April 7, 2015, we entered into the Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time Page 24 of 68 to time through an ATM equity offering program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of March 31, 2017, we had sold 1,105,549 shares under the Sales Agreement at an average price of $4.82 per share and we receiv ed aggregate cash proceeds of $5.1 million, after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. On August 5, 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd., pursuant to which Solar Capital Ltd. agreed to make available to us term loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million, $15.0 million of which was provided to us on August 5, 2015 and $10.0 million of which was provided to us on June 20, 2016. On May 26, 2016, BARDA exercised an additional option (&quot;Option 3&quot;) under its existing contract, and we were awarded an additional $20.0 million in contract funding. Option 3 also includes a no-cost extension of the period of performance for Option 1 to September 20, 2016, under the contract to support our Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin. The funding from Option 3 is focused on the Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial of plazomicin, the EPIC study, in cUTI. This brings the total committed funding under the contract to $123.8 million. On June 3, 2016, we sold 7,999,996 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of common stock pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement ("Purchase Agreement") for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million and aggregate net proceeds of $25.1 million, after deducting the issuance costs, in a private placement financing transaction (the &quot;Private Placement&quot;). The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. On December 19, 2016, we completed an underwritten public offering of common stock, which resulted in the sale of 7,475,000 shares, at a price of $13.50 per share to the public, including the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 975,000 shares of common stock. We received net proceeds from the offering of $94.6 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. We have never been profitable and have incurred net losses in each year since the commencement of our operations. Substantially all of our net losses have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and associated general and administrative costs. We expect to incur substantial losses from operations in the foreseeable future as we advance plazomicin and other product candidates through preclinical and clinical development, seek regulatory approval, and prepare for, if approved, commercialization. Management expects that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, will be sufficient to fund our current planned operations for at least the next twelve months from the issuance of these financial statements. We will be required to obtain further funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaboration and licensing arrangements or other sources to fund the commercial launch of plazomicin and continued progress with our research and development efforts. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We have no manufacturing facilities and all of our manufacturing activities are contracted out to third parties. Additionally, we currently utilize third-party clinical research organizations ("CROs") to carry out our clinical development and we do not yet have an established sales organization. We will need substantial additional funding to support our operating activities and adequate funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Financial Overview Contract Revenue We have derived all of our revenue to date from funding provided under U.S. government contracts in connection with the development of our product candidates. Our product candidates are still in clinical and preclinical development and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Other than this contract revenue from government funding, we do not expect to derive any revenue from any product candidates that we develop until we obtain regulatory approval and commercialize such products, which we do not expect will occur before 2018, if at all, or until such time that we potentially enter into collaboration agreements with third parties for the development and commercialization of such product candidates. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) . We have received funding for our lead product candidate, plazomicin, under a contract with BARDA, an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. Our BARDA contract provides for payments to us based on direct costs incurred and allowances for overhead, plus a fee, where applicable. The total committed funding under our BARDA contract is $123.8 million, including $20.0 million for Option 3, exercised by BARDA on May 26, 2016. The exercised option relates to the support of our Phase 3 EPIC study and the preparation and submission of an NDA to the FDA. Page 25 of 68 For the three-month periods ended March31, 2017 and 2016, tot al revenue recognized under the BARDA contract was $7.1 million and $5.3 million, respectively.Through March31, 2017, a total of $123.7 million under the BARDA contract was recorded as revenue, with $0.1 million remaining available from the funding comm itted under the contract. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one-year, $0.4 million grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. The contract was subsequently modified to extend through July 31, 2016. In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by NIAID for $1.5 million committed through September 30, 2016, with total funding of up to $4.5 million available if all options are exercised under the contract. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added to the awarded funding and the total potential funding was increased to $5.0 million. In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise an option which increased the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018, with total potential funding remaining at $5.0 million if the remaining option is exercised. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, total revenue recognized under the NIAID contracts was $0.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs associated with research, discovery and preclinical studies of potential new drug compounds, plus product development efforts related to clinical trials and materials manufacturing processes. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and include the following: expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations, investigative sites, and consultants that conduct our clinical trials and a substantial portion of our preclinical activities; employee and consultant-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and consulting fees; third-party supplier expenses including the cost of acquiring and manufacturing clinical trial and other materials; and facilities, depreciation and other allocated expenses, which include direct and allocated expenses for rent and maintenance of facilities, amortization or depreciation of leasehold improvements, equipment and laboratory supplies and other expenses. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for the foreseeable future related to our research and development activities as we continue research programs and the development of our product candidates. Further, we have incurred substantial research and development costs associated with our plazomicin program as our Phase 3 EPIC and CARE trials have completed patient enrollment. We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expenses in the future as we continue to support plazomicin development, including preparations to submit an NDA for plazomicin to the FDA. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist principally of personnel-related costs, professional fees for legal, consulting, audit and tax services, rent and other general operating expenses not otherwise included in research and development. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in future periods, reflecting an expanding infrastructure in preparation for commercialization of plazomicin, if approved. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our critical accounting policies and estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Page 26 of 68 During the three-month period ended March31, 2017, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies. Our critical accounting policies are desc ribed under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three-Month Periods Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Contract Revenue Contract revenue in each period related solely to funding pursuant to our government contracts. Contract revenue increased $1.7 million to $7.5 million in the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 from $5.8 million in the comparable period in 2016. This increase was primarily due to an increase in research and development services performed under our BARDA contract. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased $4.7 million to $18.6 million in the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 from $13.9 million in the comparable period in 2016. This was primarily due to increases of $5.4 million in personnel and facility related costs as net headcount increased by 37 employees in our research and development organization since March 2016, including $1.1 million for stock compensation expense, of which $0.7 million of expense relate to equity awards held by our former Chief Medical Officer that were modified in connection with his resignation in March 2017, $1.2 million in external expenses related to C-Scape, mainly attributed to start-up costs for our Phase 1 study, partially offset by a decrease of $1.9 million in the external expenses related to our plazomicin program, mainly attributable to the completion of the Phase 3 studies. We record research and development expenses by program where directly identifiable. In the table below, we have allocated indirect research and development costs based on time charged directly to programs by research and development employees. Indirect research and development costs include employee benefit expenses, employee time not charged directly to a program, laboratory supplies and expenses, and allocated facility expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $3.0 million to $6.8 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 from $3.8 million for the comparable period in 2016. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $2.0 million in personnel and facility related costs, including $0.7 million for stock compensation expense, as net headcount increased by 19 employees, an increase of $0.8 million in costs to prepare for registration and commercialization of plazomicin and $0.2 million in consulting and professional fees. Interest Expense Page 27 of 68 Interest expense increased $0.3 million to $0.7 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 from $0.4 m illion for the comparable period in 2016. The increase was a result of an additional $10.0 million of borrowings under the Solar Capital loan agreement in June 2016. Change in Warrant and Derivative Liabilities Change in warrant and derivative liabilities increased to $15.0 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 from nil for the comparable period in 2016. The increase is primarily due to the change in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability, which increased mainly due to the change in our stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $13.4 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 of $33.3 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $15.0 million for the revaluation of the warrant and derivative liabilities, $0.1 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.2 million for non-cash interest expense, $2.9 million for stock-based compensation, and a change in net operating assets and liabilities of $1.7 million. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable, accrued liabilities and prepaid expenses and other assets, as a result of commitments and deferred research and development costs related to our commercial validation and manufacturing for plazomicin, partially offset by a decrease in contract receivables. Net cash used in operating activities was $8.9 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 of $12.2 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $0.1 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.2 million for amortization of premium on short-term investments and $0.8 million for stock-based compensation and a change in net operating assets and liabilities of $2.1 million. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities partially offset by a decrease prepaid expenses and other assets, as a result of costs related to preparing for our Phase 3 EPIC trial and the timing of our payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $68.7 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017. The net cash used in investing activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 is primarily a result of purchases in excess of maturities of short-term investments of $67.5 million and purchases of property, plant and equipment of $1.2 million related to our move into new corporate headquarters and to facilitate our research and development activities. Net cash provided by investing activities was $8.0 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016. The net cash provided by investing activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 is primarily a result of maturities in excess of purchases of short-term investments of $8.3 million. Other uses of cash in both periods resulted from purchases of property, plant and equipment to facilitate our increased research and development activities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.8 million and zero for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The net cash provided by financing activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 includes $0.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of certain warrants issued from the Private Placement and $0.5 million from issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans. Page 28 of 68 Plan of Operations and Future Funding Requirements We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for research, development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. Specifically, we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with our clinical development of plazomicin and C-Scape and the advancement our research and development programs. Management expects that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of March 31, 2017 will be sufficient to fund our current planned operations for at least the next twelve months from the issuance of these financial statements. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial additional financing in the future to fund our operations, including enabling us to commercially launch plazomicin. We may obtain additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, a credit facility, government contracts and/or strategic collaborations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain debt financing may be limited by covenants we have made under our loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. and our pledge to Solar Capital Ltd. of substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, as collateral. The negative pledge in favor of Solar Capital Ltd. with respect to our intellectual property under the loan and security agreement could further limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed could have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategies. The amount and timing of our future financing requirements will depend on many factors, including: the size, timing and type of the nonclinical and clinical studies that we decide to pursue in the development of our product candidates, including plazomicin; the type, number, costs and results of the product candidate development programs which we are pursuing or may choose to pursue in the future; the rate of progress and cost of clinical trials we may commence, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities; the costs associated with developing a plazomicin IVD assay to support therapeutic drug monitoring; the timing of, and costs involved in, seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, including the preparation of a NDA for plazomicin, and any supplemental applications thereto; our ability to enter into additional collaboration, licensing or other arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements; the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; the resources we devote to marketing, and, if approved, commercializing our product candidates; the scope, progress, expansion, and costs of manufacturing our product candidates; our ability to enter into additional government contracts, or other collaborative agreements, to support the development of our product candidates and development efforts; and the costs associated with being a public company. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments as included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 14, 2017, except as noted below: In March 2017, we executed certain work plans with Hovione Limited ("Hovione") to carry out our validation and commercial manufacturing of plazomicin (the "Work Plans"). The Work Plans include certain terms that require us to compensate Hovione if we choose to cancel the Work Plans ("Cancellation Clause"). The total aggregate amount of potential commitments under the Work Plans is approximately $28.1 million, of which $9.8 million is committed under Page 29 of 68 the Cancellation Clause, as of March 31, 2017. See Note 9 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for more i nformation. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.Item1. Financial Statements. Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands except share and per share data) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 3 of 71 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands except share and per share data) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 4 of 71 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 5 of 71 Achaogen, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. Page 6 of 71 Achaogen, Inc. June 30, 2017 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Organization and Basis of Presentation and Consolidation Achaogen, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiary, the "Company") is a late-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterial treatments against multi-drug resistant gram-negative infections. The Company is developing plazomicin, its lead product candidate, for the treatment of bacterial infections due to multi-drug resistant Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). The Company's Phase 3 study of plazomicin in the treatment of patients with complicated urinary tract infections ("cUTI") and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. In addition, the Company's Phase 3 study of plazomicin, the CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae) trial, is a resistant pathogen-specific trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with infections due to CRE. The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 2002 and commenced operations in 2004. Since commencing operations in 2004, the Company has devoted substantially all its resources to identifying and developing its product candidates, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and providing general and administrative support for these operations. Basis of Presentation and Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP can be condensed or omitted. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the Company's annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, which are necessary for a fair statement of the Company's financial information. The results of operations for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full year or any other future period. The balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2016 included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Liquidity and Going Concern On May 31, 2017, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of 5,750,000 shares of its common stock at a price to the public of $22.50 per share, including the closing of the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 750,000 shares of common stock on June 9, 2017. The Company received net proceeds from the offering of $121.2 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. On May 4, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement with the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation (the "Gates Foundation") to discover drug candidates against gram-negative bacterial pathogens intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "Grant Agreement"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Gates Foundation awarded the Company up to approximately $10.5 million in grant funding ("Grant Funds") over a three-year research term, of which approximately $3.2 million was received in May 2017 (the "Advance Funds"). Concurrently with the Grant Agreement, the Company entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Gates Purchase Agreement") with the Gates Foundation, pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell 407,331 shares of its contingently redeemable common stock to the Gates Foundation in a private placement at a purchase price per share equal to $24.55, for gross proceeds to the Company of $10.0 million ("Gates Investment"). In connection with the Grant Agreement and the Gates Investment, the Company entered into a strategic relationship with the Gates Foundation (the "Letter Agreement"). Under the terms of the Letter Agreement, the Gates Investment and Grant Funds may only be used to conduct mutually agreed upon work, including the scale up of the Company's antibody platform technology to launch a product intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "NSP"). Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, the Company agreed to make the NSP available and accessible in certain developing countries and to grant the Gates Foundation a non-exclusive license to commercialize selected drug candidates in certain developing countries, which may only be exercised in the event of certain defaults as described in the Letter Agreement (the "Global Access Commitments"). The Global Access Commitments will continue in effect until the earlier Page 7 of 71 of 25 years from the closing o f the Gates Investment or 7 years following the termination of all funding provided by the Gates Foundation; provided, that the Global Access Commitments will continue for any products or services developed with funding provided by the Gates Foundation whi ch continue to be developed or available in certain developing countries. On December 19, 2016, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of 7,475,000 shares of its common stock at a price to the public of $13.50 per share, including the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 975,000 shares of common stock. The Company received net proceeds from the offering of $94.6 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. On June 3, 2016, the Company sold 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock pursuant to Securities Purchase Agreement (the &quot;Purchase Agreement&quot;) for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million and aggregate net proceeds of $25.1 million, after deducting the issuance costs, in connection with a private placement financing transaction (the &quot;Private Placement&quot;). The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 per share and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. On April 7, 2015, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the "2015 Shelf Registration Statement"), which included a prospectus covering the offering, issuance and sale of up to $30.0 million of shares of the Company's common stock from time to time in an &quot;at-the-market&quot; (&quot;ATM&quot;) equity offering pursuant to a sales agreement with Cowen and Company, LLC. As of June 30, 2017, the Company had sold 1,105,549 shares pursuant to its ATM equity offering program at a weighted-average price of $4.82 per share for aggregate offering proceeds of $5.3 million and aggregate net proceeds of $5.1 million, after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations every year since its inception. As of June 30, 2017, the Company had unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $230.3 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $306.5 million. Management expects that, based on its current operating plans, the Company's existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of June 30, 2017 will be sufficient to fund its current planned operations for at least the next twelve months from the issuance of these financial statements. Management plans to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing arrangements, government contracts, and/or third party collaboration funding in the future to fund its operations, including the commercial development of plazomicin. However, there can be no assurance that such funding sources will be available at terms acceptable to the Company or at all. If the Company is unable to raise additional funding to meet its working capital needs, it will be forced to delay or reduce the scope of its research programs and/or limit or cease its operations. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not reflect any adjustments relating to the recoverability and reclassification of assets and liabilities that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to clinical trial accruals, fair value of liabilities, common stock and stock-based awards and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, prepaid and other current assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities. Short-term investments consist of available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. Based upon the borrowing rates (which is a Level 2 input) currently available to the Company for loans with similar terms, the Company believes the carrying amount of the loan payable approximates its fair value. The warrant and derivative liabilities are recorded at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value recorded in the Company's statements of operations. Page 8 of 71 C ash and Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents include only securities having a maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, cash and cash equivalents consisted of bank deposits, cash, commercial paper, cash repurchase agreement investments and investments in government obligations money market funds. Short-term Investments Short-term investments consist of debt securities with maturities greater than three months, but less than one year from the date of acquisition, and are classified as available for sale. Short-term investments are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of net unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities in the Company's consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. The amortized cost of debt securities reflects amortization of purchase premiums and accretion of purchase discounts to date, which are included in interest income. The Company reviews all of its marketable securities on a regular basis to evaluate whether any security has experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. Restricted Cash At June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had restricted cash of $12.6 million and $0.4 million, respectively. The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheet that sum to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands): As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had $12.2 million and zero, respectively, of restricted cash related to the cash provided by the Gates Foundation, in connection with the Grant Agreement, Gates Purchase Agreement and Letter Agreement (see Note 1). As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had $0.4 million of restricted cash, of which $0.3 million relates to the current facility lease and $0.1 million relates to the previous facility lease that expired on April 14, 2017. Concurrently with the Grant Agreement, the Company entered into the Gates Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which the Company issued 407,331 shares of contingently redeemable common stock to the Gates Foundation for the Gates Investment (see Note 1). In addition, the Letter Agreement, among other things, restricts the Company's use of both the Grant Funds and the Gates Investment to expenditures, including an allocation of overhead and administrative expenses, that are reasonably attributable to the activities required to support the research projects funded by the Gates Foundation. As a result of such restrictions, as of June 30, 2017, the Company classified the unspent portions of the Grant Funds and Gates Investment, held at one of the Company's financial institutions, as restricted cash. The restricted cash related to the Company's leases, which consists of money market accounts with one of the Company's financial institutions, serves as collateral for the letters of credit provided as security deposits under the Company's facility leases and expire approximately 90 days from their respective lease terms. Warrant Liability On June 3, 2016, the Company issued warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock in connection with the Private Placement. Each warrant has an exercise price of $3.66 per share and is exercisable for five years from the date of issuance. The Company accounts for these warrants as a liability instrument measured at estimated fair value. The initial fair value of the warrants was determined using a calibration model that involved using the Black-Scholes Pricing Model (&quot;Black-Scholes&quot;), which requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of the Company's common stock and remaining term of the warrants. The warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date, using Black-Scholes, with any changes in the fair value of the outstanding warrants recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Segment Reporting Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise about which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision maker in making decisions regarding resource allocation and assessing performance. The Company has one operating segment. Page 9 of 71 Customer Concentration For the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company's revenue was generated from funding pursuant to U.S. government contracts and a non-profit foundation grant, and accordingly all contracts receivable relate to funding from U.S. government contracts and a non-profit foundation grant. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a significant concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited in checking and money market accounts at one financial institution with balances that generally exceed federally insured limits. Management believes that the financial institution is financially sound, and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to this financial institution. The Company's investment policy limits investments to certain types of debt securities issued by the U.S. government, its agencies and institutions with investment-grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of default by the institutions holding its cash and cash equivalents or issuing the debt securities. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had not experienced any credit losses in such accounts or investments. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when: (i) evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii) fees are fixed or determinable, (iii) services have been delivered, and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. The Company currently generates revenue from government contracts and a non-profit foundation grant (collectively, the "Revenue Contracts"). Revenue Contracts are agreements that provide the Company with payments for certain types of expenditures in return for research and development activities over a contractually-defined period. Revenue from the Revenue Contracts is recognized in the period during which the related costs are incurred and the related services are rendered, provided that the applicable conditions under the government contracts have been met. Costs of contract revenue are recorded as a component of operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statement of operations. Funds received from third parties under contract arrangements are recorded as revenue if the Company is deemed to be the principal participant in the contract arrangements because the activities under the contracts are part of the Company's development programs. If the Company is not the principal participant, the funds from contracts are recorded as a reduction to research and development expense. Contract funds received are not refundable and are recognized when the related qualified research and development costs are incurred and when there is reasonable assurance that the funds will be received. Funds billed and received in advance are recorded as deferred revenue. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses include certain payroll and personnel expenses; laboratory supplies; consulting costs; external contract research and development expenses; and allocated overhead, including rent, equipment depreciation and utilities, and relate to both Company-sponsored programs as well as costs incurred pursuant to collaboration agreements and government contracts. The Company estimates preclinical study and clinical trial expenses based on the services performed pursuant to contracts with research institutions and clinical research organizations that conduct and manage preclinical studies and clinical trials on its behalf. In accruing service fees, the Company estimates the time period over which services will be performed and the level of effort to be expended in each period. If the actual timing of the performance of services or the level of effort varies from the estimate, the Company will adjust the accrual accordingly. Payments made to third parties under these arrangements in advance of the receipt of the related services are recorded as prepaid expenses until the services are rendered. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and other current assets and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases , which, for operating leases, requires a lessee to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in its balance sheet. The standard also requires a lessee to recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term, on a generally straight-line basis. This ASU will be effective for the Company in fiscal year 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which provides a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede Page 10 of 71 most current revenue recognition guidance. This A SU is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This ASU defi nes a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than are required under existing GAAP. The Company expects to adopt the new revenue s tandard as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. The Company has completed its assessment of the first step which included identifying the Company's customers. Through the remainder of 2017, the Company will continue to assess the pot ential impact of adopting this new standard on any current, new or significantly modified customer contracts. In subsequent quarters, the Company will complete its evaluation of additional disclosures that may be required upon adoption of the new standard. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting . This ASU provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award requires the Company to apply modification accounting. This ASU will be effective for the Company for annual reporting periods, including interim reporting periods, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential effects of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per common share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during the period. For purposes of this calculation, preferred stock, stock options, restricted stock units and warrants are considered to be common stock equivalents and are only included in the calculation of diluted net loss per share when their effect is dilutive. For the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, potentially dilutive securities outstanding have been excluded from the computations of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding because such securities have an antidilutive impact due to losses reported. The following potentially dilutive securities have been excluded from diluted net loss per share, because their effect would be antidilutive, as of June 30, 2017 and 2016: 3. Fair Value Measurements Financial assets and liabilities are recorded at fair value. The carrying amount of certain financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, contracts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their relatively short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair values. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that Page 11 of 71 would be received for an asset or an exit price that would be paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liab ility in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements as follows: Level 1 : Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 : Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires management to make judgments and consider factors specific to the asset or liability. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities are classified as Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. The Company's Level 2 valuations of marketable securities are generally derived from independent pricing services based upon quoted prices in active markets for similar securities, with prices adjusted for yield and number of days to maturity, or based on industry models using data inputs, such as interest rates and prices that can be directly observed or corroborated in active markets. In certain cases, where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3 within the valuation hierarchy. Level 3 liabilities that are measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis consist of a derivative liability in connection with loan payable and a warrant liability in connection with the Private Placement. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, financial assets and liabilities measured and recognized at fair value on a recurring basis and classified under the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy as described above were as follows (in thousands): Page 12 of 71 All available-for-sale securities held as of June 30, 2017 had maturities less than one year from the date of acquisition. There were no sales of available-for-sale securities in any of the periods presented. The carrying value of debt securities that were in unrealized loss positions totaled $54.1 million as of June 30, 2017. The Company has determined that (i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments, and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such debt securities and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017. Pursuant to the loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. (see Note 7), the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement under which the Company agreed to pay $1.0 million in cash (the &quot;Success Fee&quot;) if the Company obtains approval to market plazomicin from the Food and Drug Administration (the &quot;FDA&quot;). If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee, approximately $602,000 at December 31, 2016, is recorded as a derivative liability and included in other long-term liabilities on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability as of June 30, 2017 increased by $40,000 to $642,000 from December 31, 2016, as a result of the time value of money, which is presented as change in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017. The fair value of the derivative liability was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, and is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs. Specifically, the key assumptions included in the calculation of the estimated fair value of the derivative instrument include: i) the Company's estimates of both the probability and timing of a potential $1.0 million payment to Solar Capital Ltd. upon FDA approval to market plazomicin, and ii) a discount rate of 13% which was derived from the Company's estimated cost of debt. The estimated fair value of the derivative liability is most sensitive to the probability of FDA approval. Should the probability of FDA approval change by 5%, the fair value of the derivative liability as of June 30, 2017 would change by approximately $38,000. For the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, there was no change to the key assumptions used in the calculation of the estimated fair value. Any changes in the estimated fair values are presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. Page 13 of 71 Pursuant to the Private Placement (see Note 2), the Company issued warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.66. The Company classifie d these warrants as a liability measured at fair value using Black-Scholes. Under certain entity conditions, the holder of a warrant may require the Company to settle the warrant in cash at its estimated fair value using Black-Scholes. On the closing date of the Private Placement, June 3, 2016, the $2.6 million initial estimated fair value of the warrants was recorded as a warrant liability on the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet. At June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the estimated fair v alues of the warrants were approximately $23.0 million and $13.9 million, respectively. The change in the estimated fair value is primarily due to the increase in the Company's stock price and is included in changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. In February 2017, certain holders of these warrants exercised warrants to purchase 78,585 shares of common stock. The Company received $0.3 million in proceeds from these warrant exercises. The Company is required to record the exercised warrants at its estimated fair value at the time of exercise, with any change included in changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company estimated the fair value of these exercised warrants at their respective exercise dates to be $1.5 million, an increase of $0.7 million from its valuation, at December 31, 2016, of $0.8 million, primarily due to an increase in the Company's stock price. The fair value of the warrant liability is classified as a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy since the Company's valuation utilized significant unobservable inputs, including the risk-free interest rate, expected share price volatility, underlying price per share of the Company's common stock and remaining term of the warrants. At June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the estimated fair values of the warrants were determined using Black-Scholes with the following assumptions: The expected volatility is based on the Company's expected volatility. The expected term is based on the remaining life of the warrants. The risk-free interest rate is obtained from the yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities for a period equal to the expected term of the warrants. The dividend yield is zero because the Company has never paid cash dividends and has no present intention to pay cash dividends. Should the share price change by 5%, the fair value of the warrant liability as of June 30, 2017 would change by approximately $1.3 million. Changes in the fair value of recurring measurements included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are presented as changes in warrant and derivative liabilities in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations and were as follows for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 (in thousands): Warrants outstanding as of June 30, 2017 and 2016 have a weighted-average exercise price of $3.78 4. Balance Sheet Components Prepaids and other current assets Prepaids and other current assets consisted of the following (in thousands): Page 14 of 71 Property and Equipment, net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization expense for the three-month periods ended June30, 2017 and 2016 was $0.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively, and $0.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively, for the six-month periods ended June30, 2017 and 2016. Accrued Liabilities Accrued liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. License and Collaboration Agreements Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. In April 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with its collaboration partner, Microgenics Corporation ("Thermo Fisher"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., to develop and commercialize an assay to support plazomicin. If approved, the Company and Thermo Fisher plan to have a commercial assay for plazomicin available at launch to enable health care professionals to make decisions on safe and efficacious doses of plazomicin. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, the Company is required to make milestone payments with respect to research, development, regulatory and commercialization milestones (if any). All such milestone payments may total, in aggregate, up to but no more than $6,453,000. In further consideration of this agreement, in the event of a successful commercialization of the assay, the Company is required to pay a minimum threshold annual revenue to Thermo Fisher. In February 2017, the Company announced the achievement of a strategic milestone in its ongoing collaboration to develop an assay enabling therapeutic drug management of plazomicin, and incurred $915,000 of research and development expense related to this milestone. As of June 30, 2017, the Company has incurred $1,433,000 in milestone payments and these costs were fully recorded as research and development expense. Crystal Biosciences, Inc. In May 2016, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Crystal Biosciences, Inc. ("Crystal"). Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, the Company and Crystal agreed to collaborate on the discovery of monoclonal antibodies against multiple targets. Crystal agreed to conduct the initial discovery work with its antibody platform and the Company has the right to develop and commercialize the antibodies discovered through this collaboration. The Company is required to provide signing and milestone payments with respect to research, development, regulatory and commercialization milestones (if any). All such milestone payments may total, in aggregate, up to but no more than $20,550,000. The upfront signing fee, technology access fees and research funding were recorded as research and development expense. This collaboration and license agreement also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit percentage of annual worldwide net sales of the commercialized product. Ionis Pharmaceuticals In January 2006, the Company entered into a license agreement with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Ionis"). Ionis granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide license with the right to grant and authorize sublicenses related to the research and development of aminoglycoside products. As an up-front fee, the Company issued 97,402 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock at a fair value Page 15 of 71 of $15.40 per share. This license fee of $1,500,000 was recorded as research and development expense in 2006. In further consideration of this license, and in accordance with the terms of the agreement, the Company is required to make milestone payments with respect to development, regulatory and commercialization milestones, and to pay a percentage of revenue recei ved from sublicensees (if any). All such milestone and sublicense revenue payments may total, in the aggregate, up to but no more than $19,500,000 for the first product and $9,750,000 following the second product commercialized under the agreement with Ion is. The Company is also required to pay additional milestone payments of up to $20,000,000 in the aggregate upon the first achievement of specified threshold levels of annual net sales of all aminoglycoside products in a calendar year. The license agreemen t also provides that the Company shall pay royalties equal to a low single-digit percentage of annual worldwide net sales of all licensed products, including, if applicable, plazomicin. Through June 30, 2017, the Company had compensated Ionis $7,000,000 in connection with the first three milestones under the license for the first aminoglycoside product candidate. As of June 30, 2017, the Company had no outstanding payments due under the agreement. 6. Revenue Contracts Certain of the Company's drug discovery and development activities are performed under contracts with the Gates Foundation and U.S. government agencies. Management has determined that the Company is the principal participant in the following contract arrangements, and, accordingly, the Company records amounts earned under the arrangements as revenue. Costs incurred under the Revenue Contracts are recorded as operating expenses in the Company's consolidated statements of operations. Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation In May 2017, the Company entered into an agreement with the Gates Foundation to discover drug candidates against gram-negative bacterial pathogens intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "Grant Agreement"). The Gates Foundation awarded the Company up to approximately $10.5 million in grant funding ("Grant Funds") over a three-year research term, of which approximately $3.2 million of committed funding was received in May 2017 (the "Advance Funds"). The Advance Funds are replenished by the Gates Foundation each calendar year, or sooner, following the Company's submission of a progress report, including expenses incurred for the research activities. Under certain conditions, as described in the Grant Agreement, the Gates Foundation may terminate the Grant Agreement and the Company is obligated to return to the Gates Foundation any unused portion of the Advance Funds. In accordance with the Company's significant accounting policies, the Advance Funds are recorded as deferred revenue. The Company recorded contract revenue of $206,000 under this agreement during the three-month and six-month period endeds June 30, 2017. The Company did not record any contract revenue from the Gates Foundation during 2016. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority In August 2010, the Company was awarded a contract with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority ("BARDA") for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. The original contract included committed funding of $27,600,000 for the first two years of the contract and subsequent options exercisable by BARDA to provide additional funding. In September 2012, BARDA exercised an additional $15,798,000 contract option (&quot;Option 1&quot;), which increased the total contract committed funding to $43,398,000 through March 2014. In April 2013, the Company was awarded an additional $60,410,000 under the contract to support its Phase 3 clinical trial of plazomicin (&quot;Option 2&quot;) to increase the total committed funding under this contract to $103,808,000. On May 26, 2016, the Company was awarded an additional $20 million (&quot;Option 3&quot;) under the contract to support its Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin. In April 2017, BARDA modified Option 1 to allow for an additional $492,000 of contract funding. This brings the total committed funding under the contract to $124,300,000. The Company recorded contract revenue of $609,000 and $8,510,000 under this agreement during the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $7,723,000 and $13,780,000, respectively, during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases In July 2015, the Company was awarded a contract by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (&quot;NIAID&quot;) for $1.5 million committed through June 30, 2016. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added. In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise the first option to increase the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018. In April 2017, NIAID modified the contract to add committed funding of $0.3 million to the first option, bringing the total committed funding to $4.7 million. In June 2017, NIAID modified the contract to exercise the second option of $0.6 million, bringing the total committed funding to $5.3 million. Page 16 of 71 The Company recorded contract revenue of $451,000 and $634,000 under these ag reements during the three-month periods ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $800,000 and $1,213,000, respectively, during the six-month periods ended June30, 2017 and 2016. 7. Borrowings Solar Capital Ltd. Loan Agreement On August 5, 2015, the Company entered into a loan and security agreement (the "Loan Agreement") with Solar Capital Ltd. (the "Lender") pursuant to which the Lender agreed to make available to the Company term loans in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million with a maturity date of August 5, 2019. An initial $15.0 million term loan was funded at closing on August 5, 2015, and a second $10.0 million term loan was funded on June 20, 2016. Borrowings under the term loans bear interest per annum at 6.99% plus the greater of 1% or the one-month LIBOR. The Company is currently required to make interest-only payments on the term loans through August 2017, and beginning on September 1, 2017 the Company is required to make monthly payments of interest plus equal monthly payments of principal over a term of 24 months. The Loan Agreement requires collateral by a security interest in all of the Company's assets except intellectual property (which is subject to a negative pledge) and contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, and also includes standard events of default, including payment defaults. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, a default interest rate of an additional 4% may be applied to the outstanding loan balances, and the Lender may declare all outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and take such other actions as set forth in the Loan Agreement. There were no financial covenants attached to the loan. The Loan Agreement included a closing fee of $250,000 which was paid at closing, and the Company is obligated to pay a fee equal to 8% of the term loans funded upon the earliest to occur of the maturity date, the acceleration of the term loans or the voluntary prepayment of the term loans. The cost of these fees is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. The Company may voluntarily prepay all, but not less than all, of the outstanding term loans. The Loan Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains customary events of default that entitle the Lender to cause the Company's indebtedness under the Loan Agreement to become immediately due and payable. On August 5, 2015, pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Company entered into a Success Fee Agreement with the Lender under which the Company agreed to pay the Lender $1.0 million if the Company obtains FDA approval to market plazomicin. If such approval is obtained, the Success Fee shall be due the later of (i) August 5, 2019 or (ii) the date such FDA approval is obtained. The fair value of the Success Fee at the date of issuance of approximately $356,000 was recorded as a debt discount and is being amortized as interest expense over the term of the loan using the effective-interest method. Future principal debt payments on the currently outstanding term loan are payable as follows (in thousands): The obligation includes a final fee of $2,000,000, representing 8% of the term loan currently funded, which accretes over the life of the loan as interest expense. The Company recorded interest expense related to the loan of $0.7 million and $0.4 million for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $1.4 million and $0.9 million, respectively, for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. 8. Stockholders' Equity On April 7, 2015, the Company entered into a Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which the Company may issue and sell shares of its common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of June 30, 2017, the Company had sold 1,105,549 shares of common stock under the Sales Agreement, at a weighted-average price of approximately $4.82 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of $5.3 million and net proceeds of $5.1 million after Page 17 of 71 deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. As of June30, 2017, $24.7 million of common stock remained available to be sold under the Sales Agreement, subject to certa in conditions specified therein. On June 3, 2016, the Company sold 7,999,996 shares of its common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of its common stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreement for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million in the Private Placement. The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. The Company's Chief Operating Officer, a related party, participated in the Private Placement by purchasing 141,453 shares of common stock and a warrant to purchase 35,363 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $0.5 million. Issuance costs of $0.3 million were offset against equity as a reduction from gross proceeds. At the close of the Private Placement, the estimated fair values of the common stock and warrants issued were $22.9 million and $2.6 million, respectively. At June 30, 2017, using Black-Scholes, the Company estimated the fair value of the remaining warrants outstanding to be $23.0 million and recorded a charge of $11.3 million and $10.7 million, for the increase in the liability, in the condensed consolidated statements of operations, for the year ended December 31, 2016 and six-month period ended June 30, 2017 , respectively. On December 19, 2016, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of 7,475,000 shares of its common stock at a price to the public of $13.50 per share, including the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 975,000 shares of common stock. The Company received net proceeds from the offering of $94.6 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. On May 31, 2017, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of 5,750,000 shares of its common stock at a price to the public of $22.50 per share, including the closing of the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 750,000 shares of common stock on June 9, 2017. The Company received net proceeds from the offering of $121.2 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Equity Incentive Plans 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Equity Incentive Award Plan (the &quot;2014 Plan&quot;), which became effective as of March 11, 2014. Under the 2014 Plan, the Company may grant incentive stock options (&quot;ISOs&quot;), nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units (&quot;RSUs&quot;) and other stock-based awards for the purchase of that number of shares of common stock. Effective, January 1, 2017, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 1,425,522 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the 2014 Plan. As of June 30, 2017, 726,319 shares were available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan. Under the 2014 Plan, the terms of stock award agreements, including vesting requirements, are determined by the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the 2014 Plan. Options granted by the Company typically vest over a four year period and the exercise price may not be less than fair market value on the date of grant. Certain of the options are subject to acceleration of vesting in the event of certain change of control transactions. Options granted under the 2014 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan In December 2014, the Company adopted a 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan (the &quot;Inducement Plan&quot;). The Inducement Plan is designed to comply with the inducement exemption contained in Nasdaq's Rule 5635(c)(4), which provides for the grant of non-qualified stock options, RSUs, restricted stock awards, performance awards, dividend equivalents, deferred stock awards, deferred stock units, stock payment and stock appreciation rights to a person not previously an employee or director of the Company, or following a bona fide period of non-employment, as an inducement material to the individual's entering into employment with the Company. As of June 30, 2017, a total of 1,600,000 shares of common stock have been authorized under the Inducement Plan, including the additional 450,000 shares that became available resulting from an amendment adopted by the board of directors as of February 22, 2017. As of June 30, 2017, 283,268 shares were available for future issuance under the Inducement Plan. 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In February 2014, the Company's stockholders approved the 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"), which became effective as of March 11, 2014. Effective, January 1, 2017, the compensation committee of the board of directors approved an evergreen increase of 178,190 shares that may be granted in accordance with the terms of the ESPP. As of June 30, 2017, 336,139 shares of common stock have been issued to employees participating in the ESPP, and 350,528 shares are available for issuance under the ESPP. Page 18 of 71 Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan The Company's Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan (the &quot;2003 Plan&quot;), provided for the granting of incentive and non-statutory stock options to employees, directors and consultants at the discretion of the board of directors. The Company granted options under its 2003 Plan until January 2014 and it was terminated as to future awards in March 2014, although it continues to govern the terms of options that remain outstanding under the 2003 Plan. Options granted under the 2003 Plan expire no later than 10 years from the date of grant. Options granted under the 2003 Plan vest over periods determined by the board of directors, generally over four years. The 2003 Plan allows for early exercise of certain options prior to vesting. Upon termination of employment, the unvested shares are subject to repurchase at the original exercise price. Stock options granted or modified after March 21, 2002, that are subsequently exercised for cash prior to vesting, are not deemed to be issued until those shares vest. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 there were no shares subject to repurchase relating to the early exercise of options. In connection with the board of directors' and stockholders' approval of the 2014 Plan, all remaining shares available for future awards under the 2003 Plan were transferred to the 2014 Plan, and the 2003 Plan was terminated as to future awards. As of June 30, 2017, a total of 830,082 shares of common stock are subject to options outstanding under the 2003 plan, which shares will become available under the 2014 Plan to the extent the options are forfeited or lapse unexercised. The following table summarizes stock option activity under the stock plans, excluding the ESPP, and related information: Stock-based compensation expense recognized for stock options granted to employees and non-employee directors in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations was as follows (in thousands): Stock-based compensation expense for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 includes $0.6 million of expense that relate to stock options and restricted stock units held by the former Chief Medical Officer, which were modified upon his resignation in March 2017, including $0.7 million related to such modifications. As of June 30, 2017, approximately $22,448,654 of total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to unvested stock options is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.11 years. Page 19 of 71 The estimated grant date fair value of employee stock options with time-based vesting terms was calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation mode l, based on the following assumptions: Stock Options Granted to Non-Employees During the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, the Company granted to a non-employee consultant an option to purchase an aggregate of 3,000 shares of common stock and 1,500 RSUs, that vest upon the achievement of certain performance-based targets. The Company will record the estimated fair value of the awards at the time the performance-based targets are met, which has not occurred as of June 30, 2017. During the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016, the Company did not grant any stock options or RSUs to non-employees. The Company recorded non-employee stock-based compensation expense of approximately $195,000 and zero for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $414,000 and zero, respectively, for the the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. The Company measures the estimated fair value of the award for each period until the award is fully vested. The non-employee stock-based compensation expense, during the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 , was estimated using Black-Scholes with the following assumptions: Restricted Stock Units Granted to Employees During the six-month period ended June 30, 2017, the Company granted RSUs to employees to receive 357,681 shares of common stock under the Company's stock plans with a weighted-average estimated grant-date fair value of $23.15 per share. RSUs generally vest annually over a 4-year service period and vesting is contingent on continued service. As of June 30, 2017, there were unrecognized compensation costs of $9,260,032 related to outstanding RSUs, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.25 years. A summary of RSU activity is as follows: Stock Options and Restricted Stock Units Granted to Employees that Contain Performance Conditions During the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company granted options to purchase an aggregate of 14,500 and 11,500 shares of common stock, respectively, and 156,700 and 211,250, respectively, that vest upon the achievement of market-based common stock price targets, for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. During the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company granted 3,150 and 2,750 RSUs, respectively, and 28,950 and 50,175 RSUs, respectively, that vest upon the achievement of market-based common stock price targets, for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. The fair value was estimated at the grant date using a Monte-Carlo simulation model ("Monte-Carlo"), which requires the use of a range of assumptions. The expected life assumption is not used in Monte-Carlo, but the output of the model indicates an expected Page 20 of 71 term. The associated stock-based co mpensation expense is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the implicit service period (expected time to vest) derived from Monte-Carlo. The fair value of awards granted to employees was estimated using Monte-Carlo with the following assumptions: 9. Contingently Redeemable Common Stock In May 2017, the Company entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with the Gates Foundation, pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell 407,331 shares of its contingently redeemable common stock (the "Shares") to the Gates Foundation in a private placement at a purchase price per share equal to $24.55, for gross proceeds to the Company of $10.0 million ("Gates Investment"). In connection with the Gates Investment, the Company entered into the Letter Agreement, which includes terms of Global Access Commitments (see Note 1). Under the Letter Agreement, if the Company defaults in its obligation to conduct certain mutually-agreed upon work with the proceeds from the Gates Investment, or otherwise triggers certain other events of default ("Charitable Default"), subject to a cure period, the Gates Foundation will have the right to request that (a) the Company redeem, or facilitate the purchase by a third party of, the Shares then held by the Gates Foundation at a price per share equal to the greater of (i) the fair market value of the common stock (if the Shares are freely tradable, the closing price of the Company's common stock on the trading day prior to the redemption or purchase, as applicable), or (ii) an amount equal to $24.55 plus a compounded annual return of 5% from the date of issuance of the Shares, or (b) if the Shares then held by the Gates Foundation are not freely tradeable, the Company register the resale of the Shares held by the Gates Foundation on an effective registration statement, subject to certain conditions and qualifications. The Company concluded that certain potential events of the Charitable Default, as defined in the agreement, are not solely within the control of the Company and, accordingly, has classified the Shares outside of permanent equity, as temporary equity (the "Mezzanine Equity"). The 407,331 shares classified as Mezzanine Equity were recorded as contingently redeemable common stock at an initial carrying value equal to the gross proceeds of approximately $10 million, which approximated their fair value at the date of issuance. The Company has determined that the 407,331 shares of contingently redeemable common stock are not currently redeemable and that a Charitable Default is not currently probable. If, and at the time when, a Charitable Default becomes probable, then the Company will record a change in the carrying value to adjust it to the redemption value of the contingently redeemable common stock. At the time of such an occurrence, the contingently redeemable common stock will be adjusted to equal the redemption value at the end of each reporting period. 10. Commitments Commercial Manufacturing Agreement In March 2017, the Company entered into a commercial validation and manufacturing agreement (the "Manufacturing Agreement") with Hovione Limited ("Hovione"). Under the Manufacturing Agreement, Hovione has agreed to complete the validation program to validate and scale up the Company's technology to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient for plazomicin (the "Product") and supply the Product to the Company. The Manufacturing Agreement has an initial term of seven years after the first delivery of the Product. Subject to the successful completion of the validation program and the Company's launch of plazomicin, the Company has agreed to purchase a minimum quantity of the Product from Hovione depending on the Company's requirements and the period of time following approval by the FDA. For the first three years following approval of plazomicin by the FDA, the Company is required to purchase at least 80% of its required quantity from Hovione. Following the initial three years after FDA approval, the Company is required to purchase between 40% and 66% of its required quantity from Hovione, depending on the amounts required during any such fiscal year. Contingent upon FDA's approval of plazomicin, the Company has minimum annual purchase commitments from Hovione, beginning in 2020 through 2024. In connection with the Manufacturing Agreement, the Company executed certain work plans to carry out the validation and commercial manufacturing of plazomicin (the "Work Plans"). The Work Plans obligate the Company to make an aggregate amount of Page 21 of 71 ap proximately $6.2 million in nonrefundable advance payments, of which $1.5 million was for the reservation of facilities and resources, plus procurement of long lead raw materials, paid in full under a separate agreement executed in July 2015. Such advance payments are initially capitalized as prepaid and other current assets and will be recognized as research and development expenses as goods are delivered and/or services are performed. The Company assesses such prepaid and other current assets for impairme nt if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or may not provide future economic benefits. Further, the Work Plans include certain terms that require the Company to compensate Hovione if it chooses to can cel the Work Plans ("Cancellation Clause"). As of June30, 2017 , $9.8 million is committed under the Cancellation Clause and the total aggregate amount of potential commitments, if all the services are rendered by Hovione, is approximately $28.1 million. A s of June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company has recorded approximately $4.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively as prepaid and other current assets and, during the three-month periods ended June30, 2017 and 2016, has recognized $1.2 million a nd $0.4 million, respectively, and $1.6 million and $0.4 million, respectively, during the six-month periods ended June30, 2017 and 2016, as research and development expenses, related to the Work Plans. In December 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with Hovione to procure certain long lead raw materials to be used in the commercial production of plazomicin (the "Raw Material Agreement"). The Raw Material Agreement includes $1.2 million in nonrefundable advance payments. As of June30, 2017 , the Company has recorded $1.2 million of these nonrefundable advance payments as prepaid and other current assets. Facilities Lease Obligation The Company leased its former principal executive offices in South San Francisco under a non-cancelable lease agreement that expired on April 14, 2017. In August 2016, the Company entered into a non-cancelable agreement (the &quot;Lease&quot;) to lease approximately 47,000 square feet of office, laboratory and research and development space for the Company's new principal executive offices ("Premises") in South San Francisco. The Lease commenced in March 2017, after the substantial completion of certain improvements (&quot;Tenant Improvements&quot;) required under the Lease, set to expire in September 2027 (&quot;Lease Term&quot;), and the Company moved into the Premises in April 2017. The Lease contains expansion options and an option to extend the Lease Term for an additional 5 years. Base rent for the first year of the Lease Term is approximately $2.7 million, with an increase in annual base rent of approximately 3.5% in each subsequent year of the Lease Term. The Lease also provides for rent abatement of approximately $1.8 million for the first year of the Lease Term. The Company has a one-time improvement allowance of $5.7 million for the Tenant Improvements (the &quot;Allowance&quot;). The Landlord disbursed the Allowance for the Tenant Improvement on behalf of the Company. As of June 30, 2017, the Company has recorded approximately $5.7 million within leasehold improvements under property, plant and equipment, net and other current liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet related to costs incurred under the Allowance. At its election, the Company is also entitled to an additional improvements allowance of $0.9 million (&quot;Additional Allowance&quot;). In the event the Company elects to use the Additional Allowance, the base rent will be increased as calculated in the Lease. Further, the Company had a deposit of $250,000 included in long-term restricted cash as of June 30, 2017, restricted from withdrawal and held in a money market account with one of the Company's financial institutions in the form of collateral for a letter of credit held as security for the Lease. In July 2017, the Company executed a lease amendment to the Lease for additional space at the Premises and to extend the Lease Term through January 2028 (see Note 11). Future minimum lease payments under the operating leases as of June 30, 2017 are as follows (in thousands): The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the non-cancelable lease period. Rent expense was $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $1.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively, for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. 11. Subsequent Events Facilities Lease Obligation Page 22 of 71 Effe ctive as of July 20, 2017, the Company entered into a non-cancelable amendment to the Lease (the "Lease Amendment") to lease an additional 51,866 square feet of office, laboratory and research and development space at the Premises for the expansion of the Company's principal executive offices. The lease for 18,888 square feet of space is expected to begin by the third quarter of 2017 and the remainder in the second quarter of 2018, respectively. The lease term is through January 31, 2028 and includes an opt ion to extend for an additional 5 years. The Lease Amendment includes a requirement to obtain a standby letter of credit in the amount of $280,000 held as security for the lease and provides for additional rent abatement and tenant improvement allowances. Page 23 of 71 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "intend," "could," "should," "estimate," or "continue," and similar expressions or variations. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in Part II Other Information, Item 1A. Risk Factors below and elsewhere in this report, that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or anticipated results. The forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q represent our views as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We anticipate that subsequent events and developments will cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the extent required by applicable law. You should, therefore, not rely on these forward-looking statements as representing our views as of any date subsequent to the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a late-stage biopharmaceutical company passionately committed to the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel antibacterial treatments against multi-drug resistant ("MDR") gram-negative infections. We are researching and developing plazomicin, our lead product candidate, for the treatment of serious bacterial infections, including complicated urinary tract infection ("cUTI"), blood stream infections and other infections due to MDR Enterobacteriaceae, including carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae ("CRE"). In 2013, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention identified CRE as a "nightmare bacteria" and an immediate public health threat that requires "urgent and aggressive action" and in 2017 the World Health Organization identified CRE as a Global Priority 1 Pathogen: Critical Need for Research and Development of New Antibiotics. On December 12, 2016, we announced positive data from our two Phase 3 clinical trials for plazomicin. The first study, a Phase 3 trial of plazomicin for the treatment of patients with cUTI and acute pyelonephritis ("AP"), entitled EPIC (Evaluating Plazomicin In cUTI), is expected to serve as a single pivotal study supporting a new drug application ("NDA") for plazomicin in the United States. The Phase 3 EPIC trial is a randomized, double blind, active controlled study in patients with cUTI and AP and allowed broad enrollment of patients with gram-negative infections. We reached agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") that this trial comparing plazomicin to meropenem with a 15% non-inferiority margin is acceptable as the single study required for potential approval. The first patient was enrolled in the Phase 3 EPIC trial in January 2016 and enrollment was closed in August 2016 with 609 patients. In the EPIC trial, plazomicin successfully met or exceeded the objective of non-inferiority compared to meropenem for the FDA-specified primary efficacy endpoints, and achieved superiority for the primary efficacy endpoints specified by the European Medicines Agency ("EMA"). Results for the FDA pre-specified composite endpoint of clinical cure and microbiological eradication in the microbiological modified intent-to-treat ("mMITT") population at Day 5 achieved statistical non-inferiority, and Test-of-Cure (Day ~17) achieved statistical superiority. Results for EMA-specified endpoints of microbiological eradication at the test-of-cure visit achieved statistical superiority in both the mMITT and microbiologically evaluable ("ME") populations. Plazomicin was generally well tolerated with no new safety concerns identified in the EPIC trial. As previously disclosed, total treatment emergent adverse events ("TEAEs") related to renal function were reported in 3.6% and 1.3% of patients in the plazomicin and meropenem groups, respectively. TEAEs related to cochlear or vestibular function were reported in a single patient in each of the plazomicin and meropenem treatment groups. Both events were considered mild and resolved completely. The second study, our Phase 3 CARE (Combating Antibiotic Resistant Enterobacteriaceae) trial was a resistant pathogen trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plazomicin in patients with serious bacterial infections due to CRE. We closed enrollment in the CARE study in August 2016 with 69 patients, comprised of 39 patients enrolled in Cohort 1, comparing plazomicin to colistin-based therapy in patients with bloodstream infections or pneumonia due to CRE, and 30 patients in Cohort 2, a single arm cohort of plazomicin treatment in patients with serious infections due to CRE. In Cohort 1 of the CARE trial, a lower rate of mortality or serious disease-related complications was observed for plazomicin compared with colistin therapy. The safety profile of plazomicin was favorable to that of colistin in critically ill patients in the CARE trial. As previously disclosed, study drug-related TEAEs related to renal function were reported in 16.7% and 38.1% of patients in the plazomicin and colistin groups, respectively. No TEAEs related to cochlear or vestibular function were reported in either group. However, due to the clinical status of patients enrolled in the trial who were frequently ventilated and unconscious, planned assessments of hearing and tinnitus were not possible for many of the patients. Page 24 of 71 We plan to submit an NDA, which will include data from both the EPIC and CARE Phase 3 clinical trials, to the FDA in the second half of 2017, with a planned commercial launch of plazomicin in the United States in 2018, if ou r NDA is approved. We also plan to submit a Marketing Authorization Application to the EMA for plazomicin in 2018. On May 23, 2017, we announced that, based on the results of the CARE study, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for plazomicin for the treatment of bloodstream infections caused by certain Enterobacteriaceae, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Enterobacter aerogenes . Breakthrough Therapy designation is granted by the FDA to treat a serious condition and where preliminary clinical evidence demonstrates the drug may have substantial improvement on one or more clinically significant endpoints over available therapy. Breakthrough Therapy is intended to expedite the development and review of new therapies to treat such conditions. In 2012, the FDA granted fast-track designation for the development and regulatory review of plazomicin to treat serious and life-threatening CRE infections. In 2014, plazomicin received Qualified Infectious Disease Product ("QIDP") designation from the FDA. The QIDP designation was created by the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now ("GAIN") Act, which was part of the FDA Safety and Innovation Act and provides certain incentives for the development of new antibiotics, including priority review and an additional five years of market exclusivity. We have global commercialization rights to plazomicin, which has patent protection in the United States estimated from 2030 to 2032. We recently announced our orally-available antibacterial candidate, C-Scape, a combination of an approved -lactam and an approved -lactamase inhibitor. We believe that C-Scape has the potential to rapidly address a serious unmet need for an effective oral treatment for patients with cUTI, including AP, caused by ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae. We began a Phase 1 study in the second quarter of 2017. In the event the Phase 1 trial is successful, we intend to initiate a single pivotal Phase 3 study in patients with cUTI, including AP, who are suitable for treatment with oral antibiotics, by the first half of 2018. We also have a program to discover and develop small molecule inhibitors of LpxC (an enzyme essential for the synthesis of the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria), which could be ready to file an investigational new drug application ("IND") as early as 2018. Our LpxC program is funded in part with an award from the Combating Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria Biopharmaceutical Accelerator (CARB-X) of $3.2 million, with potential funding of up to $11.4 million, and a contract from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for up to $5.3 million. Our therapeutic antibody program utilizes a built-for-purpose discovery platform to identify and develop monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of MDR bacterial infections and other significant unmet medical needs. To further support that program, we entered into a research agreement with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (the "Gates Foundation") to discover drug candidates against gram-negative bacterial pathogens intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "Grant Agreement"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Gates Foundation awarded up to $10.5 million in grant funding over a three-year research term. We have other programs in early stages of research targeting MDR gram-negative bacterial infections. Since our inception, we have financed our operations with the proceeds from our initial public offering ("IPO") of our common stock, proceeds from the underwritten public offering of our common stock, proceeds from sales of our common stock through the use of our at-the-market ("ATM") equity offering program, funding under our contracts with a non-profit foundation and government agencies, private placements of our equity securities and certain debt-related financing arrangements. Our plazomicin program is funded in part with a contract from BARDA. Our other programs are currently funded primarily with company funds, although, in 2015, we received a contract from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases ("NIAID") that has total committed funding of $5.3 million. Historically, our preclinical programs have received funding support from organizations in addition to the National Institutes of Health, such as the U.S. Department of Defense and The Wellcome Trust, a global charitable foundation. We intend to continue to seek further collaborations with government agencies, non-profit foundations, and other research and development funding organizations to support our discovery efforts and advance the product candidates in our pipeline. On March 17, 2014, we completed our IPO of common stock. We sold 6,900,000 shares of our common stock, which included 900,000 shares issued as a result of the underwriters exercising their over-allotment option in full. We received cash proceeds of approximately $73.9 million from the IPO, net of underwriting commissions and related expenses. On April 7, 2015, we entered into the Sales Agreement (the "Sales Agreement") with Cowen and Company, LLC ("Cowen"), pursuant to which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock having aggregate sales proceeds of up to $30.0 million from time to time through an ATM equity offering program under which Cowen acts as sales agent. As of June 30, 2017, we had sold 1,105,549 shares under the Sales Agreement at an average price of $4.82 per share and we received aggregate cash proceeds of $5.1 million, after deducting the sales commissions and offering expenses. On August 5, 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd., pursuant to which Solar Capital Ltd. agreed to make available to us term loans with an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million, $15.0 million of which was provided to us on August 5, 2015 and $10.0 million of which was provided to us on June 20, 2016. On May 26, 2016, BARDA exercised an additional option (&quot;Option 3&quot;) under its existing contract, and we were awarded an additional $20.0 million in contract funding. Option 3 also includes a no-cost extension of the period of performance for Option 1 to Page 25 of 71 September 20, 2016, under the contract to support our Phase 3 EPIC trial of plazomicin. The funding from Option 3 is focused on the Phase 3 pivotal clinical trial of plazomicin, the EPIC study, in cUTI. In April 2017, BARDA modified Option 1 to allow for an additional $0.5 million of contract funding. This brings the total committed funding under the contract to $124.3 million. On June 3, 2016, we sold 7,999,996 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1,999,999 shares of common stock pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement ("Purchase Agreement") for aggregate gross proceeds of $25.4 million and aggregate net proceeds of $25.1 million, after deducting the issuance costs, in a private placement financing transaction (the &quot;Private Placement&quot;). The warrants have an exercise price of $3.66 and are exercisable up to five years from the date of issuance. On December 19, 2016, we completed an underwritten public offering of common stock, which resulted in the sale of 7,475,000 shares, at a price of $13.50 per share to the public, including the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 975,000 shares of common stock. We received net proceeds from the offering of $94.6 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. On May 4, 2017, we entered into the Grant Agreement with the Gates Foundation and were awarded up to approximately $10.5 million in grant funding over a three-year research term, of which approximately $3.2 million of committed funding was received in May 2017 (the "Advance Funds"). Concurrently with the Grant Agreement, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with the Gates Foundation, pursuant to which we agreed to sell 407,331 shares of our contingently redeemable common stock to the Gates Foundation in a private placement at a purchase price per share equal to $24.55, for gross proceeds to us of $10.0 million ("Gates Investment"). In connection with the Grant Agreement and Gates Investment, we entered into a strategic relationship with the Gates Foundation (the "Letter Agreement"). Under the terms of the Letter Agreement, the Gates Investment and Advanced Funds may only be used to conduct mutually agreed upon work, including the scale up of our antibody platform technology to launch a product intended to prevent neonatal sepsis (the "NSP"). Pursuant to the Letter Agreement, we agreed to make the NSP available and accessible in certain developing countries and to grant the Gates Foundation a non-exclusive license to commercialize selected drug candidates in certain developing countries, which may only be exercised in the event of certain defaults as described in the Letter Agreement (the "Global Access Commitments"). The Global Access Commitments will continue in effect until the earlier of 25 years from the closing of the Gates Investment or 7 years following the termination of all funding provided by the Gates Foundation; provided, that the Global Access Commitments will continue for any products or services developed with funding provided by the Gates Foundation which continue to be developed or available in certain developing countries. On May 31, 2017, we completed an underwritten public offering of 5,750,000 shares of its common stock at a price to the public of $22.50 per share, including the closing of the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 750,000 shares of common stock on June 9, 2017. We received net proceeds from the offering of $121.2 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. We have never been profitable and have incurred net losses in each year since the commencement of our operations. Substantially all of our net losses have resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and associated general and administrative costs. We expect to incur substantial losses from operations in the foreseeable future as we advance plazomicin and other product candidates through preclinical and clinical development, seek regulatory approval, and prepare for, if approved, commercialization. Management expects that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, will be sufficient to fund our current planned operations for at least the next twelve months from the issuance of these financial statements. We will be required to obtain further funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaboration and licensing arrangements or other sources to invest in the commercial launch of plazomicin and continued progress with our research and development efforts. Adequate additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy. We perform all of our manufacturing in conjunction with third parties. Additionally, we currently utilize third-party clinical research organizations ("CROs") to carry out our clinical development and are building a sales organization. We will need substantial additional funding to support our operating activities and adequate funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Financial Overview Contract Revenue We have derived all of our revenue to date from funding provided under a non-profit foundation and U.S. government contracts (collectively, the "Revenue Contracts") in connection with the development of our product candidates. Our product candidates are still in clinical and preclinical development and may never be successfully developed or commercialized. Other than this contract revenue from the Revenue Contracts, we do not expect to derive any revenue from any product candidates that we develop until we obtain regulatory approval and commercialize such products, which we do not expect will occur before 2018, if at all, or until such time that we potentially enter into collaboration agreements with third parties for the development and commercialization of such product candidates. Page 26 of 71 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. In May 2017, we entered into an agreement with the Gates Foundation to discover drug candidates ag ainst gram-negative bacterial pathogens intended to prevent neonatal sepsis. The Gates Foundation awarded up to approximately $10.5 million in grant funding over a three-year research term, of which approximately $3.2 million of funding was received in May 2017. For the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, total revenue recognized under the Gates Foundation contract was $0.2 million. We did not recognize any revenue from the Gates Foundation in 2016. Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) . We have received funding for our lead product candidate, plazomicin, under a contract with BARDA, an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, for the development, manufacturing, nonclinical and clinical evaluation of, and regulatory filings for, plazomicin as a countermeasure for disease caused by antibiotic-resistant pathogens and biothreats. Our BARDA contract provides for payments to us based on direct costs incurred and allowances for overhead, plus a fee, where applicable. The total committed funding under our BARDA contract is $124.3 million, including $20.0 million for Option 3, exercised by BARDA on May 26, 2016. The exercised option relates to the support of our Phase 3 EPIC study and the preparation and submission of an NDA to the FDA. In addition, in April 2017, BARDA modified Option 1 to allow for an additional $0.5 million of contract funding. For the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, total revenue recognized under the BARDA contract was $0.6 million and $8.5 million, respectively, and $7.7 million and $13.8 million, respectively, for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. Through June 30, 2017, a total of $124.3 million under the BARDA contract was recorded as revenue. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). In July 2014, the Company was awarded a one-year, $0.4 million grant by NIAID to conduct discovery research on novel antibiotics targeting gram-negative bacteria. The contract was subsequently modified to extend through July 31, 2016. In July 2015, we were awarded a contract by NIAID for $1.5 million committed through June 30, 2016. In January 2016, an additional committed funding of $0.5 million was added. In April 2016, NIAID modified the contract to exercise the first option to increase the total contract committed funding to $4.4 million through February 2018. In April 2017, NIAID modified the contract to add committed funding of $0.3 million to the first option, bringing the total committed funding to $4.7 million. In June 2017, NIAID modified the contract to exercise the second option of $0.6 million, bringing the total committed funding to $5.3 million. For the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, total revenue recognized under the NIAID contracts was $0.5 million million and $0.6 million, respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively, for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs associated with research, discovery and preclinical studies of potential new drug compounds, plus product development efforts related to clinical trials and materials manufacturing processes. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and include the following: expenses incurred under agreements with contract research organizations, investigative sites, and consultants that conduct our clinical trials and a substantial portion of our preclinical activities; employee and consultant-related expenses, which include salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and consulting fees; third-party supplier expenses including the cost of acquiring and manufacturing clinical trial and other materials; and facilities, depreciation and other allocated expenses, which include direct and allocated expenses for rent and maintenance of facilities, amortization or depreciation of leasehold improvements, equipment and laboratory supplies and other expenses. Advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities are capitalized as prepaid expenses and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for the foreseeable future related to our research and development activities as we continue research programs and the development of our product candidates. Further, we have incurred substantial research and development costs associated with our plazomicin program as our Phase 3 EPIC and CARE trials have completed patient enrollment. We expect to continue to incur substantial research and development expenses in the future as we continue to support plazomicin and C-Scape development, including preparations to submit an NDA for plazomicin to the FDA. Page 27 of 71 General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist principally of personnel-related costs, professional fees for legal, consulting, audit and tax services, rent and other general operating expenses not otherwise included in research and development. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will continue to increase in future periods, reflecting an expanding infrastructure in preparation for commercialization of plazomicin, if approved. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited condensed financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our critical accounting policies and estimates. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and in Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. During the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies. Our critical accounting policies are described under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three-Month Periods Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 Contract Revenue Contract revenue in each period related solely to funding pursuant to our Revenue Contracts. Contract revenue decreased $7.8 million to $1.3 million in the three-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $9.1 million in the comparable period in 2016. This decrease was primarily due to the full utilization of BARDA funding available under the current contract. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased $0.5 million to $22.2 million in the three-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $21.7 million in the comparable period in 2016. This was primarily due to increases of $6.2 million in personnel and facility related costs as net headcount increased by 46 employees in our research and development organization since June 2016, including $0.9 million for stock compensation expense, $2.2 million in external expenses related to C-Scape, mainly attributed to costs for our Phase 1 study, offset by a decrease of $1.2 million in external non-clinical costs for other research programs, and $6.7 million in the external expenses related to our plazomicin program, mainly attributable to the completion of the Phase 3 studies. Page 28 of 71 We record research and development expenses by program where directly identifi able. In the table below, we have allocated indirect research and development costs based on time charged directly to programs by research and development employees. Indirect research and development costs include employee benefit expenses, employee time n ot charged directly to a program, laboratory supplies and expenses, and allocated facility expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $4.9 million to $8.9 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $4.0 million for the comparable period in 2016. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $4.0 million in personnel and facility related costs, including $1.6 million for stock compensation expense, as net headcount increased by 22 employees, and an increase of $0.9 million in costs to prepare for commercialization of plazomicin. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $0.3 million to $0.7 million for the three-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $0.4 million for the comparable period in 2016. The increase was a result of an additional $10.0 million of borrowings under the Solar Capital loan agreement in June 2016. Change in Warrant and Derivative Liabilities Change in warrant and derivative liabilities decreased by $5.6 million to a $4.2 million gain for the three-month period ended June 30, 2017 from a $1.4 million expense for the comparable period in 2016. The decrease is primarily due to the change in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability, which decreased mainly due to the change in our stock price. Comparison of the Six-Month Periods Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 Contract Revenue Contract revenue in each period related solely to funding pursuant to our Revenue Contracts. Contract revenue decreased $6.3 million to $8.7 million in the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $15.0 million in the comparable period in 2016. This decrease was primarily due to the full utilization of BARDA funding available under the current contract. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses increased $5.2 million to $40.8 million in the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $35.6 million in the comparable period in 2016. This was primarily due to increases of $11.7 million in personnel and facility related costs as net headcount increased by 46 employees in our research and development organization since June 2016, including $2.0 million for stock compensation expense, of which $0.6 million of expense relate to equity awards held by our former Chief Medical Page 29 of 71 Officer that were modified in connection with his resignation in March 201 7, $3.4 million in external expenses related to C-Scape, mainly attributed to costs for our Phase 1 study, offset by a decrease of $1.3 million in external non-clinical costs for other research programs and a decrease of $8.6 million in the external expens es related to our plazomicin program, mainly attributable to the completion of the Phase 3 studies. We record research and development expenses by program where directly identifiable. In the table below, we have allocated indirect research and development costs based on time charged directly to programs by research and development employees. Indirect research and development costs include employee benefit expenses, employee time not charged directly to a program, laboratory supplies and expenses, and allocated facility expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $7.9 million to $15.6 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $7.7 million for the comparable period in 2016. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of $6.0 million in personnel and facility related costs, including $2.3 million for stock compensation expense, as net headcount increased by 22 employees, an increase of $1.8 million in costs to prepare for commercialization of plazomicin and $0.1 million in consulting and professional fees. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $0.5 million to $1.4 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $0.9 million for the comparable period in 2016. The increase was a result of an additional $10.0 million of borrowings under the Solar Capital loan agreement in June 2016. Change in Warrant and Derivative Liabilities Change in warrant and derivative liabilities increased to $10.7 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 from $1.4 million for the comparable period in 2016. The increase is primarily due to the change in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability, which increased mainly due to the change in our stock price. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $33.4 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 of $59.3 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $10.7 million for the revaluation of the warrant and derivative liabilities, $6.4 million for stock-based compensation, $0.4 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.4 million for non-cash interest expense, $0.1 million for loss on fixed asset disposition and a change in net operating assets and liabilities of $7.9 million. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable, accrued liabilities and prepaid expenses and other assets, as a result of commitments and deferred research and development costs Page 30 of 71 related to our commercial validation and manufacturing for plazomicin, partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue, as a result of the Advance Funds received under the grant agreement with the Gat es Foundation, and a decrease in contract receivables. Net cash used in operating activities was $23.8 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016. The primary use of cash was to fund our operations related to the research and development of our product candidates. Our net loss from operations in the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 of $30.5 million was partially offset by non-cash charges of $1.4 million for the revaluation of the warrant and derivative liabilities, $0.2 million for depreciation and amortization, $0.3 million for amortization of premium on short-term investments, $0.3 million for non-cash interest expense, $1.8 million for stock-based compensation, and a change in net operating assets and liabilities of $2.8 million. The change in net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities partially offset by an increase in contract receivable and prepaid expenses and other assets, as a result of costs for our ongoing Phase 3 EPIC trial and the timing of our payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $62.6 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017. The net cash used in investing activities during the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 is primarily a result of purchases in excess of maturities of short-term investments of $59.4 million and purchases of property, plant and equipment of $3.2 million related to our move into new corporate headquarters and to facilitate our research and development activities. Net cash provided by investing activities was $22.6 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016. The net cash provided by investing activities during the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 is primarily a result of maturities in excess of purchases of short-term investments of $22.9 million. Other uses of cash in both periods resulted from purchases of property, plant and equipment to facilitate our increased research and development activities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $133.2 million and $35.6 million for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The net cash provided by financing activities during the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 includes $121.2 million of net proceeds, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions, from an underwritten public offering of our common stock in May 2017, approximately $10.0 million of net proceeds, after deducting issuance costs, from the sale of contingently redeemable common stock to the Gates Foundation in May 2017, $1.7 million from the issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans and $0.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of certain warrants issued from the Private Placement. The net cash provided by financing activities during the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 includes $25.4 million for the sale of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock from the Private Placement, $10.0 million from the term loan provided by Solar Capital Ltd. in June 2016, and $0.2 million from issuance of common stock pursuant to our equity incentive plans. Plan of Operations and Future Funding Requirements We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for research, development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. Specifically, we have incurred and we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with our clinical development of plazomicin and C-Scape and the advancement our research and development programs. Management expects that, based on its current operating plans, our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of June 30, 2017 will be sufficient to fund our current planned operations for at least the next twelve months from the issuance of these financial statements. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial additional financing in the future to fund our operations. We may obtain additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, a credit facility, government contracts and/or strategic collaborations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain debt financing may be limited by covenants we have made under our loan and security agreement with Solar Capital Ltd. and our pledge to Solar Capital Ltd. of substantially all of our assets, other than our intellectual property, as collateral. The negative pledge in favor of Solar Capital Ltd. with respect to our intellectual property under the loan and security agreement could further limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed could have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategies. The amount and timing of our future financing requirements will depend on many factors, including: the size, timing and type of the nonclinical and clinical studies that we decide to pursue in the development of our product candidates, including plazomicin; the type, number, costs and results of the product candidate development programs which we are pursuing or may choose to pursue in the future; Page 31 of 71 the rate of progress and cost of clinical trials we may commence, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities; the costs associated with developing a plazomicin IVD assay to support therapeutic drug monitoring; the timing of, and costs involved in, seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, including the preparation of an NDA for plazomicin, and any supplemental applications thereto; our ability to enter into additional collaboration, licensing or other arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements; the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; the emergence of competing technologies and other adverse market developments; the resources we devote to marketing, and, if approved, commercializing our product candidates; the scope, progress, expansion, and costs of manufacturing our product candidates; our ability to enter into additional government contracts, or other collaborative agreements, to support the development of our product candidates and development efforts; and the costs associated with being a public company. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments as included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 14, 2017, except as noted below: In July 2017, we entered into a lease amendment (the "Lease Amendment") to our existing lease (the "Lease") to lease an additional 51,866 sqare feet of office, laboratory and research and development space located at our current principal executive offices. The amount of future minimum lease payments under the Lease and the Lease Amendment are $31.9 million and $39.3 million, respectively, for a total aggregate amount of $71.2 million. See Note 10 and 11 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for more information on the Lease and Lease Amendment, respectively. In March 2017, we executed certain work plans with Hovione Limited ("Hovione") to carry out our validation and commercial manufacturing of plazomicin (the "Work Plans"). The Work Plans include certain terms that require us to compensate Hovione if we choose to cancel the Work Plans ("Cancellation Clause"). The total aggregate amount of potential commitments under the Work Plans is approximately $28.1 million, of which $9.8 million is committed under the Cancellation Clause, as of June30, 2017. See Note 10 of the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for more information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.