Item 1. Financial Statements Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholder's Equity (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 1. Business Operations Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. (formerly "ADS Waste Holdings Inc." hereafter referred to as the "Company") together with its consolidated subsidiaries, as a consolidated entity, is a nonhazardous solid waste services company providing collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services to customers in the Southeast, Midwest and Eastern regions of the United States, as well as in the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. The Company is wholly owned by ADS Waste Holdings Corp. (the "Parent"). The Company currently manages and evaluates its principal operations through three reportable operating segments on a regional basis. Those operating segments are the South, East and Midwest regions which provide collection, transfer, disposal and recycling services. Additional information related to segments can be found in Note 8. Four acquisitions were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2016 for aggregate prices consisting of cash of $1.4 and notes payable of $0.2 , subject to net working capital adjustments, which are expected to be completed within approximately one year. Three acquisitions were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2015 for a cash purchase price of $18.6 and notes payable of $3.3 . The results of operations of each acquisition are included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. The Company recorded a reduction to the purchase price of prior year acquisitions during the three months ended March 31, 2016 in the amount of $0.1 . The Company is still reviewing information surrounding intangible assets and current liabilities related to acquisitions completed subsequent to the first quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. 2. Basis of Presentation The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements include its wholly-owned subsidiaries of Advanced Disposal Services South, Inc. and HW Star Holdings Corp. and their respective subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements as of March31, 2016 and for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 are unaudited. In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, which, unless otherwise disclosed, are of a normal recurring nature, necessary for a fair statement of the balance sheet, results of operations, comprehensive loss, cash flows, and changes in equity for the periods presented. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the entire year. The financial statements presented herein should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . In conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Company uses estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that it uses is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In preparing the Company's financial statements, the more subjective areas that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to: accounting for long-lived assets, including recoverability; landfill development costs, final capping, closure and post-closure costs; valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets; liabilities for potential litigation; claims and assessments; liabilities for environmental remediation; stock compensation; accounting for goodwill and intangible asset impairments; deferred taxes; uncertain tax positions; self-insurance reserves; and estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that the Company uses in preparation of its financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases , which will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset with a corresponding lease liability, and lessors to recognize a net lease investment. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures will also be required to increase transparency and comparability among organizations. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of the standard is permitted however the Company does not expect to early adopt the ASU. Lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented. While the Company is still assessing the impact of this standard, it does not believe this standard will have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance. The new standard requires that a company recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Companies will need to use more judgment and estimates than under the guidance currently in effect, including estimating the amount of variable revenue to recognize over each identified performance obligation. Additional disclosures will be required to help users of financial statements understand the nature, amount and timing of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts. In July 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date. This standard will now become effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter 2018 and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on the consolidated financial statements and has not selected a transition method. 3. Landfill Liabilities Liabilities for final closure and post-closure costs for the year ended December31, 2015 and for the three months ended March31, 2016 are shown in the table below: 10 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 4. Debt The following table summarizes the major components of debt at each balance sheet date and provides the maturities and interest rate ranges of each major category of debt: All borrowings under the Term Loan B and the Revolver are guaranteed by each of the Company's current and future U.S. subsidiaries (which also guarantee the Senior Notes), subject to certain agreed-upon exemptions. The Company has one non-guarantor foreign subsidiary that is minor, as its assets and income from continuing operations are less than 3% of the Company's consolidated amounts. All guarantors are jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally liable. The Parent has no independent assets or operations and each subsidiary guarantor is 100% owned by the Company. There are no significant restrictions on the Company or any guarantor to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan. Revolver and Letter of Credit Facilities As of March31, 2016 , the Company had an aggregate committed capacity of $300.0 , of which $100.0 was available for letters of credit under its credit facilities. The Company's Revolver is its primary source of letter of credit capacity and expires in October 2017. As of both March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had $32.0 of borrowings outstanding on the Revolver. As of both March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had an aggregate of approximately $45.9 of letters of credit outstanding under its credit facilities. 11 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 5. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities The following table summarizes the fair values of derivative instruments recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets: We have not offset fair value of assets and liabilities recognized for our derivative instruments. Interest Rate Cap In December 2012, the Company entered into four interest rate cap agreements to hedge the risk of a rise in interest rates and associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The Company recorded a premium of $5.0 in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and amortizes the premium to interest expense based upon decreases in time value of the caps. Amortization expense was approximately $0.2 and $0.6 for the three months ending March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The notional amounts of the contracts aggregated were approximately $680.9 as of March31, 2016 and expire in tranches through 2016 . Commodity Futures Contracts The Company utilizes fuel derivative instruments (commodity futures contracts) as economic hedges of the risk that fuel prices will fluctuate. The Company has used financial derivative instruments for both short-term and long-term time frames and utilizes fixed price swap agreements to manage the identified risk. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Changes in the fair value and settlements of the fuel derivative instruments are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and amounted to losses of $0.6 and $5.0 for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The market price of diesel fuel is unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly. Significant volatility in the price of fuel could adversely affect the business and reduce the Company's operating margins. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016, the Company has fuel derivative contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in fuel pricing and as of March31, 2016 the Company has 10.1 gallons under fixed price contracts with strike prices ranging from $2.20 to $2.64 per gallon. If the mean price of the high and the low exceeds the contract price per gallon, the Company receives the difference between the average price and the contract price (multiplied by the notional gallons) from the counterparty. If the mean average price is less than the contract price per gallon, the Company pays the difference to the counterparty. 6. Income Taxes The Company's effective income tax benefit rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was 32.9% and 25.5% , respectively. We evaluate our effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance and the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was primarily due to recording additional valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets. 12 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) As of March31, 2016, we have $9.8 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term "Other liabilities" in our condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. 7. Commitments and Contingencies Financial Instruments The Company has obtained letters of credit, performance bonds and insurance policies for the performance of landfill final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, environmental remediation, and other obligations. Letters of credit are supported by the Company's Revolver. The Company does not expect that any claims against or draws on these instruments would have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company has not experienced any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining the required financial assurance instruments for its current operations. In an ongoing effort to mitigate risks of future cost increases and reductions in available capacity, the Company continues to evaluate various options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance. Insurance The Company carries insurance coverage for protection of its assets and operations from certain risks including automobile liability, general liability, real and personal property, workers' compensation, directors' and officers' liability, pollution, legal liability and other coverages the Company believes are customary to the industry. The Company's exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally limited to the per incident deductible, or self-insured retention, under the related insurance policy. Its exposure, however, could increase if its insurers are unable to meet their commitments on a timely basis. The Company has retained a significant portion of the risks related to its automobile, general liability, workers' compensation and health claims programs. For its self-insured retentions, the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, is based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from the Company's assumptions used. The Company does not expect the impact of any known casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Litigation and Other Matters In February 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries were named as defendants in a purported class action suit in the Circuit Court of Macon County, Alabama. Similar class action complaints were brought against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries in 2011 in Duval County, Florida and in 2013 in Quitman County, Georgia and Barbour County, Alabama, and in 2014 in Chester County, Pennsylvania. The 2013 Georgia complaint was dismissed in March 2014. In late 2015 in Gwinnett County, Georgia, another purported class action suit was filed. The plaintiffs in those cases primarily allege that the defendants charged improper fees (fuel, administrative and environmental fees) that were in breach of the plaintiffs' service agreements with the Company and seek damages in an unspecified amount. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses against these purported class actions, which it will vigorously pursue. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of these cases, the unknown size of any potential class, and legal and factual issues in dispute, the outcome of these cases cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. In November 2014, the Attorney General of the State of Vermont filed a complaint against the Company relating to the Moretown, Vermont landfill regarding alleged odor and other environmental-related noncompliances with environmental laws and regulations and environmental permits. In the complaint, the Attorney General requested that the State of Vermont Superior Court find the Company liable for the alleged noncompliances, issue related civil penalties, and order the Company to reimburse the State of Vermont for enforcement costs. While the complaint does not specify a monetary penalty, prior correspondence from the Attorney General of the State of Vermont indicates that it may seek a penalty relating to the alleged noncompliances that is not expected to be material. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, 13 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) including the early stage of this case, the outcome cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. The Company is subject to various other proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims and regulatory investigations arising in the ordinary course of its business. Many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. Actions filed against the Company include commercial, customer, and employment-related claims. The plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. These actions are in various procedural stages, and some are covered in part by insurance. Although the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome and the range of loss cannot be currently estimated, the Company does not believe that the eventual outcome of any such action could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Multiemployer Defined Benefit Pension Plans Approximately 13% of the Company's workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with various local unions across its operating regions. As a result of some of these agreements, certain of the Company's subsidiaries are participating employers in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer, defined benefit pension plans for the affected employees. In connection with its ongoing renegotiation of various collective bargaining agreements, the Company may discuss and negotiate for the complete or partial withdrawal from one or more of these pension plans. A complete or partial withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan may also occur if employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement vote to decertify a union from continuing to represent them. The Company is not aware of any such actions in connection with continuing operations. As a result of certain discontinued operations, the Company is potentially exposed to certain withdrawal liabilities. The Company does not believe that any future withdrawals, individually or in the aggregate, from the multiemployer plans to which it contributes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or liquidity. However, such withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations for a particular reporting period, depending on the number of employees withdrawn in any future period and the financial condition of the multiemployer plan(s) at the time of such withdrawal(s). Tax Matters The Company has open tax years dating back to 2000 in certain jurisdictions. Prior to the acquisition, MW Star Holdings, Corp. ("Veolia ES Solid Waste division") was part of a consolidated group and is still subject to IRS and state examinations dating back to 2004. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition of Veolia ES Solid Waste, Inc., the Company is entitled to certain indemnifications for Veolia ES Solid Waste Division's pre-acquisition tax liabilities. The Company maintains a liability for uncertain tax positions, the balance of which management believes is adequate. Results of audit assessments by taxing authorities are not currently expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. 8. Segment and Related Information The Company currently manages and evaluates its operations primarily through its South, East and Midwest regional segments. These three groups are presented below as the Company's reportable segments. The Company's three geographic operating segments provide collection, transfer, disposal and recycling services. The Company serves residential, commercial and industrial, and municipal customers throughout its operating regions. Summarized financial information concerning its reportable segments for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 are shown in the table below: 14 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Fluctuations in the Company's operating results may be caused by many factors, including period-to-period changes in the relative contribution of revenue by each line of business and operating segment and by general economic conditions. In addition, its revenues and income from operations typically reflect seasonal patterns. The Company expects its operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in the United States. In addition, some of the Company's operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as hurricanes that most often impact the South region, can increase the Company's revenues in the areas affected. While weather-related and other "one-time" occurrences can boost revenues through additional work, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions, including severe winter storms, may result in the temporary suspension of the Company's operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. 15 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 9. Fair Value Measurements Assets and Liabilities Accounted for at Fair Value In measuring fair values of assets and liabilities, the Company uses valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs (Level 1) and minimize the use of unobservable inputs (Level 3). The Company also uses market data or assumptions that it believes market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including assumptions about risk when appropriate. The carrying value for certain of the Company's financial instruments approximate fair value because of their short-term nature. The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include the following: The fair values of the fuel hedges and interest rate caps are determined using standard option valuation models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets (Level 2 in fair value hierarchy). Fair Value of Debt The fair value of the Company's debt (Level 2) is estimated using indirectly observable market inputs, except for the Revolver for which cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of the interest rate. Although the Company has determined the estimated fair value amounts using quoted market prices, considerable judgment is required in interpreting the information and in developing the estimated fair values. Therefore, these estimates are not necessarily 16 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) indicative of the amounts that the Company, or holders of the instruments, could realize in a current market exchange. The fair value estimates are based on information available as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The estimated fair value of the Company's debt is as follows: The carrying value of the Company's debt at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 was approximately $2,267.5 and $2,267.5 , respectively. 10. Stock-Based Compensation During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , there were no annual, senior management or strategic grant issuances under the Parent's stock option plan. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , 182 annual and senior management options were forfeited and 156 strategic options were forfeited. No annual and senior management options and no strategic options were exercised for the three months ended March 31, 2016. As of March31, 2016 , there were 41,453 options outstanding under the annual and senior management plan and 41,181 outstanding under the strategic plan. The weighted average exercise price of outstanding annual and strategic stock options were $685 and $604 , respectively. The weighted average remaining contractual term for the outstanding annual and senior management stock option plans was 5.8 years as of March 31, 2016. The weighted average remaining contractual terms for the outstanding strategic option plan was 4.5 years years as of March 31, 2016. Total unrecognized compensation expense was approximately $2.8 as of March 31, 2016, which will be recognized over the next 2.2 years for annual awards and 3.1 years for strategic grants. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, compensation expense was approximately $0.4 and $0.7 , respectively. 17 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included under Item1. In addition, you should refer to our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and related Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. All dollar amounts are presented in millions, unless otherwise stated. Overview We are a leading integrated provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services, operating primarily in secondary markets or under exclusive arrangements. We have a presence in 17 states across the Midwest, South and East regions of the United States, serving approximately 2.8 million residential and 215,000 commercial and industrial ("C&I") customers through our extensive network of 92 collection operations, 75 transfer stations, 21 owned or operated recycling facilities and 39 owned or operated landfills. We seek to drive financial performance in markets in which we own or operate a landfill or in certain disposal-neutral markets, where the landfill is owned by our municipal customer. In markets in which we own or operate a landfill, we aim to create and maintain vertically integrated operations through which we manage a majority of our customers' waste from the point of collection through the point of disposal, a process we refer to as internalization. By internalizing a majority of the waste in these markets, we are able to deliver high quality customer service while also ensuring a stable revenue stream and maximizing profitability and cash flow from operations. In disposal-neutral markets, we focus selectively on opportunities where we can negotiate exclusive arrangements with our municipal customers, facilitating highly-efficient and profitable collection operations with lower capital requirements. Geographically, we focus our business principally in secondary, or less densely populated non-urban, markets where the presence of large national providers is generally more limited. We also compete selectively in primary, or densely populated urban, markets where we can capitalize on opportunities for vertical integration through our high-quality transfer and disposal infrastructure and where we can benefit from highly-efficient collection route density. We maintain an attractive mix of revenue from varying sources, including residential collections, C&I collections, landfill gas and special waste streams, and fees charged to third parties for disposal in our network of transfer stations and landfills, with limited exposure to commodity sales. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the periods indicated our consolidated results of operations and the percentage relationship that certain items from our condensed consolidated financial statements bear to revenue (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). Operating income decreased $11.0 or 45.8% to $13.0 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of expenses related to the launch of the initial public offering process, 18 including the amendment of our credit agreement contingent on an initial public offering. Our operating expenses also increased due to higher labor costs and higher repair and maintenance expense which is partially due to one more work day versus the prior year. Additionally, we had higher risk management expenses than in the prior year quarter. These increases were partially offset by lower fuel costs. Revenue Through our subsidiaries, we generate revenue primarily by providing collection and disposal services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. Our remaining revenue is generated from recycling, fuel fees and environmental fees, landfill gas-to-energy operations and other ancillary revenue-generating activities. Revenues from our collection operations consist of fees we receive from municipal, subscription, residential and C&I customers and are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the recycling, transfer station or disposal facilities and our disposal costs. Standard C&I service agreements are typically three to five years, and we have historically maintained strong relationships with our C&I customers. Our municipal customer relationships are generally supported by exclusive contracts ranging from three to ten years in initial duration with subsequent renewal periods. Certain of our municipal contracts have annual price escalation clauses that are tied to changes in an underlying base index such as the consumer price index. We provide commercial front load and temporary and permanent rolloff service offerings to our customers. While the majority of our rolloff services are provided to customers under long-term service agreements, we generally do not enter into contracts with our temporary rolloff customers due to the relatively short-term nature of most construction and demolition ("C&D") projects. Our transfer stations and landfills generate revenue from disposal or tipping fees. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of fees which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue consists of disposal or tipping fees and proceeds from the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The amounts charged for collection, disposal, and recycling services may include fuel fees and environmental fees. Fuel fees and environmental fees are not designed to be specific to the direct costs and expenses to service an individual customer's account, but rather are designed to address and to help recover for changes in our overall cost structure and to achieve an operating margin acceptable to us. Other revenue is comprised of ancillary revenue-generating activities, such as trucking, landfill gas-to-energy operations at municipal solid waste ("MSW") landfills, management of third-party owned landfills, customer service charges relating to overdue payments and customer administrative fees relating to customers who request paper copies of invoices rather than opting for electronic invoices. The following table sets forth our consolidated revenues by line of business for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of total services revenues). Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $333.8 , an increase of $3.4 or 1.0% from revenue of $330.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Revenue increased due to prior year acquisition activity but was offset by divestitures completed in the prior year. The revenue change was impacted by the following: 19 Collection revenue increased by $3.7 or 1.6% , of which $2.1 was from the commercial business and $1.3 was from the rolloff business. These increases were primarily due to the impact of prior year acquisitions and pricing initiatives. Disposal revenue increased by $10.7 or 10.2% , of which $6.1 was from MSW disposal and $4.5 was from C&D disposal. These increases were primarily due to increased volumes in the East and South regions partly due to the milder winter compared to the prior year quarter. The increases were partially offset by a reduction in shale volume of $1.2 as a result of the continued decline in the oil and gas market. Sale of recyclables decreased by $1.5 or 26.3% , primarily due to a divestiture completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. Fuel fees and environmental fees decreased by $1.0 or 5.0% , driven by decreased fuel fees as a result of lower diesel fuel prices which contributed $4.3 partially offset by increased environmental fees of $3.2. Other revenue decreased by $4.1 or 16.9% , primarily due to the sale of a small brokerage business in April 2015 which contributed $3.2 of the decline, as well as landfill gas revenue which contributed $1.1 of the decline. Landfill gas revenue decreased due to the expiration of landfill gas credit agreements and a decline in the market price for landfill gas. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our operating expenses (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). Our operating expenses include the following: Labor and related benefits, which consist of salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits, incentive compensation and payroll taxes. Transfer and disposal costs which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations and transportation and subcontractor costs (which include costs for independent haulers who transport waste from transfer stations to our disposal facilities and costs for local operators who provide waste handling services associated with markets outside our standard operating areas). Maintenance and repairs expenses which include labor, maintenance and repairs to our vehicles, equipment and containers. Fuel costs which include the direct cost of fuel used by our vehicles, net of fuel tax credits. We also incur certain indirect fuel costs in our operations that are not taken into account in the analysis below. Franchise fees and taxes which consist of municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties. Risk management expenses which include casualty insurance premiums and claims payments and estimates for claims incurred but not reported. Other expenses which include expenses such as facility operating costs, equipment rent, leachate treatment and disposal, and other landfill maintenance costs. Accretion expense related to landfill capping, closure and post-closure is included in "Operating" expenses in our condensed consolidated income statements, but, it is excluded from the table below (refer to "Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations" for a detailed discussion of the changes in amounts). 20 The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, excluding accretion expense on our landfill retirement obligations (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): The cost categories shown above may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. Thus, you should exercise caution when comparing our operating expenses by cost component to that of other companies. Operating expenses increased by $5.5 or 2.7% to $209.9 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $204.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The change was due to the following: Labor and related benefits increased by $3.2 or 4.6% to $73.2 which was primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity, and start up costs for new municipal contracts and acquisitions. The increases were partially offset by disposals of certain businesses in the prior year. Maintenance and repairs expense increased by $3.3 or 11.5% to $32 .0. The increase was driven primarily by the implementation of a standardized maintenance plan on our collection fleet and landfill equipment which resulted in increased labor and material costs. Additionally, costs increased as a result of acquisition activity. Fuel costs decreased $5.5 or 31.1% to $12.2 primarily resulting from decreases in fuel prices and converting trucks to compressed natural gas fuel, which is less expensive than diesel fuel. Franchise fees and taxes increased $0.5 or 3.5% to $14.6 primarily due to increased disposal volumes. Risk management expenses increased $2.1 or 33.3% to $8.4 primarily due to increased claim reserves for auto liability, property, and general liability insurance. The first quarter of 2015 had an improvement in the development of existing claims which didn't reoccur in the first quarter of 2016. Other operating costs increased $1.9 or 8.6% to $23.9 primarily due to increased costs required to operate our facilities including leachate treatment and disposal due to wet weather. Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations Accretion expense was $3.3 and $3.5 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease of $0.2 was primarily attributable to the timing of certain capping obligations. For a discussion of factors affecting capping obligations, see the critical accounting policies in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, legal and professional fees and other expenses. Salaries expenses include salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits and incentive compensation for corporate and field general management, field support functions, sales force, accounting and finance, legal, management information systems, and clerical and administrative departments. Other expenses include rent and office costs, fees for professional services provided by third parties, marketing, directors' and officers' insurance, general employee relocation, travel, entertainment and bank charges, but exclude any such amounts recorded as restructuring charges. 21 The following table provides the components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): Our salaries expenses increased by $1.1 or 4.7% primarily attributable to merit increases and acquisition activity. Legal and professional fees increased $7.2 or 288.0% to $9.7 which was primarily the result of expenses related to the launch of the initial public offering process in the amount of $7.2, including the amendment of our credit agreement contingent on an initial public offering. Other selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $0.8 or 6.8% primarily as a result of lower write offs of accounts receivable due to improvements in our credit and collections practices. Depreciation and Amortization The following table summarizes the components of depreciation and amortization expense by asset type (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). For a detailed discussion of depreciation and amortization by asset type refer to the discussion included in the following two sections herein. Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment Depreciation, amortization and depletion expense includes depreciation of fixed assets over the estimated useful life of the assets using the straight-line method, and amortization and depletion of landfill airspace assets under the units-of-consumption method. Refer to the footnotes of the consolidated financial statements in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our accounting policies. The following table summarizes depreciation, amortization and depletion of property and equipment for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment increased by $0.1 to $31.7 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily due to acquisitions completed and new contracts started during the prior period. Landfill depletion and amortization decreased $0.4 to $18.3 for the three months ended March 31, 22 2016 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily due to an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills. The impact of increased deemed permitted airspace was partially offset by increased disposal volumes. Amortization of Other Intangible Assets Amortization of other intangible assets was $10.8 and $10.6 or as a percentage of revenue, 3.2% and 3.2% , for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in amortization expense is directly attributable to increased acquisition activity in the prior year. Acquisitions In the ordinary course of our business, we regularly evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy. We completed four acquisitions during the three months ended March 31, 2016 for a cash purchase price of $1.4 and notes payable of $0.2, subject to net working capital adjustments, which we expect to be completed within approximately one year. The results of operations of each acquisition are included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. Three acquisitions were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2015 for a cash purchase price of $18.6 and notes payable of $3.3. The results of operations of each acquisition are included in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. Other, Net Changes in the fair value and settlements of the fuel derivative instruments are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and amounted to an expense of $0.6 and $5.0 for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Income from equity investee for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively was $0.5 and $0.4. Interest Expense The $0.2 increase in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 is principally due to higher average balances on the Revolver partially offset by lower average balances on the Term Loan B. Income Taxes Our effective income tax benefit rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was 32.9% and 25.5%, respectively. We evaluate our effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance and the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was primarily due to recording additional valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets. Reportable Segments Our operations are managed through three geographic regions (South, East and Midwest) that we designate as our reportable segments. Revenues and operating income/(loss) for our reportable segments for the periods indicated, are shown in the following tables: 23 Comparison of Reportable Segments- Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 South Segment Revenue decreased $1.3 or 1.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The decline in revenue is primarily the result of the divestiture of businesses in the prior year of $5.2, reduced fuel recovery fees of $1.2 due to lower fuel prices, and reduced landfill gas revenue of $0.9 due to the expiration of landfill gas credit agreements and a decline in the market price for landfill gas. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in disposal revenue of $3.1, of which $1.6 relates to MSW and special waste volumes disposed of at our landfills and $1.5 relates to waste volumes disposed of at our transfer stations primarily in the Atlanta market. Collection revenue increased by $1.6 primarily due to acquisitions completed in the prior year. Additionally, environmental fees increased $0.7. Operating income from our South Segment decreased by $2.9 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The decline in operating income is primarily the result of higher labor costs of $2.0 due to increased headcount, merit increases, and the impact of start up costs for new municipal contracts and acquisitions. We had higher disposal fees of $1.7 associated with the disposal revenue increase discussed above. Repair and maintenance costs increased $1.6 driven primarily by the implementation of a standardized maintenance plan on our collection fleet and landfill equipment which resulted in increased labor and material costs. Additionally, higher insurance expense of $0.7 was due to the first quarter of 2015 having an improvement in the development of existing claims which didn't reoccur in the first quarter of 2016. Partially offsetting the declines was lower fuel costs of $2.2 as a result of lower diesel fuel prices. East Segment Revenue increased by $4.0 , or 4.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Collection revenue increased by $2.6 of which $1.4 was related to prior year acquisitions while the remaining was the result of pricing initiatives. Disposal revenue increased by $3.5 driven by higher volumes and environmental fees increased by $0.8. The increases were partially offset by decreases in shale volumes of $1.2, decreases in fuel cost recovery fees of $0.6 as a result of lower fuel prices, and decreases in trucking revenue of $0.4. Operating income from our East Segment remained consistent at $3.5 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Offsetting the revenue increases discussed above were higher direct expenses associated to collection revenue and disposal revenue of $3.0, higher repair and maintenance costs of $0.6, and various other expenses of $1.8. Partially offsetting the higher expenses was the impact of lower fuel prices of $1.4. 24 Midwest Segment Revenue increased $0.7 or 0.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to higher roll-off collection volume of $1.8, higher environmental fees of $1.6, and higher commercial collection volume of $0.7. Partially offsetting the increase were decreases in fuel cost recovery fees as a result of lower fuel prices of $2.5 and lower residential volume of $0.9 due to the loss of certain contracts. Operating income from our Midwest Segment increased by $0.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The increase was due to lower fuel costs of $1.9 as a result of lower fuel prices. The increase was partially offset by $1.0 of costs directly associated with the increase in revenue discussed above. Additionally, repairs and maintenance expense increased $0.6 and insurance expense increased $0.5 due to the first quarter of 2015 having an improvement in the development of existing claims which didn't reoccur in the first quarter of 2016. Corporate Region Operating loss increased $8.6 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , primarily due to $7.2 in expenses related to the launch of the initial public offering process, including the amendment of our credit agreement contingent on an initial public offering. Additionally, we had restructuring expenses during the quarter of $0.8. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operations, bank borrowings and debt offerings. We intend to use excess cash on hand and cash from operating activities, together with bank borrowings, to fund purchases of property and equipment, working capital, acquisitions and debt repayments. Actual debt repayments may include purchases of our outstanding indebtedness in the secondary market or otherwise. We believe that our current cash balances, cash from operating activities and funds available under our Revolver will provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our anticipated capital requirements and maturing obligations as they come due. At March31, 2016 , the Company had negative working capital which was driven by purchases of property and equipment and construction and development during the first quarter as well as the use of our cash to fund debt repayments and to return capital to the parent. At December 31, 2015, we had negative working capital which was driven by repayments on the Term Loan B and cash used for acquisitions. The Company has more than adequate availability on its Revolver to fund short term working capital requirements. Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Debt Obligations The table below presents a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and debt balances (in millions): Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following table sets forth for the periods indicated a summary of our cash flows (in millions): 25 Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities We generated $54.0 of cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2016 , compared with $78.5 during the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The decrease of $24.5 was driven primarily by a higher net loss, a lower increase to accrued expenses, a lower decrease to the accounts receivable balance, and higher capping, closure and post closure expenditures. The Company's net working capital initiatives to drive lower days sales outstanding and higher days payable outstanding did not have as large of an impact in the current quarter as it did in the prior year quarter. Cash flows from operations are used to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, interest payments and debt repayments. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities We used $39.7 of cash in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with $73.8 during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , a decrease of $34.1 , which was primarily attributable to reduced capital spending of $17.0 and reduced acquisition spending of $17.0. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash used in financing activities was $14.4 compared to $4.1 during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , an increase of $10.3 . The increase is primarily due to higher repayments of long term debt during the first quarter compared to the prior year quarter. Senior Secured Credit Facilities In November 2012, we entered into (i)a $1,800.0 term loan B facility (the "Term Loan B") and (ii)a $300.0 Revolver (the "Revolver") and together with the Term Loan B, (the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities") with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as administrative agent, and affiliates of Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Macquarie Capital (USA) Inc., UBS Securities LLC and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, and other lenders from time to time party thereto and effected re-pricing transactions on the Term Loan B in February 2014 and February 2013, that reduced the applicable interest rate floor by 50 basis points and the applicable margin by 100 basis points, respectively. See Note 4, Debt, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , for additional details regarding our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities can be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. As of March31, 2016 , we had an aggregate committed capacity of $300.0 , of which $100.0 was available for letters of credit. At both March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had an aggregate of approximately $45.9 of letters of credit outstanding. At both March31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had $32.0 of borrowings on the Revolver. The agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities requires us to comply with certain financial and other covenants, including a total leverage ratio for the benefit of the lenders under the Revolver that is applicable when there are outstanding loans or letters of credit under the Revolver. Compliance with these covenants is a condition to any incremental borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and failure to meet these covenants would enable the lenders to require repayment of any outstanding loans (which would adversely affect our liquidity). As of March31, 2016 , we were in compliance with the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants will be highly dependent on our results of operations and, to the extent necessary, our ability to implement remedial measures such as reductions in operating costs. We are subject to a total leverage ratio covenant for the applicable periods as indicated. At March31, 2016 , the total leverage ratio was 6.18:1:00. 26 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2020 On October9, 2012, we issued $550.0 aggregate principal amount of 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2020 pursuant to an indenture between the Company, the guarantor party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. As of March31, 2016 , we were in compliance with the covenants under the Indenture. See Note 4, Debt, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding the notes. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance instruments and operating leases, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. Seasonality We expect our operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in the U.S. In addition, some of our operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items Uncertain Tax Positions-As of March31, 2016 , we have $9.8 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of "Other long-term liabilities" in our condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. Financial Assurance We must provide financial assurance to governmental agencies and a variety of other entities under applicable environmental regulations relating to our landfill operations for capping, closure and post-closure costs, and related to our performance under certain collection, landfill and transfer station contracts. We satisfy these financial assurance requirements by providing surety bonds and letters of credit. The amount of the financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs is determined by applicable state environmental regulations. The financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs may be associated with a portion of the landfill or the entire landfill. Generally, states require a third-party engineering specialist to determine the estimated capping, closure and post-closure costs that are used to determine the required amount of financial assurance for a landfill. The amount of financial assurance required can, and generally will, differ from the obligation determined and recorded under U.S. GAAP. The amount of the financial assurance requirements related to contract performance varies by contract. Additionally, we must provide financial assurance for our insurance program and collateral for certain performance obligations. We do not expect a material increase in financial assurance requirements in the foreseeable future, although the mix of financial assurance instruments may change. These financial instruments are issued in the normal course of business and are not considered company indebtedness. Because we currently have no liability for these financial assurance instruments, they are not reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. However, we record capping, closure and post-closure liabilities and self-insurance liabilities as they are incurred. The underlying obligations of the financial assurance instruments, in excess of those already reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets, would be recorded if it is probable that we would be unable to fulfill our related obligations. We do not expect this to occur. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in 27 the business environment. However, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. Critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require management's most subjective judgments. A summary of significant accounting policies is disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our critical accounting policies are further described under the caption "Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recently Issued and Proposed Accounting Standards In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases, which will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset with a corresponding lease liability, and lessors to recognize a net lease investment. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures will also be required to increase transparency and comparability among organizations. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of the standard is permitted. Lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented. While the Company is still assessing the impact of this standard, it does not believe this standard will have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance. The new standard requires that a company recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Companies will need to use more judgment and estimates than under the guidance currently in effect, including estimating the amount of variable revenue to recognize over each identified performance obligation. Additional disclosures will be required to help users of financial statements understand the nature, amount and timing of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts. In July 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date. This standard will now become effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter 2018 and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on the consolidated financial statements and has not selected a transition method.Item 1. Financial Statements Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholder's Equity (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 1. Business Operations Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. (formerly ADS Waste Holdings Inc. hereafter referred to as the Company) together with its consolidated subsidiaries, as a consolidated entity, is a nonhazardous solid waste services company providing collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services to customers in the South, Midwest and Eastern regions of the United States, as well as in the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. The Company is wholly owned by ADS Waste Holdings Corp. (the "Parent"). The Company manages and evaluates its principal operations through three reportable operating segments on a regional basis. Those operating segments are the South, East and Midwest regions which provide collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services. Additional information related to segments can be found in Note 8. Six acquisitions were completed during the six months ended June 30, 2016 for aggregate prices consisting of a cash purchase price of $4.9 and notes payable of $0.3 , subject to net working capital adjustments, which are expected to be completed within approximately one year. Seven acquisitions were completed during the six months ended June 30, 2015 for a cash purchase price of $23.8 and notes payable of $3.3 . The results of operations of each acquisition are included in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. The Company recorded a reduction to the purchase price of prior year acquisitions during the six months ended June 30, 2016 in the amount of $0.2 . The Company is still reviewing information surrounding intangible assets and current liabilities related to acquisitions completed subsequent to June 30, 2015. 2. Basis of Presentation The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements include its wholly-owned subsidiaries of Advanced Disposal Services South, Inc. and HW Star Holdings Corp. and their respective subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements as of June30, 2016 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 are unaudited. In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, which, unless otherwise disclosed, are of a normal recurring nature, necessary for a fair statement of the balance sheet, results of operations, comprehensive loss, cash flows, and changes in equity for the periods presented. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the entire year. The financial statements presented herein should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . In conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Company uses estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that it uses is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In preparing the Company's financial statements, the more subjective areas that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to: accounting for long-lived assets, including recoverability; landfill development costs, final capping, closure and post-closure costs; valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets; liabilities for potential litigation; claims and assessments; liabilities for environmental remediation; stock compensation; accounting for goodwill and intangible asset impairments; deferred taxes; uncertain tax positions; self-insurance reserves; and estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that the Company uses in preparation of its financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), which simplifies the accounting for employee stock-based payment transactions, including the accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as classification in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the timing of the adoption and the potential impact this guidance may have on its consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases , which will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset with a corresponding lease liability, and lessors to recognize a net lease investment. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures will also be required to increase transparency and comparability among organizations. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of the standard is permitted, however; the Company does not expect to early adopt the ASU. Lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented. While the Company is still assessing the impact of this standard, it does not believe this standard will have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance. The new standard requires that a company recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Companies will need to use more judgment and estimates than under the guidance currently in effect, including estimating the amount of variable revenue to recognize over each identified performance obligation. Additional disclosures will be required to help users of financial statements understand the nature, amount and timing of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts. In July 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date. This standard will now become effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter 2018 and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on the consolidated financial statements and has not selected a transition method. 3. Landfill Liabilities Liabilities for final closure and post-closure costs for the year ended December31, 2015 and for the six months ended June30, 2016 are shown in the table below: 4. Debt The following table summarizes the major components of debt at each balance sheet date and provides the maturities and interest rate ranges of each major category of debt: 10 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) All borrowings under the Term Loan B and the Revolver are guaranteed by each of the Company's current and future U.S. subsidiaries (which also guarantee the Senior Notes), subject to certain agreed-upon exemptions. The Company has one non-guarantor foreign subsidiary as disclosed in Note 11. All guarantors are jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally liable. The Parent has no independent assets or operations and each subsidiary guarantor is 100% owned by the Company. There are no significant restrictions on the Company or any guarantor to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan. Revolver and Letter of Credit Facilities As of June30, 2016 , the Company had an aggregate committed capacity of $300.0 , of which $100.0 was available for letters of credit under its credit facilities. The Company's Revolver is its primary source of letter of credit capacity and expires in October 2017. As of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had $11.0 and $32.0 of borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, respectively. As of June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had an aggregate of approximately $46.0 and $45.9 , respectively, of letters of credit outstanding under its credit facilities. 5. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities The following table summarizes the fair values of derivative instruments recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets: The Company has not offset fair value of assets and liabilities recognized for its derivative instruments. 11 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Interest Rate Caps In December 2012, the Company entered into four interest rate cap agreements to hedge the risk of a rise in interest rates and associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The Company recorded a premium of $5.0 in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and amortized the premium to interest expense based upon decreases in time value of the caps. Amortization expense was approximately $0.0 and $0.4 for the three months ending June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively and for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $0.2 and $1.0 , respectively. The notional amounts of the aggregated contracts were approximately $666.6 as of June30, 2016 and expire in tranches through September 2016 . In May 2016, the Company entered into three interest rate cap agreements as economic hedges against the risk of a rise in interest rates and the associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The Company will pay the $5.5 premium of the caps equally over eleven quarters beginning on March 31, 2017. The Company elected not to apply hedge accounting to these interest rate caps therefore changes in the fair value of the interest rate caps are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded losses of $2.8 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. The notional value of the contracts aggregated were $800 as of June 30, 2016 and will remain constant through maturity in September 2019. Commodity Futures Contracts The Company utilizes fuel derivative instruments (commodity futures contracts) as economic hedges of the risk that fuel prices will fluctuate. The Company has used financial derivative instruments for both short-term and long-term time frames and utilizes fixed price swap agreements to manage the identified risk. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Changes in the fair value and settlements of the fuel derivative instruments are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and were income of $2.1 and $4.8 for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were $1.5 and ($0.2) , respectively. As of June30, 2016 , the Company has 6.7 gallons under fixed price derivative contracts with strike prices ranging from $2.20 to $2.64 per gallon. If the mean price of the high and the low exceeds the contract price per gallon, the Company receives the difference between the average price and the contract price (multiplied by the notional gallons) from the counterparty. If the mean average price is less than the contract price per gallon, the Company pays the difference to the counterparty. 6. Income Taxes The Company's effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was 90.5% and 38.4% , respectively. The Company evaluates its effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses included in stock based compensation. These items had a greater impact on the Company's effective income tax rate during the three months ended June 30, 2016 than in comparable prior periods due to the Company's pre-tax earnings being near break-even for the three month period ending June 30, 2016. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to the mix of income in the states in which the Company operates. The Company's effective income tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was 26.6% and 32.0% , respectively. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income tax benefit for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses and the unfavorable impact of a change in recorded valuation allowance. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of a change in recorded valuation allowance. As of June 30, 2016, the Company has $10.0 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term "Other liabilities" in the condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. The Company is not able to reasonably estimate when it would make any cash payments to settle these liabilities, but it does not believe that the ultimate settlement of the obligations will materially affect its liquidity. 12 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 7. Commitments and Contingencies Financial Instruments The Company has obtained letters of credit, performance bonds and insurance policies for the performance of landfill final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, environmental remediation, and other obligations. Letters of credit are supported by the Company's Revolver (Note 4). The Company does not expect that any claims against or draws on these instruments would have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company has not experienced any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining the required financial assurance instruments for its current operations. In an ongoing effort to mitigate risks of future cost increases and reductions in available capacity, the Company continues to evaluate various options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance. Insurance The Company carries insurance coverage for protection of its assets and operations from certain risks including automobile liability, general liability, real and personal property, workers compensation, directors and officers liability, pollution, legal liability and other coverages the Company believes are customary to the industry. The Company's exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally limited to the per incident deductible, or self-insured retention, under the related insurance policy. Its exposure, however, could increase if its insurers are unable to meet their commitments on a timely basis. The Company has retained a significant portion of the risks related to its automobile, general liability, workers compensation and health claims programs. For its self-insured retentions, the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, is based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from the Company's assumptions used. The Company does not expect the impact of any known casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Litigation and Other Matters In February 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries were named as defendants in a purported class action suit in the Circuit Court of Macon County, Alabama. Similar class action complaints were brought against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries in 2011 in Duval County, Florida and in 2013 in Quitman County, Georgia and Barbour County, Alabama, and in 2014 in Chester County, Pennsylvania. The 2013 Georgia complaint was dismissed in March 2014. In late 2015 in Gwinnett County, Georgia, another purported class action suit was filed. The plaintiffs in those cases primarily allege that the defendants charged improper fees (fuel, administrative and environmental fees) that were in breach of the plaintiffs' service agreements with the Company and seek damages in an unspecified amount. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses against these purported class actions, which it will vigorously pursue. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of these cases, the unknown size of any potential class, and legal and factual issues in dispute, the outcome of these cases cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. In November 2014, the Attorney General of the State of Vermont filed a complaint against the Company relating to the Moretown, Vermont landfill regarding alleged odor and other environmental-related noncompliances with environmental laws and regulations and environmental permits. In the complaint, the Attorney General requested that the State of Vermont Superior Court find the Company liable for the alleged noncompliances, issue related civil penalties, and order the Company to reimburse the State of Vermont for enforcement costs. While the complaint does not specify a monetary penalty, prior correspondence from the Attorney General of the State of Vermont indicates that it may seek a penalty relating to the alleged noncompliances that is not expected to be material. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of this case, the outcome cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. The Company is subject to various other proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims and regulatory investigations arising in the ordinary course of its business. Many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. Actions filed against the Company include commercial, customer, and employment-related claims. The plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. These actions are in various procedural stages, and some are covered in part by insurance. Although the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome and the 13 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) range of loss cannot be currently estimated, the Company does not believe that the eventual outcome of any such action could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Multiemployer Defined Benefit Pension Plans Approximately 13% of the Company's workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with various local unions across its operating regions. As a result of some of these agreements, certain of the Company's subsidiaries are participating employers in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer, defined benefit pension plans for the affected employees. In connection with its ongoing renegotiation of various collective bargaining agreements, the Company may discuss and negotiate for the complete or partial withdrawal from one or more of these pension plans. A complete or partial withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan may also occur if employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement vote to decertify a union from continuing to represent them. The Company is not aware of any such actions in connection with continuing operations. As a result of certain discontinued operations, the Company is potentially exposed to certain withdrawal liabilities. The Company does not believe that any future withdrawals, individually or in the aggregate, from the multiemployer plans to which it contributes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or liquidity. However, such withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations for a particular reporting period, depending on the number of employees withdrawn in any future period and the financial condition of the multiemployer plan(s) at the time of such withdrawal(s). Tax Matters The Company has open tax years dating back to 2000 in certain jurisdictions. Prior to the acquisition, MW Star Holdings, Corp. (Veolia ES Solid Waste division) was part of a consolidated group and is still subject to IRS and state examinations dating back to 2004. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition of Veolia ES Solid Waste, Inc., the Company is entitled to certain indemnifications for Veolia ES Solid Waste Division's pre-acquisition tax liabilities. The Company maintains a liability for uncertain tax positions, the balance of which management believes is adequate. Results of audit assessments by taxing authorities are not currently expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. 8. Segment and Related Information The Company manages and evaluates its operations primarily through its South, East and Midwest regional segments. These three groups are presented below as the Company's reportable segments. The Company's three geographic operating segments provide collection, transfer, disposal and recycling services. The Company serves residential, commercial and industrial, and municipal customers throughout its operating regions. Summarized financial information concerning its reportable segments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 are shown in the table below: 14 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Fluctuations in the Company's operating results may be caused by many factors, including period-to-period changes in the relative contribution of revenue by each line of business and operating segment and by general economic conditions. In addition, its revenues and income from operations typically reflect seasonal patterns. The Company expects its operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring in the East and Midwest segments because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in these regions of the United States. In addition, some of the Company's operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as hurricanes that most often impact the South region, can increase the Company's revenues in the areas affected. While weather-related and other occurrences can boost revenues through additional work, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions, including severe 15 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) winter storms, may result in the temporary suspension of the Company's operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. No such events have occurred during the periods presented. 9. Fair Value Measurements Assets and Liabilities Accounted for at Fair Value In measuring fair values of assets and liabilities, the Company uses valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs (Level 1) and minimize the use of unobservable inputs (Level 3). The Company also uses market data or assumptions that it believes market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including assumptions about risk when appropriate. The carrying value for certain of the Company's financial instruments approximate fair value because of their short-term nature. The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include the following: The fair values of the fuel derivative instruments and interest rate caps are determined using standard option valuation models with assumptions about commodity prices and interest rates based on those observed in underlying markets (Level 2 in fair value hierarchy). Fair Value of Debt The fair value of the Company's debt (Level 2) is estimated using indirectly observable market inputs, except for the Revolver for which cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of the interest rate. Although the Company 16 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) has determined the estimated fair value amounts using quoted market prices, considerable judgment is required in interpreting the information and in developing the estimated fair values. Therefore, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company, or holders of the instruments, could realize in a current market exchange. The fair value estimates are based on information available as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The estimated fair value of the Company's debt is as follows: The carrying value of the Company's debt at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 was approximately $2,246.5 and $2,267.5 , respectively. 10. Stock-Based Compensation Amendment to Stock Incentive Plan During the second quarter of 2016, the Board of Directors of the Parent amended the Advanced Disposal Waste Holdings Corp. 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan) to allow for the grant of performance shares, restricted shares, restricted share units, and other equity awards in addition to stock options and stock purchase rights as originally provided for under the 2012 Plan. Named Executive Officer (NEO) Grants During the second quarter of 2016, there were 637 NEO restricted stock grants under the 2012 Plan with a fair value of $1,158.29 per share. The restricted stock will vest in three equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of the grant. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, none of the NEO restricted stock was forfeited. As of June 30, 2016, there were 637 shares of restricted stock outstanding under the 2012 Plan. During the second quarter of 2016, there were 1,274 NEO performance share units (PSUs) issued under the 2012 Plan with a fair value of $1,158.29 per share. The PSU's will vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of the grant. The PSU's shall be measured based on the Parent's budget and are weighted as follows: EBITDA: 50% ; Free Cash Flow: 30% ; and Revenue: 20% . The measurement criteria begin with an attainment of 90% of the budget which results in vesting of 25% of the shares underlying the PSU's granted and ends with an attainment of 110% of the budget which results in vesting of 175% of the shares underlying the PSU's granted. Performance will be measured separately for each of the three years in the performance period and the total number of PSU's earned at the conclusion of the three year performance period will be the sum of the PSU's earned with respect to each individual year. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, none of the NEO PSU's were forfeited. As of June 30, 2016, there were 1,274 PSU's outstanding under the 2012 Plan. During the second quarter of 2016, there were 2,032 NEO option grants under the 2012 Plan. The options will vest in three equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of the grant. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, none of these NEO options were forfeited or exercised. As of June 30, 2016, there were 2,032 options outstanding under the NEO plan. The weighted average exercise price of outstanding NEO options was $1,158.29 . The weighted average remaining contractual term for the outstanding NEO options was ten years as of June 30, 2016. During the second quarter of 2016, the Company and its Chief Executive Officer (CEO), entered into an amendment to the CEO's employment agreement. The amendment adjusts the performance criteria applicable to performance-based stock options that the CEO is eligible to earn with respect to 2016. Previously, the only applicable criterion was EBITDA; the amendment provides that the number of performance-based stock options earned will be based on EBITDA ( 50% ) and free cash flow ( 50% ). The amendment also clarifies that the full potential grant of performance-based stock options (covering up to 4,000 shares of Parent's common stock) is still available to be earned by the CEO. Total unrecognized compensation expense for all of the above NEO grants (including the impact of the amendment to the CEO performance-based stock options) was approximately $3.7 as of June 30, 2016, which will be recognized over the next 3.5 years . For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, compensation expense for all of the above NEO grants 17 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) (including the impact of the amendment to the CEO performance-based stock options) was approximately $0.0 due to the awards being granted during the last week of the second quarter. Annual Stock Option Grants During the second quarter of 2016, there were 11,656 annual grants under the 2012 Plan for employees other than the NEO's. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 , 1,803 annual options were forfeited. No annual options were exercised for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Total unrecognized compensation expense for the annual awards was approximately $4.1 as of June 30, 2016, which will be recognized over the next 3.1 years. For the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, compensation expense for the annual options was approximately $1.0 and $0.2 , respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, compensation expense for the annual options was $1.2 and $0.7 , respectively. Strategic Stock Option Grants During the six months ended June 30, 2016, there were no strategic grant issuances under the 2012 Plan. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, 1,481 strategic options were forfeited. No strategic options were exercised for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Total unrecognized compensation expense for the strategic awards was approximately $1.6 as of June 30, 2016, which will be recognized over the next 2.9 years. For the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, compensation expense for the strategic options was approximately $0.2 and $0.3 , respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, compensation expense for the strategic options was $0.4 and $0.5 , respectively. 11. Guarantor Financial Statements All borrowings under the Term Loan B and the Revolver are guaranteed by each of the Company's current and future U.S. subsidiaries (which also guarantee the Senior Notes), subject to certain agreed-upon exemptions. The Company has one non-guarantor foreign subsidiary, Sanitation Services Company Limited, which exceeded 3% of pretax income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. As a result, the Company is providing the following condensed consolidating financial information in accordance with SEC disclosure requirements. Prior periods are not presented as the non guarantor subsidiary was minor. 18 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2016 19 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended June 30, 2016 20 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the six months ended June 30, 2016 21 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the six months ended June 30, 2016 22 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 12. Subsequent Events Return of Capital to the Parent On August 3, 2016, the Board of Directors approved $10.6 of capital to be returned to the parent. Amendment to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement On August 4, 2016, the Company entered into an amendment to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement dated October 9, 2012. The amendment, among other things, extended the maturity date with respect to approximately $280.0 of the Company's $300.0 commitments under the revolving credit facility to October 2019. 23 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included under Item1. In addition, you should refer to our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and related Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. All dollar amounts are presented in millions, unless otherwise stated. Overview We are a leading integrated provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services, operating primarily in secondary markets or under exclusive arrangements. We have a presence in 16 states across the Midwest, South and East regions of the United States, serving approximately 2.8 million residential and 221,000 commercial and industrial (C&I) customers through our extensive network of 92 collection operations, 72 transfer stations, 21 owned or operated recycling facilities and 39 owned or operated landfills. We seek to drive financial performance in markets in which we own or operate a landfill or in certain disposal-neutral markets, where the landfill is owned by our municipal customer. In markets in which we own or operate a landfill, we aim to create and maintain vertically integrated operations through which we manage a majority of our customers' waste from the point of collection through the point of disposal, a process we refer to as internalization. By internalizing a majority of the waste in these markets, we are able to deliver high quality customer service while also ensuring a stable revenue stream and maximizing profitability and cash flow from operations. In disposal-neutral markets, we focus selectively on opportunities where we can negotiate exclusive arrangements with our municipal customers, facilitating highly-efficient and profitable collection operations with lower capital requirements. Geographically, we focus our business principally in secondary, or less densely populated non-urban, markets where the presence of large national providers is generally more limited. We also compete selectively in primary, or densely populated urban, markets where we can capitalize on opportunities for vertical integration through our high-quality transfer and disposal infrastructure and where we can benefit from highly-efficient collection route density. We maintain an attractive mix of revenue from varying sources, including residential collections, C&I collections, landfill gas and special waste streams, and fees charged to third parties for disposal in our network of transfer stations and landfills. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the periods indicated our consolidated results of operations and the percentage relationship that certain items from our condensed consolidated financial statements bear to revenue (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). 24 Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Operating income increased $22.4 or 163.5% to $36.1 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily the result of losses on disposal of businesses and impairment charges recorded in the 2015 period of $17.4 relating to strategic decisions regarding divestitures in the South segment and discontinuing the pursuit of permitting at one landfill site. Additionally, the increase was due to higher environmental fees of $2.9 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015 and lower net fuel costs of $1.3 due to lower diesel fuel prices. Additional offsetting variances are described in the detailed discussion later in the MD&A. Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Operating income increased $11.4 or 30.2% to $49.1 for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily the result of losses on disposal of businesses and impairment charges recorded in the 2015 period of $17.4 relating to strategic decisions regarding divestitures in the South segment and discontinuing the pursuit of permitting at one landfill site. The increase in operating income was partially offset by expenses of $7.1 related to the launch of the February initial public offering process, including the amendment of our credit agreement contingent on an initial public offering. Additional offsetting variances are described in the detailed discussion later in the MD&A. Revenue Through our subsidiaries, we generate revenue primarily by providing collection and disposal services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. Our remaining revenue is generated from recycling, fuel and environmental fees, landfill gas-to-energy operations and other ancillary revenue-generating activities. Revenues from our collection operations consist of fees we receive from municipal, subscription, residential and commercial and industrial ("C&I") customers and are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the recycling, transfer station or disposal facilities and our disposal costs. Standard C&I service agreements are typically three to five years, and we have historically maintained strong relationships with our C&I customers. Our municipal customer relationships are generally supported by exclusive contracts ranging from three to ten years in initial duration with subsequent renewal periods. Certain municipal contracts have annual price escalation clauses that are tied to changes in an underlying base index such as the consumer price index. We provide commercial front load and temporary and permanent rolloff service offerings to our commercial customers. While the majority of our rolloff services are provided to customers under long-term service agreements, we generally do not enter into contracts with our temporary rolloff customers due to the relatively short-term nature of most construction and demolition (C&D) projects. Our transfer stations and landfills generate revenue from disposal or tipping fees. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of fees which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue consists of disposal or tipping fees and proceeds from the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The amounts charged for collection, disposal, and recycling services may include fuel fees and environmental fees. Fuel fees and environmental fees are not designed to be specific to the direct costs and expenses to service an individual customer's account, but rather are designed to address and to help recover for changes in our overall cost structure and to achieve an operating margin acceptable to us. Other revenue is comprised of ancillary revenue-generating activities, such as trucking, landfill gas-to-energy operations at municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills, management of third-party owned landfills, customer service charges relating to overdue payments and customer administrative fees relating to customers who request paper copies of invoices rather than opting for electronic invoices. The following table sets forth our consolidated revenues by line of business for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of total services revenues). 25 Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $358.2 , an increase of $3.0 or 0.8% from revenue of $355.2 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The revenue change was impacted by the following: Collection revenue increased by $1.9 or 0.8% of which $1.7 was from the commercial business resulting from acquisitions and pricing initiatives across all segments and $0.9 in the residential business due to acquisitions and new contracts in the South and East segments partially offset by the loss of residential contracts in the Midwest segment. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.7 from our rolloff business due to lower shale volumes in the East segment as a result of the continued decline in the oil and gas market and lower volume in the Midwest segment. Disposal revenue increased by $4.9 or 3.7% due to increased volume across all waste streams, except shale, most notably in our East and South segments. Sale of recyclables decreased by $0.6 or 9.8% primarily due to a divestiture completed in the fourth quarter of 2015 which accounted for a variance of $1.0, partially offset by price increases of certain recycled commodities. Fuel fees and environmental fees remained flat at $20.9 driven by decreased fuel fees as a result of lower diesel fuel prices offset by increased environmental fees due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015. Other revenue decreased by $1.1 or 5.6% , primarily due to lower revenue related to ancillary shale related services. Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $692.0, an increase of $6.5 or 0.9% from revenue of $685.5 for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The revenue change was impacted by the following: Collection revenue increased by $5.6 or 1.2% of which $3.7 was from the commercial business due to acquisitions and pricing initiatives, $1.3 from the residential business due to acquisitions and new contracts in the South and East segments partially offset by the loss of residential contracts in the Midwest segment, and $0.6 from the rolloff business due to lower shale volumes in the East segment and lower volume in the Midwest segment partially offset by price and volume growth in our South segment. Disposal revenue increased by $15.6 or 6.5% due to increased volume across all waste streams, except shale, most notably in our South and East segments. Sale of recyclables decreased by $2.1 or 17.8%, primarily due to a divestiture completed in the fourth quarter of 2015 which accounted for $2.0 of the variance. Fuel fees and environmental fees decreased by $1.1 or 2.7%, driven by decreased fuel fees as a result of lower diesel fuel prices which contributed $7.2 partially offset by increased environmental fees of $6.1 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015. 26 Other revenue decreased by $4.9 or 11.2%, due to the sale of a small brokerage business in April 2015 which contributed $3.2 of the decline, lower trucking revenue of $1.6 due to lower volume of special waste projects and a reduction in landfill gas revenue which contributed $1.3 of the decline. Landfill gas revenue decreased due to the expiration of landfill gas credit agreements and a decline in the market price for landfill gas. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our operating expenses (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). Our operating expenses include the following: Labor and related benefits, which consist of salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits, incentive compensation and payroll taxes. Transfer and disposal costs which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations as well as transportation and subcontractor costs (which include costs for independent haulers who transport waste from transfer stations to our disposal facilities and costs for local operators who provide waste handling services associated with markets outside our standard operating areas). Maintenance and repairs expenses which include labor, maintenance and repairs to our vehicles, equipment and containers. Fuel costs which include the direct cost of fuel used by our vehicles, net of fuel tax credits. Franchise fees and taxes which consist of municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties. Risk management expenses which include casualty insurance premiums and claims payments and estimates for claims incurred but not reported. Other expenses which include expenses such as facility operating costs, equipment rent, leachate treatment and disposal, and other landfill maintenance costs. Accretion expense related to landfill capping, closure and post-closure is included in operating expenses in our condensed consolidated income statements, but, it is excluded from the table below (refer to "Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations" for a detailed discussion of the changes in amounts). The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, excluding accretion expense on our landfill retirement obligations (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): 27 The cost categories shown above may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. Thus, you should exercise caution when comparing our operating expenses by cost component to that of other companies. Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Operating expenses decreased by $1.9 or 0.9% to $215.8 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $217.7 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The change was due to the following: Labor and related benefits increased by $1.5 or 2.1% to $73.1 which was primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity and startup costs for new municipal contracts and acquisitions. The increases were partially offset by disposals of certain businesses in the prior year and a $0.2 reduction in workers compensation costs. Transfer and disposal costs decreased by $1.6 or 3.2% to $48.0 primarily due to increased internalization of waste in the Midwest segment and decreased trucking expense related to special waste projects. Maintenance and repairs expense increased by $1.7 or 5.4% to $33.1 . The increase was driven primarily by the implementation of a standardized maintenance plan on our collection fleet and landfill equipment which resulted in increased labor and material costs. Additionally, costs increased $0.5 as a result of start up costs for new municipal contracts and acquisitions. Fuel costs decreased $4.5 or 24.3% to $14.0 primarily resulting from decreases in fuel prices and converting trucks to compressed natural gas fuel, which is less expensive than diesel fuel. Franchise fees and taxes decreased $1.2 or 6.6% to $17.0 primarily due to changes in the mix of waste in the Midwest segment. Risk management expenses increased $0.3 or 4.5% to $6.9 primarily due to the favorable settlement of a large legacy claim in the prior year quarter. Other operating costs increased $1.9 or 8.7% to $23.7 primarily due to increased landfill site and other facility operating expenses of $1.3. Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Operating expenses increased by $3.6 or 0.9% to $425.8 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 from $422.2 for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The change was due to the following: 28 Labor and related benefits increased by $4.7 or 3.3% to $146.3 which was primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity, startup costs for new municipal contracts and acquisitions. The increases were partially offset by disposals of certain businesses in the prior year and a $1.2 reduction in workers compensation costs. Transfer and disposal costs decreased by $1.7 or 1.8% to $93.6 due to the sale of a small brokerage business in April 2015 which contributed $3.8 of the decline and increased internalization in the Midwest. These decreases were partially offset by increased container weights during the first quarter of 2016. Maintenance and repairs expense increased by $5.2 or 8.7% to $65.2. The increase was driven primarily by the implementation of a standardized maintenance plan on our collection fleet and landfill equipment which resulted in increased labor and material costs. Additionally, costs increased $1.6 as a result of start up costs for new municipal contracts and acquisitions. Fuel costs decreased $9.9 or 27.4% to $26.2 primarily resulting from decreases in fuel prices and converting trucks to compressed natural gas fuel, which is less expensive than diesel fuel. Franchise fees and taxes decreased $0.7 or 2.2% to $31.6 primarily due to changes in the mix of waste in the Midwest segment. Risk management expenses increased $2.5 or 19.5% to $15.3. The six months ended June 30, 2015 benefited $0.8 from the favorable settlement of a legacy claim and favorable actuarial development in our vehicle liability insurance programs which did not reoccur in the six months ended June 30, 2016. Other operating costs increased $3.5 or 7.9% to $47.6 primarily due to increased landfill site and other facility operating expenses of $1.8 and increased costs related to leachate treatment and disposal due to wet weather in the first quarter of 2016 of $1.1. Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations Accretion expense was $3.3 and $3.4 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease of $0.1 was primarily attributable to the timing of certain capping obligations. Accretion expense was $6.5 and $6.7 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease of $0.2 was primarily attributable to the timing of certain capping obligations. For a discussion of factors affecting capping obligations, see the critical accounting policies in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, legal and professional fees and other expenses. Salaries expenses include salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits and incentive compensation for corporate and field general management, field support functions, sales force, accounting and finance, legal, management information systems, and clerical and administrative departments. Other expenses include rent and office costs, fees for professional services provided by third parties, marketing, directors' and officers' insurance, general employee relocation, travel, entertainment and bank charges, but exclude any such amounts recorded as restructuring charges. The following table provides the components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): 29 Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Our salaries expenses increased by $3.6 or 16.3% to $25.7 primarily attributable to increased stock based compensation of $2.4 and $1.1 of increased wages due to merit increases and acquisition activity. Legal and professional fees decreased $0.6 or 20.7% to $2.3 which was primarily the result of a reduction in consulting fees associated with internal control evaluation and implementation and the favorable settlement of a legal matter which contributed $0.3 to the decrease. Other selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.1 or 0.9% to $11.2. Six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Our salaries expenses increased by $5.5 or 12.1% to $50.8 attributable to increased stock based compensation of $2.1 with the remainder primarily due to merit increases and acquisition activity. Legal and professional fees increased $6.7 or 124.1% to $12.1 which was primarily the result of expenses related to the launch of the initial public offering process in the amount of $7.1, including the amendment of our credit agreement contingent on an initial public offering. Other selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $1.0 or 4.5% to $21.2. Depreciation and Amortization The following table summarizes the components of depreciation and amortization expense by asset type (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). For a detailed discussion of depreciation and amortization by asset type refer to the discussion included in the following two sections herein. Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment Depreciation, amortization and depletion expense includes depreciation of fixed assets over the estimated useful life of the assets using the straight-line method, and amortization and depletion of landfill airspace assets under the units-of-consumption method. Refer to the footnotes of the consolidated financial statements in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our accounting policies. The following table summarizes depreciation, amortization and depletion of property and equipment for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): 30 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment remained constant at $31.8 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment remained constant at $63.4 for the six months ended June 30, 2016, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. Landfill depletion and amortization decreased $1.8 to $21.9 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 primarily due to an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills. The impact of increased deemed permitted airspace was partially offset by increased disposal volumes. Landfill depletion and amortization decreased $2.2 to $40.3 for the six months ended June 30, 2016, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015 primarily due to an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills. The impact of increased deemed permitted airspace was partially offset by increased disposal volumes. Amortization of Other Intangible Assets Amortization of other intangible assets was $10.9 and $11.0 or as a percentage of revenue, 3.0% and 3.1% , for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease in amortization expense is attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized. Amortization of other intangible assets was $21.7 and $21.5 or as a percentage of revenue, 3.1% and 3.1%, for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in amortization expense is directly attributable to increased acquisition activity in the prior year. Acquisitions In the ordinary course of our business, we regularly evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy. We completed six acquisitions during the six months ended June 30, 2016 for a cash purchase price of $4.9 and notes payable of $0.3, subject to net working capital adjustments, which we expect to be completed within approximately one year. The results of operations of each acquisition are included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. Seven acquisitions were completed during the six months ended June 30, 2015 for a cash purchase price of $23.8 and notes payable of $3.3. The results of operations of each acquisition are included in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. Impairments The Company disposed of certain businesses in June 2015 and recorded a loss on disposal of $10.9 for the three and six months ending June 30, 2015. In connection with the sale, the Company impaired certain assets in the amount of $4.3 in the three and six months ending June 30, 2015. Further, the Company strategically allowed an inactive landfill permit to lapse and in connection with the permit lapse recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $2.1 primarily for permitting costs in the three and six months ending June 30, 2015. No such amounts were recorded for the three and six months ending June 30, 2016. Other, Net 31 Changes in the fair value and settlements of the fuel derivative instruments are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and amounted to income of $2.1 and $4.8 for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $1.5 and ($.2), respectively. Changes in the fair value of the interest rate caps purchased in May of 2016 are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and amounted to a loss of $2.8 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. Income from equity investee for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively was $0.5 and $0.4 and for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was $1.1 and $0.8, respectively. Income from a gain on redemption of a security of $2.5 was recorded in other income (expense), net during the three and six months ended June 30, 2015. Interest Expense The $1.4 decrease in interest expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 is principally due to lower average balances on the Term Loan B. The $1.2 decrease in interest expense for the six months ended June 30, 2016 is principally due to lower average balances on the Term Loan B. Income Taxes The Company's effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was 90.5% and 38.4%, respectively. We evaluate our effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses included in stock-based compensation. These items had a greater impact on the Company's effective income tax rate during the three months ended June 30, 2016 than in comparable prior periods due to the Company's pre-tax earnings being near break-even for the three month period ending June 30, 2016. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to the mix of income in the states in which the Company operates. The Company's effective income tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was 26.6% and 32.0%, respectively. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income tax benefit for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses and the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance. Reportable Segments Our operations are managed through three geographic regions (South, East and Midwest) that we designate as our reportable segments. Revenues and operating income/(loss) for our reportable segments for the periods indicated, are shown in the following tables: 32 Comparison of Reportable Segments- Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 South Segment Revenue increased $2.5 or 2.1% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in disposal revenue of $2.0 as a result of higher price and volume, an increase in residential collection revenue of $0.8 due to acquisitions in the prior year and new contract starts in the prior year partially offset by the loss of certain municipal contracts, an increase in commercial collection revenue of $0.9 due to higher volume partly due to acquisitions in the prior year partially offset by a divestiture in the prior year, an increase in rolloff revenue of $1.0 due to price and volume, and an increase in environmental fees of $0.7 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in recycling revenue of $1.0 due to a prior year divestiture, a decrease in fuel fee revenue of $0.8 as a result of lower diesel fuel prices, and a decrease in trucking revenue of $0.5 due to lower volume of special waste projects. Operating income from our South Segment increased by $16.4 or 292.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily the result of losses on disposal of businesses and impairment charges recorded in the 2015 period of $15.2 related to strategic divestitures. 33 Additionally, operating income increased due to the revenue increase discussed above which contributed $1.1 to the increase after direct expenses, lower disposal fees of $1.0 due to lower third party fees, and lower fuel expense of $1.9 due to lower diesel fuel prices. These increase were partially offset by higher labor costs of $1.3 due to merit increases and acquisition activity and higher repairs and maintenance expense of $1.3 due to the implementation of a standardized maintenance plan on our collection fleet and landfill equipment and acquisition activity. East Segment Revenue increased by $3.0 , or 3.2% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase is primarily due to an increase in commercial collection revenue of $1.0 due to prior year acquisitions and higher price, an increase in residential collection revenue of $1.5 due to acquisitions in the prior year and new contract starts, an increase in rolloff revenue of $0.5 due to higher price, an increase in C&D landfill disposal revenue of $1.3 due to higher price and volume, an increase in revenue of $0.9 related to increased special waste volumes, an increase in disposal revenue of $0.7 due to an acquired transfer station in the prior year, and an increase in environmental fees of $0.6 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in disposal revenue of $1.2 due to the divestiture of three transfer stations, a reduction in revenue of $1.2 from shale volumes due to the continued decline in the oil and gas market, and a reduction in fuel fees of $0.4 as a result of lower diesel fuel prices. Operating income from our East Segment increased $4.2 or 84.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase is due to not continuing to pursue permitting at one landfill site in the prior year which resulted in expense of $2.1. Additionally, operating income increased due to the revenue increase discussed above which contributed $1.3 to the increase after direct expenses and lower fuel expenses of $1.3 due to lower diesel fuel prices. These increases were partially offset by higher insurance expense of $0.5 and higher salaries and wages of $0.5. Midwest Segment Revenue decreased $2.5 or 1.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The decrease is primarily due to lower collection revenue of $2.1 due to the loss of residential contracts and lower fuel fees of $2.0 due to the reduction in diesel fuel prices. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in environmental fees of $1.6 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015. Operating income from our Midwest Segment increased by $3.5 or 20.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in operating income is due to higher environmental fees of $1.6 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015 and a reduction in wages of $1.0 due to a decrease in driver headcount. Corporate Region Operating loss increased $1.7 or 12.2% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 , primarily due to an increase in stock based compensation of $2.4. Comparison of Reportable Segments-Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2015 South Segment Revenue increased $1.2 or 0.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to an increase in disposal revenue of $5.1 as a result of higher price and volume, an increase in residential collection revenue of $1.2 due to acquisitions in the prior year and new contract starts in the prior year partially offset by the loss of certain municipal contracts, an increase in commercial collection revenue of $1.2 due to increased volume partly due to acquisitions in the prior year partially offset by a divestiture in the prior year, an increase in rolloff revenue of $1.9 due to price and volume, and an increase in environmental fees of $1.4 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015. These increases were partially offset by a decline in revenue of $6.2 due to the divestiture of businesses in the prior year, a decrease in fuel fee revenue of $2.0 as a result of lower diesel fuel prices, a decrease in landfill gas revenue of $1.1 due to the expiration of landfill gas credit agreements and a decline in the market price for landfill gas, and a decrease in trucking revenue of $0.5 due to the timing of special waste projects. 34 Operating income from our South Segment increased by $13.6 or 48.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily the result of losses on disposal of businesses and impairment charges recorded in the 2015 period of $15.2 related to strategic divestitures. Additionally, operating income increased due to the revenue increase discussed above which contributed $2.1 to the increase after direct expenses and lower fuel fees of $4.1 due to lower diesel fuel prices. These increases were partially offset by higher labor costs of $3.3 due to increased headcount, merit increases, and start up costs related to acquisitions and new municipal contracts and higher repairs and maintenance expense of $2.9 due to the implementation of a standardized maintenance plan on our collection fleet and landfill equipment and acquisition activity. East Segment Revenue increased by $7.0 or 3.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase is primarily due to an increase in commercial collection revenue of $2.0 due to prior year acquisitions and higher price, an increase in residential collection revenue of $2.4 due to acquisitions in the prior year and new contract starts, an increase in rolloff revenue of $1.1 due to higher price, an increase in disposal revenue of $5.1 due to increased volume and an increase in environmental fees of $1.4 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in disposal revenue of $1.2 due to the divestiture of three transfer stations, a reduction in revenue of $2.5 from shale volumes due to the continued decline in the oil and gas market, and a reduction in fuel fees of $1.0 as a result of lower diesel fuel prices. Operating income from our East Segment increased $4.3 or 50.6% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase is due to not continuing to pursue permitting at one landfill site in the prior year which resulted in expense of $2.1. Additionally, operating income increased due to the revenue increase discussed above which contributed $2.3 to the increase after direct expenses and lower fuel expense of $2.5 due to lower diesel fuel prices. These increases were partially offset by higher insurance expense of $0.7, higher salaries and wages of $1.2 and higher repair and maintenance expense of $0.5. Midwest Segment Revenue decreased $1.7 or 0.6% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The decrease is primarily due to lower collection revenue of $0.5 due to the loss of residential contracts and lower fuel fees of $4.5 due to the reduction in diesel fuel prices. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in environmental fees of $3.2 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015. Operating income from our Midwest Segment increased by $4.0 or 14.3% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase in operating income is due to higher environmental fees of $3.2 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2015 and a reduction in wages of $0.8 due to a decrease in driver headcount. Corporate Region Operating loss increased $10.5 or 38.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015, primarily due to $7.5 in expenses related to the launch of the initial public offering process and the evaluation of strategic alternatives, including the amendment of our credit agreement contingent on an initial public offering. Additionally, stock based compensation expense increased by $2.1. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operations, bank borrowings and debt offerings. We intend to use excess cash on hand and cash from operating activities, together with bank borrowings, to fund purchases of property and equipment, working capital, acquisitions and debt repayments. Actual debt repayments may include purchases of our outstanding indebtedness in the secondary market or otherwise. We believe that our current cash balances, cash from operating activities and funds available under our Revolver will provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our anticipated capital requirements and maturing obligations as they come due. At June30, 2016 , the Company had negative working capital which was driven by purchases of property and equipment and construction and development during the six months ended June 30, 2016 as well as the use of our cash to fund debt repayments and to return capital to the parent. At December 31, 2015, we had negative working capital which was driven by repayments on the Term Loan B and cash used for acquisitions. The Company has more than adequate availability on its Revolver to fund short term working capital requirements. 35 Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents and Debt Obligations The table below presents a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and debt balances (in millions): Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following table sets forth for the periods indicated a summary of our cash flows (in millions): Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities We generated $104.4 of cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2016 , compared with $129.3 during the six months ended June 30, 2015 . The decrease of $24.9 was due in part to an increase in accounts receivable in the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to a decrease in the comparable prior period which accounted for $11.1 of the variance. The accounts receivable increase is due to increased emphasis on collection activities starting in late 2014 that resulted in significant improvement in days sales outstanding throughout 2015. Higher capping, closure and post closure expenditures contributed $5.0 to the decrease and was due to timing of payments and an increase in required capping events in 2016 compared to 2015. Higher payments on accrued expenses of $4.8 also contributed to the decrease and was due primarily to higher bonus payments in the first quarter of 2016 compared to 2015. Cash flows from operations are used to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, interest payments and debt and capital repayments. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities We used $70.8 of cash in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared with $85.3 during the six months ended June 30, 2015 , a decrease of $14.5 , which was primarily attributable to reduced capital spending of $20.5 mostly due to the timing of projects and reduced acquisition spending of $18.7 due to a large acquisition during the first quarter of 2015. These reductions in spending were partially offset by the redemption of an investment security for $15.0 during the six months ended June 30, 2015 and a reduction in proceeds from divestitures of $10.0 during the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2016 , net cash used in financing activities was $33.0 compared to $35.7 during the six months ended June 30, 2015 , a decrease of $2.7 . The decrease is primarily due to higher proceeds related to bank overdrafts of $12.6 due to the timing of payments partially offset by higher net payments of debt of $4.7 and a higher return of capital to the parent of $5.1. Senior Secured Credit Facilities In November 2012, we entered into (i)a $1,800.0 term loan B facility and (ii)a $300.0 Revolver and together with the Term Loan B, (the Senior Secured Credit Facilities) with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as administrative agent, and affiliates of Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Macquarie Capital (USA) Inc., UBS Securities LLC and 36 Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, and other lenders from time to time party thereto and effected re-pricing transactions on the Term Loan B in February 2014 and February 2013, that reduced the applicable interest rate floor by 50 basis points and the applicable margin by 100 basis points, respectively. See Note 4, Debt, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , for additional details regarding our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities can be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. As of June30, 2016 , we had an aggregate committed capacity of $300.0 , of which $100.0 was available for letters of credit. At June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had an aggregate of approximately $46.0 and$45.9, respectively, of letters of credit outstanding. At June30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had $11.0 and $32.0, respectively, of borrowings on the Revolver. The agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities requires us to comply with certain financial and other covenants, including a total leverage ratio for the benefit of the lenders under the Revolver that is applicable when there are outstanding loans or letters of credit under the Revolver. Compliance with these covenants is a condition to any incremental borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and failure to meet these covenants would enable the lenders to require repayment of any outstanding loans (which would adversely affect our liquidity). As of June30, 2016 , we were in compliance with the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants will be highly dependent on our results of operations and, to the extent necessary, our ability to implement remedial measures such as reductions in operating costs. We are subject to a total leverage ratio covenant for the applicable periods as indicated. At June30, 2016 , the total leverage ratio was 6.02:1:00. 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2020 On October9, 2012, we issued $550.0 aggregate principal amount of 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2020 pursuant to an indenture between the Company, the guarantor party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. As of June30, 2016 , we were in compliance with the covenants under the Indenture. See Note 4, Debt, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding the notes. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance instruments and operating leases, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. Seasonality We expect our operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring in the East and Midwest segments because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in these regions of the U.S. In addition, some of our operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items Uncertain Tax Positions-As of June30, 2016 , we have $10.0 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of other long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments 37 required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. Financial Assurance We must provide financial assurance to governmental agencies and a variety of other entities under applicable environmental regulations relating to our landfill operations for capping, closure and post-closure costs, and related to our performance under certain collection, landfill and transfer station contracts. We satisfy these financial assurance requirements by providing surety bonds and letters of credit. The amount of the financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs is determined by applicable state environmental regulations. The financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs may be associated with a portion of the landfill or the entire landfill. Generally, states require a third-party engineering specialist to determine the estimated capping, closure and post-closure costs that are used to determine the required amount of financial assurance for a landfill. The amount of financial assurance required can, and generally will, differ from the obligation determined and recorded under U.S. GAAP. The amount of the financial assurance requirements related to contract performance varies by contract. Additionally, we must provide financial assurance for our insurance program and collateral for certain performance obligations. We do not expect a material increase in financial assurance requirements in the foreseeable future, although the mix of financial assurance instruments may change. These financial instruments are issued in the normal course of business and are not considered company indebtedness. Because we currently have no liability for these financial assurance instruments, they are not reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. However, we record capping, closure and post-closure liabilities and self-insurance liabilities as they are incurred. The underlying obligations of the financial assurance instruments, in excess of those already reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets, would be recorded if it is probable that we would be unable to fulfill our related obligations. We do not expect this to occur. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. However, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. Critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require management's most subjective judgments. A summary of significant accounting policies is disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our critical accounting policies are further described under the caption "Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recently Issued and Proposed Accounting Standards For a description of new accounting standards that may affect us, see Note 2, Basis of Presentation, to our unaudited consolidated financial statements in Part 1 of this Form 10-Q.Item 1. Financial Statements Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 1. Business Operations Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. (formerly ADS Waste Holdings Inc. hereafter referred to as "the Company") together with its consolidated subsidiaries, as a consolidated entity, is a nonhazardous solid waste services company providing collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services to customers in the South, Midwest and Eastern regions of the United States, as well as in the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. As of September 30, 2016, the Company was wholly owned by ADS Waste Holdings Corp. (the "Parent"). The Company manages and evaluates its principal operations through three reportable operating segments on a regional basis. Those operating segments are the South, East and Midwest regions which provide collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services. Additional information related to segments can be found in Note 9. Seven acquisitions were completed during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 for aggregate prices consisting of a cash purchase price of $5.2 and notes payable of $0.2 , subject to net working capital adjustments and other commitments, which are expected to be completed within approximately one year. Seven acquisitions were completed during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 for a cash purchase price of $25.0 and notes payable of $3.3 . The results of operations of each acquisition are included in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. The Company recorded an increase to the purchase price of prior year acquisitions during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 in the amount of $0.1 . The Company is still reviewing information surrounding intangible assets and current liabilities related to acquisitions completed subsequent to September 30, 2015. 2. Basis of Presentation The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements include its wholly-owned subsidiaries of Advanced Disposal Services South, Inc. and HW Star Holdings Corp. and their respective subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements as of September30, 2016 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 are unaudited. In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, which, unless otherwise disclosed, are of a normal recurring nature, necessary for a fair statement of the balance sheet, results of operations, comprehensive loss, cash flows, and changes in equity for the periods presented. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the entire year. The financial statements presented herein should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2015 . In conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Company uses estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that it uses is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In preparing the Company's financial statements, the more subjective areas that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to: accounting for long-lived assets, including recoverability; landfill development costs, final capping, closure and post-closure costs; valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets; liabilities for potential litigation; claims and assessments; liabilities for environmental remediation; stock compensation; accounting for goodwill and intangible asset impairments; deferred taxes; uncertain tax positions; self-insurance reserves; and estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that the Company uses in preparation of its financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), which simplifies the accounting for employee stock-based payment transactions, including the accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as classification in the statement of cash flows. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company expects to early adopt this guidance during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 and does not believe this standard will have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases , which will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset with a corresponding lease liability, and lessors to recognize a net lease investment. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures will also be required to increase transparency and comparability among organizations. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of the standard is permitted, however; the Company does not expect to early adopt the ASU. Lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented. While the Company is still assessing the impact of this standard, it does not believe this standard will have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance. The new standard requires that a company recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Companies will need to use more judgment and estimates than under the guidance currently in effect, including estimating the amount of variable revenue to recognize over each identified performance obligation. Additional disclosures will be required to help users of financial statements understand the nature, amount and timing of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts. In July 2015, the FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective date. This standard will now become effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter 2018 and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company anticipates adopting the standard as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance on the consolidated financial statements 3. Landfill Liabilities Liabilities for final closure and post-closure costs for the year ended December31, 2015 and for the nine months ended September30, 2016 are shown in the table below: 10 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 4. Earnings Per Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic earnings per share and earnings per share, assuming dilution: Basic net income (loss) per share is based on the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding for each of the periods presented. Net income (loss) per share, assuming dilution, is based on the weighted-average number of shares of common stock equivalents outstanding adjusted for the effects of common stock that may be issued as a result of potentially dilutive instruments. The Company's potentially dilutive instruments are made up of equity awards, which include stock options, restricted stock awards, and performance stock awards. The Earnings Per Share Topic in the FASB's Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") requires the Company to include additional shares in the computation of net income per share, assuming dilution. The additional shares included in diluted net income per share represent the number of shares that would be issued if all of the above potentially dilutive instruments were converted into common stock. When calculating diluted net income per share, the ASC requires the Company to include the potential shares that would be outstanding if all outstanding stock options were exercised. This number is different from outstanding stock options because it is offset by shares the Company could repurchase using the proceeds from these hypothetical exercises to obtain the common stock equivalent. Approximately 1.4 million and 4.5 million of outstanding stock awards for the third quarter and nine months ended 2016, respectively, were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because their effect was antidilutive. Approximately 3.8 million and 3.8 million of outstanding stock awards for the third quarter and nine months ended 2015, respectively, were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because their effect was antidilutive. 11 5. Debt The following table summarizes the major components of debt at each balance sheet date and provides the maturities and interest rate ranges of each major category of debt: All borrowings under the Term Loan B and the Revolver are guaranteed by each of the Company's current and future U.S. subsidiaries (which also guarantee the Senior Notes), subject to certain agreed-upon exemptions. The Company has one non-guarantor foreign subsidiary as disclosed in Note 12. All guarantors are jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally liable. The Parent has no independent assets or operations and each subsidiary guarantor is 100% owned by the Company. There are no significant restrictions on the Company or any guarantor to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan. Refer to note 13 for subsequent event related to the Term Loan B and Revolver. Revolver and Letter of Credit Facilities As of September30, 2016 , the Company had an aggregate committed capacity of $300.0 , of which $100.0 was available for letters of credit under its credit facilities. The Company's Revolver is its primary source of letter of credit capacity and expires in October 2019. As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had $0.0 and $32.0 of borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, respectively. As of September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, the Company had an aggregate of $44.6 and $45.9 , respectively, of letters of credit outstanding under its credit facilities. Refer to note 13 for subsequent event related to the Revolver. 12 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 6. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities The following table summarizes the fair values of derivative instruments recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets: The Company has not offset fair value of assets and liabilities recognized for its derivative instruments. Interest Rate Caps In December 2012, the Company entered into four interest rate cap agreements to hedge the risk of a rise in interest rates and associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The Company recorded a premium of $5.0 in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and amortized the premium to interest expense based upon decreases in time value of the caps. Amortization expense was approximately $0.0 and $0.4 for the three months ending September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively and for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $0.3 and $1.5 , respectively. The contracts expired in September 2016. In May 2016, the Company entered into three interest rate cap agreements as economic hedges against the risk of a rise in interest rates and the associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The Company will pay the $5.5 premium of the caps equally over eleven quarters beginning on March 31, 2017. The Company elected not to apply hedge accounting to these interest rate caps therefore changes in the fair value of the interest rate caps are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded a gain of $0.3 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and a loss of $2.6 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The notional value of the contracts aggregated were $800.0 as of September 30, 2016 and will remain constant through maturity in September 2019. Commodity Futures Contracts The Company utilizes fuel derivative instruments (commodity futures contracts) as economic hedges of the risk that fuel prices will fluctuate. The Company has used financial derivative instruments for both short-term and long-term time frames and utilizes fixed price swap agreements to manage the identified risk. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Changes in the fair value and settlements of the fuel derivative instruments are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded losses of $0.3 and $9.3 for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 the Company recorded gains of $1.2 and losses of $9.5 , respectively. As of September30, 2016 , the Company has 3.4 gallons under fixed price derivative contracts with strike prices ranging from $2.20 to $2.64 per gallon. If the mean price of the high and the low exceeds the contract price per gallon, the Company receives the difference between the average price and the contract price (multiplied by the notional gallons) from the counterparty. If the mean average price is less than the contract price per gallon, the Company pays the difference to the counterparty. 13 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 7. Income Taxes The Company's effective income tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was 36.7% and 46.1% , respectively. The Company evaluates its effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impacts of permanently non-deductible expenses, interest related to previously recorded uncertain tax positions and the change in recorded valuation allowances. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to a change in forecasted book income, as well as a mix of income in the states in which the Company operates. The Company's effective income tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was 21.4% and 35.8% , respectively. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses and the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowances and the mix of income in the states in which the Company operates. As of September 30, 2016, the Company had $10.3 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term "Other liabilities" in the condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. The Company is not able to reasonably estimate when it would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but it does not believe that the ultimate settlement of the obligations will materially affect our liquidity. 8. Commitments and Contingencies Financial Instruments The Company has obtained letters of credit, performance bonds and insurance policies for the performance of landfill final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, environmental remediation, and other obligations. Letters of credit are supported by the Company's Revolver (Note 5). The Company does not expect that any claims against or draws on these instruments would have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company has not experienced any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining the required financial assurance instruments for its current operations. In an ongoing effort to mitigate risks of future cost increases and reductions in available capacity, the Company continues to evaluate various options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance. Insurance The Company carries insurance coverage for protection of its assets and operations from certain risks including automobile liability, general liability, real and personal property, workers compensation, directors and officers liability, pollution, legal liability and other coverages the Company believes are customary to the industry. The Company's exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally limited to the per incident deductible, or self-insured retention, under the related insurance policy. Its exposure, however, could increase if its insurers are unable to meet their commitments on a timely basis. The Company has retained a significant portion of the risks related to its automobile, general liability, workers compensation and health claims programs. For its self-insured retentions, the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, is based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from the Company's assumptions used. The Company does not expect the impact of any known casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Litigation and Other Matters In February 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries were named as defendants in a purported class action suit in the Circuit Court of Macon County, Alabama. Similar class action complaints were brought against the Company and 14 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) certain of its subsidiaries in 2011 in Duval County, Florida and in 2013 in Quitman County, Georgia and Barbour County, Alabama, and in 2014 in Chester County, Pennsylvania. The 2013 Georgia complaint was dismissed in March 2014. In late 2015 in Gwinnett County, Georgia, another purported class action suit was filed. The plaintiffs in those cases primarily allege that the defendants charged improper fees (fuel, administrative and environmental fees) that were in breach of the plaintiffs' service agreements with the Company and seek damages in an unspecified amount. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses against these purported class actions, which it will vigorously pursue. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of these cases, the unknown size of any potential class, and legal and factual issues in dispute, the outcome of these cases cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. In November 2014, the Attorney General of the State of Vermont filed a complaint against the Company relating to the Moretown, Vermont landfill regarding alleged odor and other environmental-related noncompliances with environmental laws and regulations and environmental permits. In the complaint, the Attorney General requested that the State of Vermont Superior Court find the Company liable for the alleged noncompliances, issue related civil penalties, and order the Company to reimburse the State of Vermont for enforcement costs. While the complaint does not specify a monetary penalty, prior correspondence from the Attorney General of the State of Vermont indicates that it may seek a penalty relating to the alleged noncompliances that is not expected to be material. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of this case, the outcome cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. The Company is subject to various other proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims and regulatory investigations arising in the ordinary course of its business. Many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. Actions filed against the Company include commercial, customer, and employment-related claims. The plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. These actions are in various procedural stages, and some are covered in part by insurance. Although the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome and the range of loss cannot be currently estimated, the Company does not believe that the eventual outcome of any such action could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Multiemployer Defined Benefit Pension Plans Approximately 13.6% of the Company's workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with various local unions across its operating regions. As a result of some of these agreements, certain of the Company's subsidiaries are participating employers in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer, defined benefit pension plans for the affected employees. In connection with its ongoing renegotiation of various collective bargaining agreements, the Company may discuss and negotiate for the complete or partial withdrawal from one or more of these pension plans. A complete or partial withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan may also occur if employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement vote to decertify a union from continuing to represent them. The Company is not aware of any such actions in connection with continuing operations. As a result of certain discontinued operations, the Company is potentially exposed to certain withdrawal liabilities. The Company does not believe that any future withdrawals, individually or in the aggregate, from the multiemployer plans to which it contributes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or liquidity. However, such withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations for a particular reporting period, depending on the number of employees withdrawn in any future period and the financial condition of the multiemployer plan(s) at the time of such withdrawal(s). Tax Matters The Company has open tax years dating back to 2000 in certain jurisdictions. Prior to the acquisition, MW Star Holdings, Corp. (Veolia ES Solid Waste division) was part of a consolidated group and is still subject to IRS and state examinations dating back to 2004. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition of Veolia ES Solid Waste, Inc., the Company is entitled to certain indemnifications for Veolia ES Solid Waste Division's pre-acquisition tax liabilities. The Company maintains a liability for uncertain tax positions, the balance of which management believes is adequate. Results of audit assessments by taxing authorities are not currently expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. 15 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 9. Segment and Related Information The Company manages and evaluates its operations primarily through its South, East and Midwest regional segments. These three groups are presented below as the Company's reportable segments. The Company's three geographic operating segments provide collection, transfer, disposal and recycling services. The Company serves residential, commercial and industrial, and municipal customers throughout its operating regions. Summarized financial information concerning its reportable segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 are shown in the table below: Fluctuations in the Company's operating results may be caused by many factors, including period-to-period changes in the relative contribution of revenue by each line of business and operating segment and by general economic conditions. In addition, its revenues and income from operations typically reflect seasonal patterns. The Company expects its operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring in the East and Midwest segments because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in these regions of the United States. In addition, some of the Company's operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, 16 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as hurricanes that most often impact the South region, can increase the Company's revenues in the areas affected. While weather-related and other occurrences can boost revenues through additional work, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions, including severe winter storms, may result in the temporary suspension of the Company's operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. No such events have occurred during the periods presented. 17 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 10. Fair Value Measurements Assets and Liabilities Accounted for at Fair Value In measuring fair values of assets and liabilities, the Company uses valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs (Level 1) and minimize the use of unobservable inputs (Level 3). The Company also uses market data or assumptions that it believes market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including assumptions about risk when appropriate. The carrying value for certain of the Company's financial instruments approximate fair value because of their short-term nature. The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include the following: The fair values of the fuel derivative instruments and interest rate caps are determined using standard option valuation models with assumptions about commodity prices and interest rates based on those observed in underlying markets (Level 2 in fair value hierarchy). 18 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Fair Value of Debt The fair value of the Company's debt (Level 2) is estimated using indirectly observable market inputs, except for the Revolver for which cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of the interest rate. Although the Company has determined the estimated fair value amounts using quoted market prices, considerable judgment is required in interpreting the information and in developing the estimated fair values. Therefore, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company, or holders of the instruments, could realize in a current market exchange. The fair value estimates are based on information available as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The estimated fair value of the Company's debt is as follows: The carrying value of the Company's debt at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 was $2,235.5 and $2,267.5 , respectively. 11. Stock-based Compensation Amendment to Stock Incentive Plan During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Parent amended the Advanced Disposal Waste Holdings Corp. 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan) to allow for the grant of performance shares, restricted shares, restricted share units, and other equity awards in addition to stock options and stock purchase rights as originally provided for under the 2012 Plan. Named Executive Officer (NEO) Grants During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, there were 30,384 NEO restricted stock grants under the 2012 Plan with a fair value of $24.28 per share. The restricted stock will vest in three equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of the grant. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, none of the NEO restricted stock was forfeited. As of September 30, 2016, there were 30,384 shares of restricted stock outstanding under the 2012 Plan. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, there were 60,767 NEO performance share units (PSUs) issued under the 2012 Plan with a fair value of $24.28 per share. The PSUs will vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of the grant. The PSUs shall be measured based on the Parent's budget and are weighted as follows: EBITDA: 50% ; Free Cash Flow: 30% ; and Revenue: 20% . The measurement criteria begins with an attainment of 90% of the budget which results in vesting of 25% of the shares underlying the PSUs granted and ends with an attainment of 110% of the budget which results in vesting of 175% of the shares underlying the PSUs granted. Performance will be measured separately for each of the three years in the performance period and the total number of PSUs earned at the conclusion of the three three year performance period will be the sum of the PSUs earned with respect to each individual year. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, none of the NEO PSUs were forfeited. As of September 30, 2016, there were 60,767 PSUs outstanding under the 2012 Plan. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, there were 96,922 NEO option grants under the 2012 Plan. The options will vest in three equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of the grant. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, none of these NEO options were forfeited or exercised. As of September 30, 2016, there were 96,922 options outstanding under the NEO plan. The weighted average exercise price of outstanding NEO options was $24.28 . The weighted average remaining contractual term for the outstanding NEO options was 9.75 years as of September 30, 2016. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company and its Chief Executive Officer (CEO), entered into an amendment to the CEO's employment agreement. The amendment adjusts the performance criteria applicable to 19 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) performance-based stock options that the CEO is eligible to earn with respect to 2016. Previously, the only applicable criterion was EBITDA; the amendment provides that the number of performance-based stock options earned will be based on EBITDA ( 50% ) and free cash flow ( 50% ). The amendment also clarifies that the full potential grant of performance-based stock options (covering up to 190,792 shares of Parent's common stock) is still available to be earned by the CEO. Total unrecognized compensation expense for all of the above NEO grants (including the impact of the amendment to the CEO performance-based stock options) was approximately $3.6 as of September 30, 2016, which will be recognized over the next 3.3 years. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, compensation expense for all of the above NEO grants (including the impact of the amendment to the CEO performance-based stock options) was approximately $0.3 . Annual Stock Option Grants During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, there were 555,969 annual grants under the 2012 Plan for employees other than the NEO's. Each option had an estimated fair value of $7.35 per option on the date of grant. The options will vest 20% on date of grant and 20% in four equal installments over each of the first four anniversaries of the date of the grant. The weighted average exercise price of these options was $24.28 . The weighted average remaining contractual term for these options was 9.6 years as of September 30, 2016. 20 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 12. Guarantor Financial Statements All borrowings under the Term Loan B and the Revolver are guaranteed by each of the Company's current and future U.S. subsidiaries (which also guarantee the Senior Notes), subject to certain agreed-upon exemptions. The Company has one non-guarantor foreign subsidiary, Sanitation Services Company Limited, which exceeded 3% of pretax income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. As a result, the Company is providing the following condensed consolidating financial information in accordance with SEC disclosure requirements. Prior periods are not presented as the non guarantor subsidiary was minor. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2016 21 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended September 30, 2016 22 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 23 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 24 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 13. Subsequent Events Initial Public Offering (IPO) The Company closed its IPO on October 12, 2016 in which it sold 19,250,000 shares of common stock to new shareholders at $18 per share and received net proceeds of $325.1 after underwriting fees, commissions and expenses. Stock Split In connection with the IPO, the Company effected a stock split and recapitalization and issued 64,493,536 shares of common stock directly to existing shareholders. All share and per share amounts in these financial statements and related notes have been retrospectively adjusted to give effect to the stock split. Use of Proceeds from IPO The Company received proceeds in connection with the IPO, after underwriting fees and commissions, of $326.6 and before expenses of $1.5 , and used these proceeds to make an early prepayment on the Term Loan B of $326.0 . In connection with this early prepayment of debt, the Company will recognize a loss on extinguishment of $7.5 in the fourth quarter. Adoption of 2016 Omnibus Equity Plan The Company's board of directors adopted the Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Equity Plan on January 29, 2016. The 2016 Plan became effective on October 4, 2016 and will terminate on the tenth anniversary of the 2016 Plan effective date, unless sooner terminated by the Company's board of directors. Stock Awards Granted at IPO In connection with the IPO, the Company issued 659,899 stock options and 300,001 restricted stock units with a fair value of $9.3 to the NEOs of the Company which will be recognized in expense over the vesting period. These awards are scheduled to vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant. The restricted stock units were valued at $18 per share, which was the fair value of the Company's stock on the grant date. The exercise price of the stock options is $18 per share, which was equal to the fair market value of the Company's stock on the grant date. The contractual term of the options is ten years and each option had an estimated fair value of $5.91 per option on the date of grant. In connection with the IPO, 5,556 shares of restricted stock were issued to a non-employee director with a value of $0.1 . This award is scheduled to vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant. The restricted stock was valued at $18 per share, which was the fair value of the Company's stock on the grant date. In connection with the IPO, the Company issued 58,103 stock options with a fair value of $0.3 to employees other than the NEO's, which will be expensed over the vesting period. These awards vest 20% on the date of grant and 20% on each of the first four anniversaries of the date of grant. The exercise price of the stock options is $18 per share, which was equal to the fair market value of the Company's stock on the grant date. The contractual term of the options is 10 years and each option had an estimated fair value of $5.80 per option on the date of grant. Stock Options Exercised Subsequent to September 30, 2016, 1,090,816 stock options have been exercised with the Company receiving proceeds of $10.4 . Amendment to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement Upon IPO The remaining $20.0 of commitments under the revolving credit facility were extended to October 2019 upon consummation of the Company's initial public offering on October 12, 2016. 25 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Underwriters' Option in IPO The underwriters have exercised their option to purchase an additional 2,887,500 shares from the Company, at the initial public offering price, less the underwriting discounts and commissions. The Company received proceeds from the underwriters option of approximately $48.9 . Debt Refinancing On October 21, 2016, the Company launched a process to refinance its existing credit facilities with a new credit facility, which is expected to be a $1.8 billion senior secured credit facility, comprising a seven -year $1.5 billion senior secured first lien term loan B facility and a five -year $300 senior secured first lien revolving credit facility (the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities"). The timing, size and terms of the proposed Senior Secured Credit Facilities are subject to market conditions and the satisfaction of conditions to closing. On October 27, 2016, the Company priced a private offering of $425 aggregate principal amount of 5 % Senior Notes due 2024 (the "Senior Notes"). The offering was conducted pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and is expected to close on or about November 10, 2016, subject to the satisfaction of conditions to closing. Assuming satisfaction of the applicable closing conditions, the Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering of Senior Notes, together with borrowings under the proposed new Senior Secured Credit Facilities, to (i) repay all outstanding indebtedness under its existing credit agreement, (ii) finance a tender offer for $550 aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 8 % Senior Notes due 2020, (iii) pay tender premiums and transaction fees and expenses and (iv) for general corporate purposes, to the extent proceeds remain. 26 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included under Item1. In addition, you should refer to our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and related Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. All dollar amounts are presented in millions, unless otherwise stated. Overview We are a leading integrated provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services, operating primarily in secondary markets or under exclusive arrangements. We have a presence in 16 states across the Midwest, South and East regions of the United States, serving approximately 2.8 million residential and 222,000 commercial and industrial (C&I) customers through our extensive network of 92 collection operations, 72 transfer stations, 21 owned or operated recycling facilities and 39 owned or operated landfills. We operate 5 landfill gas and renewable energy projects and have an additional 12 third party owned landfill gas and renewable energy projects. We also have post-closure responsibility for 6 closed landfills. We seek to drive financial performance in markets in which we own or operate a landfill or in certain disposal-neutral markets, where the landfill is owned by our municipal customer. In markets in which we own or operate a landfill, we aim to create and maintain vertically integrated operations through which we manage a majority of our customers' waste from the point of collection through the point of disposal, a process we refer to as internalization. By internalizing a majority of the waste in these markets, we are able to deliver high quality customer service while also ensuring a stable revenue stream and maximizing profitability and cash flow from operations. In disposal-neutral markets, we focus selectively on opportunities where we can negotiate exclusive arrangements with our municipal customers, facilitating highly efficient and profitable collection operations with lower capital requirements. Geographically, we focus our business principally in secondary, or less densely populated non-urban, markets where the presence of large national providers is generally more limited. We also compete selectively in primary, or densely populated urban, markets where we can capitalize on opportunities for vertical integration through our high-quality transfer and disposal infrastructure and where we can benefit from highly efficient collection route density. We maintain an attractive mix of revenue from varying sources, including residential collections, C&I collections, landfill gas and special waste streams, and fees charged to third parties for disposal in our network of transfer stations and landfills. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the periods indicated our consolidated results of operations and the percentage relationship that certain items from our condensed consolidated financial statements bear to revenue (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). 27 Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Operating income increased $7.1 or 21.8% to $39.6 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The variance for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily the result of the following: Lower depreciation and amortization of $3.6 primarily due to a reduction in landfill depletion and amortization as a result of an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills; Increased environmental fees of $3.1 due to an increased rate that went into effect in July 2016; and Lower professional fees of $1.0 resulting from a reduction in consulting fees associated with internal control evaluation and implementation. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Operating income increased $18.6 or 26.5% to $88.7 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The variance for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily the result of the following: Losses on disposal of businesses and impairment charges recorded in the 2015 period of $17.3 relating to strategic decisions regarding divestitures in our South segment and discontinuing the pursuit of permitting at one landfill site in our East segment; Higher revenue of $5.8 primarily due to an increase in average yield and revenue from prior year acquisitions partially offset by lower fuel fee revenue, a decrease in organic volume and lower revenue due to divestitures; Lower depreciation and amortization of $5.4 primarily due to a reduction in landfill depletion and amortization as a result of an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills; Higher expenses of $7.1 related to the launch of the February initial public offering process, including the amendment of our credit agreement that was contingent on an initial public offering; and Higher stock based compensation expense of $2.4 as a result of a larger portion of our compensation structure shifting to stock based awards. Revenue Through our subsidiaries, we generate revenue primarily by providing collection and disposal services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. Our remaining revenue is generated from recycling, fuel and environmental fees, landfill gas-to-energy operations and other ancillary revenue-generating activities. Revenues from our collection operations consist of fees we receive from municipal, subscription, residential and C&I customers and are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the recycling, transfer station or disposal facilities and our disposal costs. Standard C&I service agreements are typically three to five years, and we have historically maintained strong relationships with our C&I customers. Our municipal customer relationships are generally supported by exclusive contracts ranging from three to ten years in initial duration with subsequent renewal periods. Certain municipal contracts have annual price escalation clauses that are tied to changes in an underlying base index such as the consumer price index. We provide commercial front load and temporary and permanent rolloff service offerings to our commercial customers. While the majority of our rolloff services are provided to customers under long-term service agreements, we generally do not enter into contracts with our temporary rolloff customers due to the relatively short-term nature of most construction and demolition (C&D) projects. Our transfer stations and landfills generate revenue from disposal or tipping fees. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of fees which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of 28 loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue consists of disposal or tipping fees and proceeds from the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The amounts charged for collection, disposal, and recycling services may include fuel fees and environmental fees. Fuel fees and environmental fees are not designed to be specific to the direct costs and expenses to service an individual customer's account, but rather are designed to address and to help recover changes in our overall cost structure and to achieve an operating margin acceptable to us. Other revenue is comprised of ancillary revenue-generating activities, such as trucking, landfill gas-to-energy operations at municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills, management of third-party owned landfills, customer service charges relating to overdue payments and customer administrative fees relating to customers who request paper copies of invoices rather than opting for electronic invoices. The following table sets forth our consolidated revenues by line of business for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of total service revenues). The following table reflects changes in components of our revenue, as a percentage of total revenue, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015: Average yield is defined as aggregate contribution of price changes excluding recycled commodities and fuel fee revenue. During the three months ended September 30, 2016, we experienced the following changes in components of our revenue as compared to the same period in 2015: Average yield increased revenue by 2.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 primarily due to positive pricing in our commercial collection business, rolloff collection business, MSW disposal business and special waste disposal business. Additionally, our environmental fee contributed to the increase due to a rate increase that went into effect in July 2016. Fuel fee revenue decreased revenue by 0.6% during the three months ended September 30, 2016. These fees fluctuate in response to changes in prices for diesel fuel on which the surcharge is based and, consequently, any decrease in fuel prices 29 results in a decrease in our revenue. Lower fuel fee revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 resulted from a decrease in diesel fuel prices. Organic volume decreased revenue by 3.2% during the three months ended September 30, 2016 primarily due to the loss of residential contracts in our Midwest segment, lower shale volumes in our East segment and lower special waste disposal volumes across all of our segments. Acquisitions increased revenue by 1.7% during the three months ended September 30, 2016 due to our execution of acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy. Divestitures decreased revenue by 0.6% during the three months ended September 30, 2016 due to our strategic decisions to divest low margin businesses. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we experienced the following changes in components of our revenue as compared to the same period in 2015: Average yield increased revenue by 2.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 primarily due to positive pricing in our commercial collection business, rolloff collection business, MSW disposal business and special waste disposal business. Additionally, our environmental fee contributed to the increase due to rate increases that went into effect in July 2015 and July 2016. Fuel fee revenue decreased revenue by 0.9% during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. These fees fluctuate in response to changes in prices for diesel fuel on which the surcharge is based and, consequently, any decrease in fuel prices results in a decrease in our revenue. Lower fuel fee revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 resulted from the decrease in diesel fuel prices. Organic volume decreased revenue by 1.2% during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 primarily due to the loss of residential contracts in our Midwest segment and lower shale volumes in our East segment partially offset by increased disposal volume across our MSW and C&D waste streams, most notably in our South and East segments. Acquisitions increased revenue by 1.9% during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 due to our execution of acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy. Divestitures decreased revenue by 1.3% during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 due to our strategic decisions to divest low margin businesses. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our operating expenses (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). Our operating expenses include the following: Labor and related benefits, which consist of salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits, incentive compensation and payroll taxes; Transfer and disposal costs which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations as well as transportation and subcontractor costs (which include costs for independent haulers who transport waste from transfer stations to our disposal facilities and costs for local operators who provide waste handling services associated with markets outside our standard operating areas); Maintenance and repairs expenses which include labor, maintenance and repairs to our vehicles, equipment and containers; 30 Fuel costs which include the direct cost of fuel used by our vehicles, net of fuel tax credits; Franchise fees and taxes which consist of municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; Risk management expenses which include casualty insurance premiums, claims payments and estimates for claims incurred but not reported; Other expenses which include expenses such as facility operating costs, equipment rent, leachate treatment and disposal, and other landfill maintenance costs; and Accretion expense related to landfill capping, closure and post-closure is included in operating expenses in our condensed consolidated income statements, but, it is excluded from the table below (refer to "Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations" for a detailed discussion of the changes in amounts). The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, excluding accretion expense on our landfill retirement obligations (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): The cost categories shown above may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. Thus, you should exercise caution when comparing our operating expenses by cost component to that of other companies. Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Operating expenses decreased by $3.2 or 1.5% to $217 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 from $220.2 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The change was due to the following: Labor and related benefits increased by $1.4 or 1.9% to $73.8 which was primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity and higher health care costs; Transfer and disposal costs decreased by $2.6 or 5.1% to $48.4 primarily due to the divestiture of three transfer stations in the second quarter of 2016, the divestiture of a recycling facility in the fourth quarter of 2015 and decreased shale related disposal activity; Maintenance and repairs expense increased by $0.5 or 1.5% to $33.2 . The increase was driven primarily by the implementation of a standardized maintenance plan on our collection fleet and landfill equipment which resulted in increased labor costs; 31 Fuel costs decreased $2.5 or 15.0% to $14.2 primarily resulting from decreases in fuel prices and converting trucks to compressed natural gas fuel, which is less expensive than diesel fuel; Franchise fees and taxes decreased $0.5 or 2.8% to $17.4 primarily due to changes in the mix of waste in the Midwest and East segments; and Other operating costs increased $0.5 or 2.3% to $22.6 primarily due to increased landfill site maintenance costs. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Operating expenses increased by $0.4 or 0.0% to $642.8 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 from $642.4 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The change was due to the following: Labor and related benefits increased by $6.2 or 2.9% to $220.2 which was primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity, startup costs for new municipal contracts and acquisitions and higher health care costs. The increases were partially offset by disposals of certain businesses and a $1.3 reduction in workers compensation costs; Transfer and disposal costs decreased by $4.2 or 2.9% to $142.0 due to the sale of a small brokerage business in April 2015, the divestiture of three transfer stations in April 2016 and lower costs due to decreased shale related disposal activity. These decreases were partially offset by increased container weights during the first quarter of 2016; Maintenance and repairs expense increased by $5.7 or 6.1% to $98.4. The increase was driven primarily by the implementation of a standardized maintenance plan on our collection fleet and landfill equipment which resulted in increased labor and material costs. Additionally, costs increased as a result of start up costs for new municipal contracts and acquisitions; Fuel costs decreased $12.5 or 23.6% to $40.4 primarily resulting from decreases in fuel prices and converting trucks to compressed natural gas fuel, which is less expensive than diesel fuel; Franchise fees and taxes decreased $1.2 or 2.4% to $49.0 primarily due to changes in the mix of waste in the Midwest and East segments, partially offset by higher costs in our South segment due mainly to increased volumes; Risk management expenses increased $2.6 or 12.9% to $22.8. The nine months ended September 30, 2015 benefited $0.8 from the favorable settlement of a legacy claim and favorable actuarial development in our vehicle liability insurance programs which did not reoccur in the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Other operating costs increased $3.8 or 5.7% to $70.0 primarily due to increased landfill site and other facility maintenance costs of $2.5 and increased costs related to leachate treatment and disposal due to wet weather of $1.3. Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations Accretion expense was $3.3 and $3.3 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Accretion expense was $9.8 and $10.0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease of $0.2 was primarily attributable to the timing of certain capping obligations. For a discussion of factors affecting capping obligations, see the critical accounting policies in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, legal and professional fees and other expenses. Salaries expenses include salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits and incentive compensation for corporate and field general management, field support functions, sales force, accounting and finance, legal, management information systems, and clerical and administrative departments. Other expenses include rent and office costs, fees for professional services provided by third parties, marketing, directors' and officers' insurance, general employee relocation, travel, entertainment and bank charges, but exclude any such amounts recorded as restructuring charges. 32 The following table provides the components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Our salaries expenses decreased by $0.9 or 3.9% to $22.0 primarily attributable to lower estimated incentive compensation expense. Legal and professional fees decreased $1.6 or 42.1% to $2.2 which was primarily the result of a reduction in professional fees of $1.0 due to a reduction in consulting fees associated with internal control evaluation and implementation and a $0.5 decrease in legal fees due to reduced legal claim activity. Other selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.8 or 7.5% to $11.4 primarily due to increased bad debt expense of $0.3, higher bank charges of $0.2 and higher telecommunications charges of $0.2. Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Our salaries expenses increased by $3.8 or 5.6% to $72.7 primarily attributable to higher stock based compensation expense of $2.4 as a result of a larger portion of our compensation structure shifting to stock based awards. The remainder of the variance is primarily due to merit increases and acquisition activity, partially offset by lower severance and estimated incentive compensation expense. Legal and professional fees increased $5.1 or 55.4% to $14.3 which was primarily the result of expenses related to the February launch of the initial public offering process in the amount of $7.1, including the amendment of our credit agreement. The increase was partially offset by a reduction in professional fees of $1.0 due to a reduction in consulting fees associated with internal control evaluation and implementation and a $0.6 decrease in legal fees due to reduced legal claim activity. Other selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.4 or 1.2% to $33.5 which is relatively consistent with the prior period. 33 Depreciation and Amortization The following table summarizes the components of depreciation and amortization expense by asset type (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). For a detailed discussion of depreciation and amortization by asset type refer to the discussion included in the following two sections herein. Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment Depreciation, amortization and depletion expense includes depreciation of fixed assets over the estimated useful life of the assets using the straight-line method, and amortization and depletion of landfill airspace assets under the units-of-consumption method. Refer to the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our accounting policies. The following table summarizes depreciation, amortization and depletion of property and equipment for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): Three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment increased $0.3 or 0.9% to $32.0 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 due to purchases of property and equipment in the normal course of business. Landfill depletion and amortization decreased $3.1 or 12.6% to $21.6 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills. 34 Nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to 2015 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment increased $0.4 or 0.4% to $95.4 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 due to purchases of property and equipment in the normal course of business. Landfill depletion and amortization decreased $5.5 or 8.2% to $61.8 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills. The impact of increased deemed permitted airspace was partially offset by increased disposal volumes. Amortization of Other Intangible Assets Amortization of other intangible assets was $10.4 and $11.1 or as a percentage of revenue, 2.9% and 3.1% , for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease in amortization expense is attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized partially offset by increased acquisition activity in the prior year. Amortization of other intangible assets was $32.2 and $32.5 or as a percentage of revenue, 3.1% and 3.1%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease in amortization expense is attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized partially offset by increased acquisition activity in the prior year. Acquisitions In the ordinary course of our business, we regularly evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy. We completed seven acquisitions during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 for a cash purchase price of $5.2 and notes payable of $0.2, subject to net working capital adjustments, which we expect to be completed within approximately one year. Seven acquisitions were completed during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 for a cash purchase price of $25.0 and notes payable of $3.3. The results of operations of each acquisition are included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. Loss on Disposal of Assets and Asset Impairments The Company disposed of certain businesses in June 2015 and recorded a loss on disposal of $10.9 for the nine months ending September 30, 2015. In connection with the sale, the Company impaired certain assets in the amount of $4.3 in the nine months ending September 30, 2015. Further, the Company strategically allowed an inactive landfill permit to lapse and in connection with the permit lapse recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $2.1 primarily for permitting costs in the nine months ending September 30, 2015. The Company recorded a loss on disposal of assets of $1.1 and $1.2 for the three and nine months ending September 30, 2016, respectively. Other, Net Changes in the fair value and settlements of the fuel derivative instruments are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and amounted to losses of $0.3 and $9.3 for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 amounted to income of $1.2 and losses of $9.5, respectively. Changes in the fair value of the interest rate caps purchased in May of 2016 are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and amounted to income of $0.3 and a loss of $2.6 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively. Income from equity investee for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively was $0.2 and $0.3 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was $1.3 and $1.1, respectively. Income from a gain on redemption of a security of $2.5 was recorded in other income (expense), net during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. 35 Interest Expense The $0.1 decrease in interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily due to lower average balances on the Term Loan B. The $1.3 decrease in interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily due to lower average balances on the Term Loan B. Cash paid for interest was $75.4 and $76.0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was 36.7% and 46.1%, respectively. We evaluate our effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impacts of permanently non-deductible expenses, interest related to previously recorded uncertain tax positions and the change in recorded valuation allowance. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to a change in forecasted book income, as well as a mix of income in the states in which we operate. Our effective income tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was 21.4% and 35.8%, respectively. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses and the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance and the mix of income in the states in which we operate. Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $1.4 and $2.0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 36 Reportable Segments Our operations are managed through three geographic regions (South, East and Midwest) that we designate as our reportable segments. Revenues and operating income/(loss) for our reportable segments for the periods indicated, are shown in the following tables: Comparison of Reportable Segments- Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 South Segment Revenue increased $3.9 or 3.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in revenue was primarily due to prior year acquisitions, higher prices and volume in our MSW waste stream, higher prices in our commercial and rolloff lines of business and higher environmental fees. The increase was partially offset by decreases in revenue due to lower prices and volume in our residential line of business, a prior year divestiture, lower trucking revenue due to lower volume of special waste projects and lower fuel fee revenue. 37 Operating income from our South Segment increased by $0.4 or 1.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to higher revenue as described above and lower fuel expense. The increase was partially offset by higher labor costs due to increased headcount, merit increases, and acquisitions and higher repairs and maintenance expense. East Segment Revenue decreased by $1.7 , or 1.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to lower revenue from shale volumes, prior year divestitures, lower disposal volumes across all waste streams and lower fuel fee revenue. The decrease was partially offset by higher revenue due to prior year acquisitions and higher environmental fees. Operating income from our East Segment increased $0.7 or 8.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a reduction in landfill depletion and amortization as a result of an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills and lower fuel expense. The increase was partially offset by lower revenue as described above and higher labor costs due to merit increases and prior year acquisitions. Midwest Segment Revenue decreased $2.9 or 2.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to lower collection volumes in all lines of business and lower fuel fee revenue. The decrease was partially offset by higher environmental fees, higher commodity sales revenue due to an increase in the market price of recyclables and higher MSW disposal revenue due to an increase in pricing. Operating income from our Midwest Segment increased by $4.4 or 25.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a reduction in landfill depletion and amortization as a result of an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills, lower MSW disposal costs, lower fuel expense, and lower repairs and maintenance expense. The increase in operating income was partially offset by lower revenue as described above. Corporate Operating loss decreased $1.6 or 11.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 , which was primarily the result of a reduction in professional fees of $1.0 due to a reduction in consulting fees associated with internal control evaluation and implementation and a $0.5 decrease in legal fees due to reduced legal claim activity. Comparison of Reportable Segments-Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 South Segment Revenue increased $5.1 or 1.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to the impact of prior year acquisitions across all lines of business, higher prices and volume for our MSW and special waste streams, higher commercial collection and rolloff revenue due to higher prices and volume and higher environmental fees. The increase was partially offset by decreases in revenue related to prior year divestitures, lower residential collection revenue due to lower prices and volume, lower fuel fee revenue, lower trucking revenue due to lower volume of special waste projects and lower landfill gas revenue due to the expiration of landfill gas credit agreements. Operating income from our South Segment increased by $13.8 or 27.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to lower losses on disposal of businesses and impairment charges in 2015 of $15.2 related to strategic divestitures which did not recur in 2016, higher revenue as described above, lower fuel expense and lower subcontract costs. The increase was partially offset by higher labor costs due 38 to increased headcount, merit increases, and start up costs related to acquisitions and new municipal contracts, higher repairs and maintenance expense and higher insurance expenses associated to our auto liability and property coverage. East Segment Revenue increased by $5.4 or 2.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to the impact of prior year acquisitions across all lines of business, higher pricing across all collection lines of business, increased volume in our MSW and C&D disposal waste streams, increased pricing on our special waste volumes and higher environmental fees. The increase was partially offset by lower volume in our commercial collection line of business, rolloff line of business and special waste volumes, lower MSW disposal pricing, lower revenue associated to shale volumes, lower revenue due to prior year divestitures and lower fuel fee revenue. Operating income from our East Segment increased $5.0 or 30.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was due to higher revenue as described above, lower fuel expense, a reduction in landfill depletion and amortization expense as a result of an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills and the impact of a non cash impairment charge in the prior period related to strategically allowing an inactive landfill permit to lapse. The increase was partially offset by higher labor costs due to merit increases and prior year acquisitions and higher repairs and maintenance expense. Midwest Segment Revenue decreased $4.7 or 1.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower volumes in all lines of business and lower fuel fee revenue. The decrease was partially offset by positive pricing in our commercial line of business, higher environmental fees, higher revenue due to prior year acquisitions and higher commodity sales revenue due to an increase in the market prices for recyclables. Operating income from our Midwest Segment increased by $8.3 or 18.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to a reduction in landfill depletion and amortization as a result of an increase in deemed permitted expansion airspace resulting from favorable developments in permitting activities at several of our landfills, lower fuel expense and lower MSW disposal costs. The increase was partially offset by lower revenue as described above. Corporate Operating loss increased $8.5 or 20.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to $7.1 in expenses related to the February launch of the initial public offering process and the evaluation of strategic alternatives, including the amendment of our credit agreement. Additionally, stock based compensation expense increased by $2.4. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operations, bank borrowings, debt offerings and equity offerings. We intend to use excess cash on hand and cash from operating activities, together with bank borrowings, to fund purchases of property and equipment, working capital, acquisitions and debt repayments. Actual debt repayments may include purchases of our outstanding indebtedness in the secondary market or otherwise. We believe that our current cash balances, cash from operating activities and funds available under our Revolver will provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our anticipated capital requirements and maturing obligations as they come due. At September30, 2016 , the Company had negative working capital which was driven by purchases of property and equipment and landfill construction and development during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as well as the use of our cash to fund debt repayments and to return capital to the parent. At December 31, 2015, we had negative working capital which was driven by repayments on the Term Loan B and cash used for acquisitions. The Company has more than adequate availability on its Revolver to fund short term working capital requirements. 39 Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents and Debt Obligations The table below presents a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and debt balances (in millions): Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following table sets forth for the periods indicated a summary of our cash flows (in millions): Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities We generated $191.7 of cash flows from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , compared with $206.6 during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The variance was primarily due to the following: An increase in accounts receivable in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to a decrease in the comparable prior period which accounted for $10.6 of the variance. The accounts receivable decrease in the prior year was due to increased emphasis on collection activities starting in late 2014 that resulted in significant improvement in days sales outstanding throughout 2015. As of September 30, 2016, our days sales outstanding were 45.8, or 30.3 days net of deferred revenue, consistent with our days sales outstanding as of September 30, 2015. A smaller increase in accrued expenses and other long term liabilities in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 which accounted for $7.2 of the variance. This is primarily due to losses related to fuel derivatives that were accrued in the previous year and paid in the current year; Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $1.4 and $2.0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cash paid for interest was $75.4 and $76.0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities are used to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, interest payments and debt and capital repayments. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities We used $124.9 of cash in investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared with $126.4 during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a decrease of $1.5 . The variance was primarily due to the following: A reduction of $19.7 in cash expenditures used to fund acquisitions; Lower cash expenditures of $5.5 used to fund the purchase of property and equipment and construction and development; Lower proceeds from the maturity of securities of $15.0; and Lower proceeds from the sale of businesses of $9.2 due to prior year divestitures. 40 Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , net cash used in financing activities was $66.9 compared to $78.3 during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a decrease of $11.4 . The variance was primarily due to the following: A decrease in net repayments on debt instruments of $21.9 due to lower cash provided by operating activities; and An increase in capital returned to the parent of $12.4. Senior Secured Credit Facilities In November 2012, we entered into (i)a $1,800.0 term loan B facility and (ii)a $300.0 Revolver and together with the Term Loan B, (the Senior Secured Credit Facilities) with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as administrative agent, and affiliates of Barclays Capital Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Macquarie Capital (USA) Inc., UBS Securities LLC and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, and other lenders from time to time party thereto and effected re-pricing transactions on the Term Loan B in February 2014 and February 2013, that reduced the applicable interest rate floor by 50 basis points and the applicable margin by 100 basis points, respectively. See Note 5, Debt, to our condensed consolidated financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , for additional details regarding our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. On August 4, 2016, the Company entered into an amendment to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement. The amendment, among other things, extended the maturity date to October 2019 with respect to approximately $280.0 of the Company's $300.0 commitments under the revolving credit facility. Borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities can be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. As of September30, 2016 , we had an aggregate committed capacity of $300.0 , of which $100.0 was available for letters of credit. At September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had an aggregate of approximately $44.6 and $45.9, respectively, of letters of credit outstanding. At September30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we had $0.0 and $32.0, respectively, of borrowings on the Revolver. The agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities requires us to comply with certain financial and other covenants, including a total leverage ratio for the benefit of the lenders under the Revolver that is applicable when there are outstanding loans or letters of credit under the Revolver. Compliance with these covenants is a condition to any incremental borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and failure to meet these covenants would enable the lenders to require repayment of any outstanding loans (which would adversely affect our liquidity). As of September30, 2016 , we were in compliance with the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants will be highly dependent on our results of operations and, to the extent necessary, our ability to implement remedial measures such as reductions in operating costs. We are subject to a total leverage ratio covenant for the applicable periods as indicated. At September30, 2016 , the total leverage ratio was 5.92:1:00. Upon consummation of our IPO, the total leverage ratio calculation was amended to exclude losses on fuel derivative instruments. Assuming this amendment was in place as of September 30, 2016, the pro forma total leverage ratio would have been 5.63:1:00. 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2020 On October9, 2012, we issued $550.0 aggregate principal amount of 8 1/4% Senior Notes due 2020 pursuant to an indenture between the Company, the guarantor party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. As of September30, 2016 , we were in compliance with the covenants under the Indenture. See Note 5, Debt, to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding the notes. 41 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance instruments and operating leases, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. Seasonality We expect our operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring in the East and Midwest segments because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in these regions of the U.S. In addition, some of our operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items As of September30, 2016 , we have $10.3 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of other long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. Financial Assurance We must provide financial assurance to governmental agencies and a variety of other entities under applicable environmental regulations relating to our landfill operations for capping, closure and post-closure costs, and related to our performance under certain collection, landfill and transfer station contracts. We satisfy these financial assurance requirements by providing surety bonds and letters of credit. The amount of the financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs is determined by applicable state environmental regulations. The financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs may be associated with a portion of the landfill or the entire landfill. Generally, states require a third-party engineering specialist to determine the estimated capping, closure and post-closure costs that are used to determine the required amount of financial assurance for a landfill. The amount of financial assurance required can, and generally will, differ from the obligation determined and recorded under U.S. GAAP. The amount of the financial assurance requirements related to contract performance varies by contract. Additionally, we must provide financial assurance for our insurance program and collateral for certain performance obligations. We do not expect a material increase in financial assurance requirements in the foreseeable future, although the mix of financial assurance instruments may change. These financial instruments are issued in the normal course of business and are not considered company indebtedness. Because we currently have no liability for these financial assurance instruments, they are not reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. However, we record capping, closure and post-closure liabilities and self-insurance liabilities as they are incurred. The underlying obligations of the financial assurance instruments, in excess of those already reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets, would be recorded if it is probable that we would be unable to fulfill our related obligations. We do not expect this to occur. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. However, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. Critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require management's most subjective judgments. A summary of significant accounting policies is disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our critical accounting policies are further described under the caption "Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 42 Recently Issued and Proposed Accounting Standards For a description of new accounting standards that may affect us, see Note 2, Basis of Presentation, to our unaudited consolidated financial statements in Part 1 of this Form 10-Q.Item 1. Financial Statements Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 1. Business Operations Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries, as a consolidated entity, is a nonhazardous solid waste services company providing collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services to customers in the South, Midwest and Eastern regions of the United States. The Company manages and evaluates its principal operations through three reportable operating segments on a regional basis. Those operating segments are the South, East and Midwest regions which provide collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services. Additional information related to segments can be found in Note 9. Four acquisitions were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2017 for aggregate prices consisting of a cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $67.9 and notes payable of $0.7 , subject to net working capital adjustments and other commitments, which are expected to be completed within approximately one year. Four acquisitions were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2016 for a cash purchase price of $1.4 and notes payable of $0.2 . The results of operations of each acquisition are included in the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. The Company is still reviewing information surrounding property and equipment, intangible assets, current liabilities and long-term liabilities related to acquisitions completed subsequent to March 31, 2016. See Note 12, Acquisitions, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further details on acquisitions completed during the three months ended March 31, 2017. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company entered into an Asset Transfer and Liability Assumption Agreement with BFI Waste Systems of North America, LLC. The Company received a cash payment of $24.0 which was recorded as an operating cash flow. In exchange for this payment, the Company assumed certain post-closure liabilities of a closed portion of a landfill and became responsible for expenditures related to a gas infrastructure system. The assumed post-closure liabilities and expenditures related to the gas infrastructure system approximate the amount of the cash payment. The payments related to the assumed post-closure liabilities and expenditures related to the gas infrastructure system will be made in future periods. 2. Basis of Presentation The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements include its wholly-owned subsidiaries and their respective subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements as of March31, 2017 and for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 are unaudited. In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, which, unless otherwise disclosed, are of a normal recurring nature, necessary for a fair statement of the balance sheet, results of operations, comprehensive loss, cash flows, and changes in equity for the periods presented. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the entire year. The financial statements presented herein should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . In conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Company uses estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that it uses is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In preparing the Company's financial statements, the more subjective areas that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to: accounting for long-lived assets, including recoverability; landfill development costs, final capping, closure and post-closure costs; valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets; liabilities for potential litigation; claims and assessments; liabilities for environmental remediation; stock compensation; accounting for goodwill and intangible asset impairments; deferred taxes; uncertain tax positions; self-insurance reserves; and estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that the Company uses in preparation of its financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2017-04 which simplifies the goodwill impairment test by eliminating step 2 of the quantitative assessment. Under the guidance, when a quantitative assessment is required, an entity will perform a goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge will be measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Additionally, entities should consider income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. This amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2020 and early adoption of the standard is permitted. The Company's early adoption on January 1, 2017 did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01 which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. The amendments provide a screen to determine when a set of assets and activities is not a business. If the screen is not met, the amendments require further consideration of inputs, substantive processes and outputs to determine whether the transaction is an acquisition of a business. The new update is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 with early adoption permitted. The Company's early adoption on January 1, 2017 did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset with a corresponding lease liability, and lessors to recognize a net lease investment. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures will also be required to increase transparency and comparability among organizations. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of the standard is permitted, however; the Company does not expect to early adopt the ASU. Lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented. While the Company is still assessing the impact of this standard, it does not believe this standard will have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance. The new standard requires that a company recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Companies will need to use more judgment and estimates than under the guidance currently in effect, including estimating the amount of variable revenue to recognize over each identified performance obligation. Additional disclosures will be required to help users of financial statements understand the nature, amount and timing of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts. This standard will become effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter 2018 and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company anticipates adopting the standard as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. To assess the impact of the standard, the Company is using internal resources to lead the implementation efforts. The Company's internal resources reviewed the amended guidance, attended training classes and consulted with other accounting professionals to assist with interpretation of the amended guidance. The Company completed a review of its municipal contracts and documented key terms. The Company is in the process of sampling additional contracts based on size and specifically identified contract characteristics that could be accounted for differently under the amended guidance. Changes to processes and internal controls are being identified to meet the standard's reporting and disclosure requirements. The Company is still in the process of determining if the new standard will impact the timing of revenue recognition. 10 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 3. Landfill Liabilities Liabilities for final closure and post-closure costs for the year ended December31, 2016 and for the three months ended March31, 2017 are shown in the table below: 4. Loss Per Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic loss per share and loss per share, assuming dilution: Basic net loss per share is based on the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding for each of the periods presented. Net loss per share, assuming dilution, is based on the weighted-average number of shares of common stock equivalents outstanding adjusted for the effects of common stock that may be issued as a result of potentially dilutive instruments. The Company's potentially dilutive instruments are made up of equity awards, which include stock options, restricted stock awards, and performance stock awards. Pursuant to the FASB's Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 260, Earnings Per Share, the Company includes additional shares in the computation of net income per share, assuming dilution. This is not applicable for either period presented as the Company is in a net loss position for each period. The additional shares that would be included in diluted net income per share would represent the number of shares that would be issued if all of the above potentially dilutive instruments were converted into common stock. When calculating diluted net income per share, the ASC requires the Company to include the potential shares that would be outstanding if all outstanding stock options were exercised. This number is different from outstanding stock options because it is offset by shares the Company could repurchase using the proceeds from these hypothetical exercises to obtain the common stock equivalent. 11 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Approximately 3.8 million and 3.9 million of outstanding stock awards for the first quarters ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016, respectively, were excluded from the diluted loss per share calculation because their effect was antidilutive. 5. Debt The following table summarizes the major components of debt at each balance sheet date and provides the maturities and interest rate ranges of each major category of debt: All borrowings under the Term Loan B and the Revolver are guaranteed by each of the Company's current and future U.S. subsidiaries (which also guarantee the Senior Notes), subject to certain agreed-upon exemptions. All guarantors are jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally liable. There are no significant restrictions on the Company or any guarantor to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan. Revolver and Letter of Credit Facilities As of March31, 2017 , the Company had an aggregate committed capacity of $300.0 , of which $100.0 was available for letters of credit under its credit facilities. The Company's Revolver is its primary source of letter of credit capacity and expires in 2021. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had $22.0 and $0.0 of borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, respectively. As of March31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had an aggregate of $42.1 and $42.1 , respectively, of letters of credit outstanding under its credit facilities. 6. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities The following table summarizes the fair values of derivative instruments recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets: The Company has not offset fair value of assets and liabilities recognized for its derivative instruments. 12 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Interest Rate Caps In December 2012, the Company entered into four interest rate cap agreements to hedge the risk of a rise in interest rates and associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The interest rate caps expired in various tranches through fiscal 2016. The Company recorded a premium of $5.0 in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and amortized the premium to interest expense based upon decreases in time value of the caps. Amortization expense was approximately $0.2 for the three months ending March 31, 2016 . In May 2016, the Company entered into three interest rate cap agreements as economic hedges against the risk of a rise in interest rates and the associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The Company is paying the $5.5 premium of the caps equally over eleven quarters beginning on March 31, 2017. The Company elected not to apply hedge accounting to these interest rate caps therefore changes in the fair value of the interest rate caps are recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded a loss of $1.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 of which $0.5 was a realized loss. The notional value of the contracts aggregated were $800.0 as of March 31, 2017 and will remain constant through maturity in September 2019. Commodity Futures Contracts Prior to fiscal 2017, the company utilized fuel derivative instruments (commodity futures contracts) as economic hedges of the risk that fuel prices would fluctuate. The Company has used financial derivative instruments for both short-term and long-term time frames and utilized fixed price swap agreements to manage the identified risk. The Company does not currently have plans to enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. All fuel derivative contracts entered into by the Company expired prior to fiscal 2017. Changes in the fair value and settlements of the fuel derivative instruments were recorded in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded losses of $0.6 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. 7. Income Taxes The Company's effective income tax benefit rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was 40.2% and 32.9% , respectively. We evaluate our effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to the favorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance and the favorable impact of state and local taxes. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance and the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses. As of March31, 2017, we have $10.2 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term "Other liabilities" in our condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. 8. Commitments and Contingencies Financial Instruments The Company has obtained letters of credit, performance bonds and insurance policies for the performance of landfill final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, environmental remediation, and other obligations. Letters of credit are supported by the Company's Revolver (Note 5). The Company does not expect that any claims against or draws on these instruments would have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company has not experienced any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining the required financial assurance instruments for its current operations. In an ongoing effort to mitigate risks of future cost increases and reductions in available capacity, the Company continues to evaluate various options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance. 13 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Insurance The Company carries insurance coverage for protection of its assets and operations from certain risks including automobile liability, general liability, real and personal property, workers' compensation, directors and officers liability, pollution, legal liability and other coverages the Company believes are customary to the industry. The Company's exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally limited to the per incident deductible, or self-insured retention, under the related insurance policy. Its exposure, however, could increase if its insurers are unable to meet their commitments on a timely basis. The Company has retained a significant portion of the risks related to its automobile, general liability, workers' compensation and health claims programs. For its self-insured retentions, the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, is based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from the Company's assumptions used. The Company does not expect the impact of any known casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Litigation and Other Matters In February 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries were named as defendants in a purported class action suit in the Circuit Court of Macon County, Alabama. Similar class action complaints were brought against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries in 2011 in Duval County, Florida and in 2013 in Quitman County, Georgia and Barbour County, Alabama, and in 2014 in Chester County, Pennsylvania. The 2013 Georgia complaint was dismissed in March 2014. In late 2015 in Gwinnett County, Georgia, another purported class action suit was filed. The plaintiffs in those cases primarily allege that the defendants charged improper fees (fuel, administrative and environmental fees) that were in breach of the plaintiffs' service agreements with the Company and seek damages in an unspecified amount. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses against these purported class actions, which it will vigorously pursue. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of these cases, the unknown size of any potential class, and legal and factual issues in dispute, the outcome of these cases cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. In November 2014, the Attorney General of the State of Vermont filed a complaint against the Company relating to the Moretown, Vermont landfill regarding alleged odor and other environmental-related noncompliances with environmental laws and regulations and environmental permits. In the complaint, the Attorney General requested that the State of Vermont Superior Court find the Company liable for the alleged noncompliances, issue related civil penalties, and order the Company to reimburse the State of Vermont for enforcement costs. While the complaint does not specify a monetary penalty, prior correspondence from the Attorney General of the State of Vermont indicates that it may seek a penalty relating to the alleged noncompliances that is not expected to be material. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of this case, the outcome cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. In February 2017, a waste slide occurred in one cell at the Company's Greentree Landfill in Kersey, Pennsylvania.During the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recorded a charge in operating expenses of $5.4 , representing the Company's current estimate of probable costs to relocate displaced material and restore infrastructure, net of estimated insurance recoveries.Actual costs could vary depending on actual insurance recoveries and actual expenses incurred. The Company is subject to various other proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims and regulatory investigations arising in the ordinary course of its business. Many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. Actions filed against the Company include commercial, customer, and employment-related claims. The plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. These actions are in various procedural stages, and some are covered in part by insurance. Although the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome and the range of loss cannot be currently estimated, the Company does not believe that the eventual outcome of any such action could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Multiemployer Defined Benefit Pension Plans Approximately 13.1% of the Company's workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with various local unions across its operating regions. As a result of some of these agreements, certain of the Company's subsidiaries are participating employers in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer, defined benefit pension plans for the affected employees. In connection with its ongoing renegotiation of various collective bargaining agreements, the Company may discuss and negotiate 14 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) for the complete or partial withdrawal from one or more of these pension plans. A complete or partial withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan may also occur if employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement vote to decertify a union from continuing to represent them. The Company is not aware of any such actions in connection with continuing operations. As a result of certain discontinued operations, the Company is potentially exposed to certain withdrawal liabilities. The Company does not believe that any future withdrawals, individually or in the aggregate, from the multiemployer plans to which it contributes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or liquidity. However, such withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations for a particular reporting period, depending on the number of employees withdrawn in any future period and the financial condition of the multiemployer plan(s) at the time of such withdrawal(s). Tax Matters The Company has open tax years dating back to 2000 in certain jurisdictions. Prior to the acquisition, MW Star Holdings, Corp. (Veolia ES Solid Waste division) was part of a consolidated group and is still subject to IRS and state examinations dating back to 2004. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition of Veolia ES Solid Waste, Inc., the Company is entitled to certain indemnifications for Veolia ES Solid Waste Division's pre-acquisition tax liabilities. The Company maintains a liability for uncertain tax positions, the balance of which management believes is adequate. Results of audit assessments by taxing authorities are not currently expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. 9. Segment and Related Information The Company manages and evaluates its operations primarily through its South, East and Midwest regional segments. These three groups are presented below as the Company's reportable segments. The Company's three geographic operating segments provide collection, transfer, disposal and recycling services. The Company serves residential, commercial and industrial, and municipal customers throughout its operating segments. As disclosed in the Company's 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company reorganized its internal structure during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 by moving two business units from the East segment to the South segment. Segment revenue, operating income and depreciation and amortization for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 have been reclassified to reflect these changes to the Company's operating segments. As a result for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, $5.4 of segment revenue was reclassified from the East to the South, $0.8 of operating income was reclassified from the East to the South and $0.5 of depreciation and amortization was reclassified from the East to the South. Summarized financial information concerning reportable segments for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 are shown in the table below: 15 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Fluctuations in the Company's operating results may be caused by many factors, including period-to-period changes in the relative contribution of revenue by each line of business and operating segment and by general economic conditions. In addition, its revenues and income from operations typically reflect seasonal patterns. The Company expects its operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring in the East and Midwest segments because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in these regions of the United States. In addition, some of the Company's operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as hurricanes that most often impact the South region, can increase the Company's revenues in the areas affected. While weather-related and other occurrences can boost revenues through additional work, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions, including severe winter storms, may result in the temporary suspension of the Company's operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. No such events have occurred during the periods presented. 10. Fair Value Measurements Assets and Liabilities Accounted for at Fair Value In measuring fair values of assets and liabilities, the Company uses valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs (Level 1) and minimize the use of unobservable inputs (Level 3). The Company also uses market data or assumptions that it believes market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including assumptions about risk when appropriate. The carrying value for certain of the Company's financial instruments approximate fair value because of their short-term nature. The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include the following: 16 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) The fair value of the interest rate caps are determined using standard option valuation models with assumptions about interest rates based on those observed in underlying markets (Level 2 in fair value hierarchy). Fair Value of Debt The fair value of the Company's debt (Level 2) is estimated using indirectly observable market inputs, except for the Revolver for which cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of the interest rate. Although the Company has determined the estimated fair value amounts using quoted market prices, considerable judgment is required in interpreting the information and in developing the estimated fair values. Therefore, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company, or holders of the instruments, could realize in a current market exchange. The fair value estimates are based on information available as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 , respectively. The estimated fair value of the Company's debt is as follows: The carrying value of the Company's debt at March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 was $1,923.3 and $1,905.0 , respectively. 11. Stock-based Compensation Named Executive Officer (NEO) Grants During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, there were 50,464 NEO restricted stock units granted under the 2016 Omnibus Equity Plan (the "2016 Plan") with a fair value of $22.00 per share. The restricted stock units will vest in three equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of the grant. During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, there were 100,930 NEO performance stock units (PSUs) granted under the 2016 Plan with a fair value of $22.00 per share. The PSUs will vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of the grant. The PSUs shall be measured based on the Company's budget and are weighted as follows: Adjusted EBITDA: 50% ; Adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures: 30% ; and Revenue: 20% . The measurement criteria begins with an attainment of 90% of the budget which results in vesting of 25% of the shares underlying the PSUs granted and ends with an attainment of 110% of the budget which results in vesting of 175% of the shares underlying the PSUs granted. Performance will be measured separately for each of the three years in the performance period and the total number of PSUs earned at the conclusion of the three -year performance period will be the sum of the PSUs earned with respect to each individual year. During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, there were 213,507 NEO options granted under the 2016 Plan. Each option had an estimated fair value of $5.20 per option on the date of grant and each option had an exercise price of $22.00 . The options will vest in three equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of the grant. The contractual term of each option is ten years. During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, 118,217 performance options were granted to the Company's Chief Executive Officer based on fiscal 2016 performance criteria. Each option had an estimated fair value of $5.86 per option on the date of grant and each option had an exercise price of $23.30 . The options will vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of the grant. The contractual term of each option is ten years. Non-Employee Director Grants During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, there were 4,545 restricted stock units granted under the 2016 Plan to non-employee directors with a fair value of $22.00 per share. The restricted stock units will vest in three equal installments over each of the first three anniversaries of the date of the grant. 17 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Annual Stock Option Grants During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, there were 788,500 annual options granted under the 2016 Plan for employees other than the NEO's. Each option had an estimated fair value of $5.32 per option on the date of grant and each option had an exercise price of $22.00 . The options will vest 20% on date of grant and 20% in four equal installments over each of the first four anniversaries of the date of the grant. The contractual term of each option is ten years. 12. Acquisitions Four acquisitions were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2017 for aggregate prices consisting of a cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $67.9 and notes payable of $0.7 , subject to net working capital adjustments and other commitments, which are expected to be completed within approximately one year. The goodwill recognized of $26.8 represents synergies from the combined operations of the acquired entities and the Company. The Company is still reviewing information surrounding property and equipment, intangible assets, current liabilities and long-term liabilities resulting from the acquisitions, which may result in changes to the Company's preliminary purchase price allocation during subsequent periods. Transaction costs related to these acquisitions were not significant for the quarter ended March 31, 2017. The results of operations of each acquisition are included in the consolidated statements of operations of the Company subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets acquired, net of cash acquired, during the quarter ended March 31, 2017: The following table presents the allocation of the purchase price to other intangible assets: The amount of goodwill recorded related to these acquisitions for the South Segment, East Segment, and Midwest Segment was $0.0 , $26.6 , and $0.2 , respectively. The amount of goodwill deductible for tax purposes related to these acquisitions is $0.2 . The weighted average life of other intangible assets in years is as follows: 18 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 13. Subsequent Events Collection Operations Facility Lease On May 1, 2017, the Company commenced a capital lease for a 22,500 square foot building and related improvements near Orlando, Florida. The Company plans to operate the premises as a terminal for the storage and maintenance of collection vehicles. The lease shall terminate on the last day of the ten th lease year and the Company shall have the right to extend the term of the lease for five consecutive periods of five years each. The Company expects to record approximately $7.2 of property and equipment and $7.2 of long term debt, less current maturities, on the balance sheet during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Intangible Asset Impairment The Company has collection operations in South Carolina which operates in a competitor owned disposal market that does not align with the Company's long-term market strategy of vertically integrated operations with Company owned disposal sites or marketplace neutral disposal sites. During April of fiscal 2017, facts and circumstances led the Company to evaluate the long-term market strategy for the South Carolina collection operations and re-evaluate the cash flows provided by this market. The Company determined it appropriate to impair certain intangible assets that were recorded as part of the purchase accounting when these entities were acquired. Based on these facts and circumstances, the Company anticipates recording an intangible asset impairment charge of $13.1 during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. 19 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included under Item1. In addition, you should refer to our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and related Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. All dollar amounts are presented in millions, unless otherwise stated. Overview We are a leading integrated provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services, operating primarily in secondary markets or under exclusive arrangements. We have a presence in 16 states across the Midwest, South and East regions of the United States, serving approximately 2.8 million residential and over 200,000 commercial and industrial (C&I) customers through our extensive network of 91 collection operations, 73 transfer stations, 22 owned or operated recycling facilities and 40 owned or operated landfills. We operate 5 landfill gas and renewable energy projects and have an additional 12 third party owned landfill gas and renewable energy projects. We also have post-closure responsibility for 5 closed landfills. We seek to drive financial performance in markets in which we own or operate a landfill or in certain disposal-neutral markets, where the landfill is owned by our municipal customer. In markets in which we own or operate a landfill, we aim to create and maintain vertically integrated operations through which we manage a majority of our customers' waste from the point of collection through the point of disposal, a process we refer to as internalization. By internalizing a majority of the waste in these markets, we are able to deliver high quality customer service while also ensuring a stable revenue stream and maximizing profitability and cash flow from operations. In disposal-neutral markets, we focus selectively on opportunities where we can negotiate exclusive arrangements with our municipal customers, facilitating highly efficient and profitable collection operations with lower capital requirements. Geographically, we focus our business principally in secondary, or less densely populated non-urban, markets where the presence of large national providers is generally more limited. We also compete selectively in primary, or densely populated urban, markets where we can capitalize on opportunities for vertical integration through our high-quality transfer and disposal infrastructure and where we can benefit from highly efficient collection route density. We maintain an attractive mix of revenue from varying sources, including residential collections, C&I collections, landfill gas and special waste streams, and fees charged to third parties for disposal in our network of transfer stations and landfills. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the periods indicated our consolidated results of operations and the percentage relationship that certain items from our condensed consolidated financial statements bear to revenue (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). 20 Three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to 2016 Operating income decreased $1.7 or 13.1% to $11.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily the result of the following: Expenses recorded of $5.4, net of estimated insurance recoveries, during the three months ended March 31, 2017 related to the Greentree landfill waste slide; Higher salary and wage expense of $2.2 due to merit increases, acquisition activity, higher healthcare costs and higher workers' compensation cost. The decrease for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was partially offset by the following: Higher environmental fee revenue of $3.4 as a result of a rate increase that went into effect in July of fiscal 2016; Higher recycling revenue, net of recycling rebates, of $2.5 due to an increase in recycling commodity prices. Revenue Through our subsidiaries, we generate revenue primarily by providing collection and disposal services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. Our remaining revenue is generated from recycling, fuel and environmental fees, landfill gas-to-energy operations and other ancillary revenue-generating activities. Revenues from our collection operations consist of fees we receive from municipal, subscription, residential and C&I customers and are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the recycling, transfer station or disposal facilities and our disposal costs. Standard C&I service agreements are typically three to five years, and we have historically maintained strong relationships with our C&I customers. Our municipal customer relationships are generally supported by exclusive contracts ranging from three to ten years in initial duration with subsequent renewal periods. Certain municipal contracts have annual price escalation clauses that are tied to changes in an underlying base index such as the consumer price index. We provide commercial front load and temporary and permanent rolloff service offerings to our commercial customers. While the majority of our rolloff services are provided to customers under long-term service agreements, we generally do not enter into contracts with our temporary rolloff customers due to the relatively short-term nature of most construction and demolition (C&D) projects. Our transfer stations and landfills generate revenue from disposal or tipping fees. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of fees which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue consists of disposal or tipping fees and proceeds from the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The amounts charged for collection, disposal, and recycling services may include fuel fees and environmental fees. Fuel fees and environmental fees are not designed to be specific to the direct costs and expenses to service an individual customer's account, but rather are designed to address and to help recover changes in our overall cost structure and to achieve an operating margin acceptable to us. Other revenue is comprised of ancillary revenue-generating activities, such as trucking, landfill gas-to-energy operations at municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills, management of third-party owned landfills, customer service charges relating to overdue payments and customer administrative fees relating to customers who request paper copies of invoices rather than opting for electronic invoices. 21 The following table sets forth our consolidated revenues by line of business for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of total service revenues). The following table reflects changes in components of our revenue, as a percentage of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: Average yield is defined as aggregate contribution of price changes excluding recycled commodities and fuel fee revenue. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we experienced the following changes in components of our revenue as compared to the same period in fiscal 2016: Average yield increased revenue by 2.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily due to positive pricing related to our MSW disposal volumes, special waste disposal volumes and all of our collection operations. Additionally, our environmental fee contributed to the increase due to a rate increase that went into effect in July 2016; Recycling revenue increased revenue by 1.4% during the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to an increase in recycling commodity prices; Fuel fee revenue increased revenue by 0.4% during the three months ended March 31, 2017. These fees fluctuate in response to changes in prices for diesel fuel on which the surcharge is based and, consequently, any increase in fuel prices results in an increase in our revenue. Our fuel surcharge fees reset on a monthly basis therefore an increase in our fuel fee revenue is delayed in comparison to the increase in our fuel expense when diesel fuel prices increase; Organic volume decreased revenue by 1.7% during the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily due to the loss of residential contracts in our Midwest and East segments and lower shale volumes in our East segment; Acquisitions increased revenue by 1.8% during the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to our execution of acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy; Divestitures decreased revenue by 0.2% during the three months ended March 31, 2017 due to our strategic decisions to divest low margin businesses in fiscal 2016. 22 Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our operating expenses (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). Our operating expenses include the following: Labor and related benefits, which consist of salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits, incentive compensation and payroll taxes; Transfer and disposal costs which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations as well as transportation and subcontractor costs (which include costs for independent haulers who transport waste from transfer stations to our disposal facilities and costs for local operators who provide waste handling services associated with markets outside our standard operating areas); Maintenance and repairs expenses which include labor, maintenance and repairs to our vehicles, equipment and containers; Fuel costs which include the direct cost of fuel used by our vehicles, net of fuel tax credits; Franchise fees and taxes which consist of municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; Risk management expenses which include casualty insurance premiums, claims payments, estimates for claims incurred but not reported and casualty losses; Other expenses which include expenses such as facility operating costs, equipment rent, leachate treatment and disposal, and other landfill maintenance costs; Accretion expense related to landfill capping, closure and post-closure is included in operating expenses in our condensed consolidated statement of operations, but, it is excluded from the table below (refer to "Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations" for a detailed discussion of the changes in amounts). The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, excluding accretion expense on our landfill retirement obligations (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): 23 The cost categories shown above may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. Thus, you should exercise caution when comparing our operating expenses by cost component to that of other companies. Three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to 2016 Operating expenses increased by $15.4 or 7.3% to $225.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 from $209.9 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The change reflects the following: Labor and related benefits increased by $2.2 or 3.0% to $75.4 which was primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity, higher health care costs and higher workers' compensation costs; Transfer and disposal costs increased by $2.0 or 4.4% to $47.6 primarily due to higher costs as a result of acquisition activity, third party trucking costs and higher recycling rebates due to the increase in recycling commodity prices; Maintenance and repairs expense increased by $1.2 or 3.8% to $33.2 . The increase was driven by increased labor costs primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity and higher health care costs; Fuel costs increased $3.6 or 29.5% to $15.8 primarily resulting from increases in diesel fuel prices; Franchise fees and taxes decreased $0.3 or 2.1% to $14.3 primarily due to changes in the mix of waste in the Midwest segment; Risk management expense increased $0.7 or 8.3% to $9.1 primarily due to higher automobile and property insurance costs; Other operating costs increased $0.6 or 2.5% to $24.5 primarily due to an increase in maintenance costs related to a landfill gas control system; We recorded $5.4 of costs, net of estimated insurance recoveries, associated with the Greentree landfill waste slide. Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations Accretion expense was $3.6 and $3.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase of $0.3 was primarily attributable to the assumption of post-closure responsibility at one of our landfills during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and the acquisition of a landfill during the three months ended March 31, 2017. For a discussion of factors affecting capping obligations, see the critical accounting policies in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, legal and professional fees and other expenses. Salaries expenses include salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits and incentive compensation for corporate and field general management, field support functions, sales force, accounting and finance, legal, management information systems, and clerical and administrative departments. Other expenses include rent and office costs, fees for professional services provided by third parties, marketing, directors' and officers' insurance, general employee relocation, travel, entertainment and bank charges, but exclude any such amounts recorded as restructuring charges. The following table provides the components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): 24 Three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to 2016 Our salaries expenses increased by $5.1 or 21.0% to $29.4 primarily attributable to a $3.9 increase in stock based compensation expense and an increase in severance expense of $0.8. Stock based compensation expense increased due to our compensation structure shifting more towards equity based compensation and the impact of initial public offering related awards. Additionally, our annual stock options were issued during the first quarter in fiscal 2017 compared to the second quarter in fiscal 2016 and these options vest 20% on the date of grant resulting in 20% of stock compensation expense being recorded on the date of grant. Legal and professional fees decreased $6.5 or 67.0% to $3.2 primarily due to $7.2 of expenses incurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2016 related to the launch of the initial public offering process that was not completed. Other selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.4 or 12.7% to $12.4 primarily due to increased bad debt expense and higher corporate insurance costs. Depreciation and Amortization The following table summarizes the components of depreciation and amortization expense by asset type (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). For a detailed discussion of depreciation and amortization by asset type refer to the discussion included in the following two sections herein. Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment Depreciation, amortization and depletion expense includes depreciation of fixed assets over the estimated useful life of the assets using the straight-line method, and amortization and depletion of landfill airspace assets under the units-of-consumption method. Refer to the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our accounting policies. The following table summarizes depreciation, amortization and depletion of property and equipment for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): Three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to 2016 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment increased $0.8 or 2.5% to $32.5 due to acquisition activity. Landfill depletion and amortization increased $0.2 or 1.1% to $18.5 due to acquisition activity. 25 Amortization of Other Intangible Assets Amortization of other intangible assets was $10.4 and $10.8 or as a percentage of revenue, 3.0% and 3.2% , for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in amortization expense is attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized partially offset by increased acquisition activity in the current year. Acquisitions In the ordinary course of our business, we regularly evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy. We completed four acquisitions during the three months ended March 31, 2017 for a cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $67.9 and notes payable of $0.7, subject to net working capital adjustments, which we expect to be completed within approximately one year. Four acquisitions were completed during the three months ended March 31, 2016 for a cash purchase price of $1.4 and notes payable of $0.2. The results of operations of each acquisition are included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. Other, Net Changes in the fair value and settlements of derivative instruments are recorded in other (expense) income, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and amounted to losses of $1.3 and $0.6 for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Income from equity investee for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively was $0.4 and $0.5. Interest Expense The $11.9 decrease in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was due to the benefit from lower debt levels as a result of paying down debt with our initial public offering proceeds and lower interest rates due to refinancing our debt structure in November of fiscal 2016. See Note 12, Long Term Debt, to our audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on our debt refinancing. Cash paid for interest was $14.8 and $17.7 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Income Taxes Our effective income tax benefit rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was 40.2% and 32.9%, respectively. We evaluate our effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to the favorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance and the favorable impact of state and local taxes. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance and the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses. Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $0.3 and $0.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 26 Reportable Segments Our operations are managed through three geographic regions (South, East and Midwest) that we designate as our reportable segments. As disclosed in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we reorganized our internal structure during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 by moving two business units from the East segment to the South segment. Segment revenue, operating income and depreciation and amortization for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 have been reclassified to reflect these changes to our operating segments. As a result, for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, $5.4 of segment revenue was reclassified from the East to the South, $0.8 of operating income was reclassified from the East to the South and $0.5 of depreciation and amortization was reclassified from the East to the South. Revenues, operating income/(loss) and depreciation and amortization for our reportable segments for the periods indicated, are shown in the following tables: Comparison of Reportable Segments- Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 South Segment Revenue increased $6.9 or 5.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in revenue was due to higher prices in all of our collection operations of $2.0, higher recycling revenue of $1.9 due an increase in recycling commodity prices, the positive impact of acquisitions of $1.8 and higher environmental fees of $1.1 due to a rate increase that went into effect in July of 2016. Operating income from our South Segment increased by $1.5 or 7.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to higher revenue as described above partially offset by higher disposal and transportation costs of $1.8, higher salary and wages of $1.6 due to merit increases, higher healthcare costs and higher workers' compensation costs and higher net fuel costs of $1.1 due to an increase in diesel fuel prices. East Segment Revenue increased by $3.2 , or 3.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to the impact of current year acquisitions of $4.2 and higher third party trucking revenue of $1.6 due to special waste project activity. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in shale related revenue of $2.2. Operating income from our East Segment decreased $5.4 or 207.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease was primarily due to costs associated with the Greentree landfill waste slide. 27 Midwest Segment Revenue increased $3.5 or 2.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in recycling revenue of $3.0 due to an increase in recycling commodity prices, higher prices in all of our collection operations of $2.0 and an increase in environmental fees of $1.8 due to a rate increase that went into effect in July of fiscal 2016. The increases were partially offset by a reduction in residential revenue of $3.0 due to the loss of municipal contracts in fiscal 2016. Operating income from our Midwest Segment decreased by $0.1 or 0.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The revenue increase of $3.5 above was offset by higher recycling rebates of $1.0 due to an increase in recycling commodity prices, higher fuel expense of $0.9 due to an increase in diesel fuel prices, an increase in maintenance costs of $0.5 related to a landfill gas control system and various other operating costs of $1.2. Corporate Operating loss decreased $2.3 or 10.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily due to expenses incurred of $7.2 during the first quarter of fiscal 2016 related to the launch of the initial public offering process that was not completed. The positive impact of this for the quarter was partially offset by higher stock compensation expense of $3.9 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operations, bank borrowings, debt offerings and equity offerings. We intend to use excess cash on hand and cash from operating activities, together with bank borrowings, to fund purchases of property and equipment, working capital, acquisitions and debt repayments. Actual debt repayments may include purchases of our outstanding indebtedness in the secondary market or otherwise. We believe that our current cash balances, cash from operating activities and funds available under our Revolver will provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our anticipated capital requirements and maturing obligations as they come due. At March31, 2017 , the Company had negative working capital which was driven by purchases of property and equipment and landfill construction and development during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as well as the use of our cash to fund acquisitions. At December 31, 2016, we had negative working capital which was driven by repayments on the Term Loan B and cash used for initial public offering costs. The Company has more than adequate availability on its Revolver to fund short term working capital requirements. Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents and Debt Obligations The table below presents a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and debt balances (in millions): 28 Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following table sets forth for the periods indicated a summary of our cash flows (in millions): Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities We generated $95.3 of cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared with $54.0 during the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The variance was primarily due to the following: During the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company entered into an Asset Transfer and Liability Assumption Agreement with BFI Waste Systems of North America, LLC. The Company received a cash payment of $24.0 which was recorded as an operating cash flow. In exchange for this payment, the Company assumed certain post-closure liabilities of a closed portion of a landfill and became responsible for expenditures related to a gas infrastructure system. The assumed post-closure liabilities and expenditures related to the gas infrastructure system approximate the amount of the cash payment. The payments related to the assumed post-closure liabilities and expenditures related to the gas infrastructure system will be made in future periods; A decrease in our net loss by $7.3 due to improved operating results; A larger decrease in accounts receivable by $5.3 due to increased emphasis on collection activities at our shared service center; A decrease in the fair value of derivative instruments of $0.8 compared to an increase of $4.1 in the prior year period. This is primarily due to gains related to fuel derivatives in the prior year period. Cash flows from operating activities are used to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, interest payments and debt. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities We used $109.2 of cash in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared with $39.7 during the three months ended March 31, 2016 , an increase of $69.5 . The variance was primarily due to the following: An increase of $66.3 in cash expenditures used to fund acquisitions; Higher cash expenditures of $3.4 used to fund the purchase of property and equipment and landfill construction and development. Cash Flows Provided By (Used In) Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash provided by financing activities was $14.4 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $14.4 during the three months ended March 31, 2016 , an increase of $28.8 . The variance was primarily due to the following: An increase in net borrowings on debt instruments of $17.5 due to proceeds needed to fund acquisitions; A decrease in capital returned to the former parent of $9.5. Senior Secured Credit Facilities On November10, 2016, we entered into an Amended and Restated Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Agreement") by and among the Company, the guarantors party thereto, the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders") and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent (respectively, the "Administrative Agent" and the "Collateral Agent"), pursuant to which the Credit Agreement, by and among the Company, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent, among others, dated as of October9, 2012 (as amended and restated in accordance with the Amended and Restated Agreement) was amended and restated. 29 The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $1.5 billion Term Loan B facility maturing 2023, and a $300.0 Revolver maturing 2021 (together, our "Senior Secured Credit Facilities"). The Revolver allows for up to $100.0 million of letters of credit outstanding. At the Company's option, borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement will bear interest at an alternate base rate or adjusted LIBOR rate in each case plus an applicable margin. The alternate base rate is defined as the greater of the prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus 100 basis points. The LIBOR base rate is subject to a 0.75% floor. In the case of the Term Loan B, the applicable margin is 1.75% per annum for ABR Loans and 2.75% per annum for Eurodollar Loans. In the case of the Revolver, the applicable margin is 1.75% per annum for ABR Loans and 2.75% per annum for Eurodollar Loans if our total net leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 4.00:1.00. If our total net leverage ratio is less than 4.00:1.00, the applicable margin on the Revolver is 1.25% per annum for ABR Loans and 2.25% per annum for Eurodollar Loans. Obligations under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries (subject to certain exceptions) and are secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all our personal property assets, and certain real property assets, including all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our domestic subsidiaries (in each cases, subject to certain limited exceptions). Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement may be prepaid at any time without premium. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains usual and customary representations and warranties, and usual and customary affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on liens, additional indebtedness, investments, restricted payments, asset sales, mergers, affiliate transactions and other customary limitations, as well as a total net leverage ratio financial covenant (for the benefit of lenders under the Revolver only). The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also contains usual and customary events of default, including non-payment of principal, interest, fees and other amounts, material breach of a representation or warranty, nonperformance of covenants and obligations, default on other material debt, bankruptcy or insolvency, material judgments, incurrence of certain material ERISA liabilities, impairment of loan documentation or security and change of control. Compliance with these covenants is a condition to any incremental borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and failure to meet these covenants would enable the lenders to require repayment of any outstanding loans (which would adversely affect our liquidity). The Term Loan B has principal payments due quarterly of $3.75 with mandatory prepayments due to the extent net cash proceeds from the sale of assets exceed $25.0 in any fiscal year and are not reinvested in the business within 365 days from the date of sale, upon notification of our intent to take such action or in accordance with Excess Cash Flow, as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. Further prepayments are due when there is Excess Cash Flow, as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. Borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities can be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2017 and December31, 2016, we had $22.0 and $0.0 in borrowings outstanding under our Revolver, respectively. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had an aggregate of approximately $42.1 and $42.1 of letters of credit outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, respectively. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had remaining capacity under our Revolver of $235.9 and $257.9, respectively. As of March 31, 2017, we were in compliance with the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants will be highly dependent on our results of operations and, to the extent necessary, our ability to implement remedial measures such as reductions in operating costs. The Revolver has an annual commitment fee equal to 0.50% per annumif the total net leverage ratio is greater than 4.00:1.00, orif otherwise, 0.375% per annum. The amount of commitment fees for 2016, 2015 and 2014 were not significant. We are subject to a maximum total net leverage ratio of 6.75:1.00. The actual total net leverage ratio at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was 4.71:1.00 and 4.76:1.00, respectively. 5.625% Senior Notes due 2024 On November10, 2016, we closed a 144A offering (the "Notes Offering") exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), of $425.0 aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2024 (the "Notes"). We issued the Notes under an indenture dated November10, 2016 (the "Indenture") among the Company, the guarantors party thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Notes bear interest at the rate of 5.625%per year. Interest on the Notes is payable on May15 and November 15 of each year, beginning on May15, 2017. The 30 Notes mature on November15, 2024. Before November15, 2019, we may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. At any time on or after November15, 2019, we may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at the applicable redemption prices set forth in the Indenture, plus accrued interest. In addition, before November15, 2019, we may, from time to time, redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 105.625% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. The redemption prices set forth in the indenture for the twelve month periods beginning on November 15 of the years indicated below are as follows: The Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional debt or issue certain preferred stock; pay dividends (subject to certain exceptions) or make certain redemptions, repurchases or distributions or make certain other restricted payments or investments; create liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; transfer and sell assets; and create restrictions on dividends or other payments by our restricted subsidiaries. Certain covenants will cease to apply to the Notes for so long as the Notes have investment grade ratings. The Notes will be unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by all of our current and future U.S. subsidiaries that guarantee the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of March31, 2017, we were in compliance with the covenants under the Indenture. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 , we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance instruments and operating leases, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. Seasonality We expect our operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring in the East and Midwest segments because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in these regions of the U.S. In addition, some of our operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items As of March31, 2017 , we have $10.2 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of other long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. Financial Assurance We must provide financial assurance to governmental agencies and a variety of other entities under applicable environmental regulations relating to our landfill operations for capping, closure and post-closure costs, and related to our performance under certain collection, landfill and transfer station contracts. We satisfy these financial assurance requirements by providing surety bonds and letters of credit. The amount of the financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs is determined by applicable state environmental regulations. The financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs may be associated with a portion of the landfill or the entire landfill. Generally, states require a third-party engineering specialist to determine the estimated capping, closure and post-closure costs that are used to determine the required amount of financial assurance for a landfill. The amount of financial assurance required can, and generally will, differ from the 31 obligation determined and recorded under U.S. GAAP. The amount of the financial assurance requirements related to contract performance varies by contract. Additionally, we must provide financial assurance for our insurance program and collateral for certain performance obligations. We do not expect a material increase in financial assurance requirements in the foreseeable future, although the mix of financial assurance instruments may change. These financial instruments are issued in the normal course of business and are not considered company indebtedness. Because we currently have no liability for these financial assurance instruments, they are not reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. However, we record capping, closure and post-closure liabilities and self-insurance liabilities as they are incurred. The underlying obligations of the financial assurance instruments, in excess of those already reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets, would be recorded if it is probable that we would be unable to fulfill our related obligations. We do not expect this to occur. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. However, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. Critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require management's most subjective judgments. A summary of significant accounting policies is disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our critical accounting policies are further described under the caption "Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recently Issued and Proposed Accounting Standards For a description of new accounting standards that may affect us, see Note 2, Basis of Presentation, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part 1 of this Form 10-Q.Item 1. Financial Statements Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 1. Business Operations Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries, as a consolidated entity, is a nonhazardous solid waste services company providing collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services to customers in the South, Midwest and Eastern regions of the United States. The Company manages and evaluates its principal operations through three reportable operating segments on a regional basis. Those operating segments are the South, East and Midwest regions which provide collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services. Additional information related to segments can be found in Note 9. Eight acquisitions were completed during the six months ended June 30, 2017 for aggregate consideration consisting of a cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $84.3 and notes payable of $1.6 subject to net working capital adjustments and other commitments, which are expected to be completed within approximately one year. The Company assumed approximately $3.9 in closure and post-closure liabilities associated with the acquisitions. Six acquisitions were completed during the six months ended June 30, 2016 for a cash purchase price of $4.9 and notes payable of $0.3 . The results of operations of each acquisition are included in the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. The Company is still reviewing information surrounding property and equipment, intangible assets, current liabilities and long-term liabilities related to acquisitions completed subsequent to June 30, 2016. See Note 11, Acquisitions, to the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further details on acquisitions completed during the six months ended June 30, 2017 . During the six months ended June 30, 2017 , the Company entered into an Asset Transfer and Liability Assumption Agreement with BFI Waste Systems of North America, LLC. The Company received a cash payment of $24.0 which was recorded as an operating cash flow. In exchange for this payment, the Company assumed certain post-closure liabilities of a closed portion of a landfill and became responsible for expenditures related to a gas infrastructure system. The assumed post-closure liabilities and expenditures related to the gas infrastructure system approximate the amount of the cash payment. The payments related to the assumed post-closure liabilities and expenditures related to the gas infrastructure system will be made in future periods. During the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , the Company divested of its collection services operation in Charlotte, North Carolina for consideration received of $8.7 . A $1.4 gain on the sale of that business is included in the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 . 2. Basis of Presentation The Company's condensed consolidated financial statements include its wholly-owned subsidiaries and their respective subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements as of June30, 2017 and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 are unaudited. In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, which, unless otherwise disclosed, are of a normal recurring nature, necessary for a fair statement of the balance sheet, results of operations, comprehensive (loss) income, cash flows, and changes in equity for the periods presented. The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the entire year. The financial statements presented herein should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . In conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Company uses estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in these condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that it uses is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In preparing the Company's financial statements, the more subjective areas that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to: accounting for long-lived assets, including recoverability; landfill development costs, final capping, closure and post-closure costs; valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets; liabilities for potential litigation; claims and assessments; liabilities for environmental remediation; stock compensation; accounting for goodwill and intangible asset impairments; deferred taxes; uncertain tax positions; self-insurance reserves; and estimates of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that the Company uses in preparation of its financial statements. Intangible Asset Impairment The Company has collection operations in South Carolina which operate in a competitor-owned disposal market that does not align with the Company's long-term market strategy of vertically integrated operations with Company-owned disposal sites or marketplace neutral disposal sites. During April of 2017, changes in facts and circumstances led the Company to evaluate the long-term market for South Carolina collection operations and re-evaluate the expected cash flows provided by this market. The Company determined it appropriate to impair certain intangible assets that were recorded as part of the purchase accounting when these entities were acquired. Based on the Company's evaluation, the Company recorded an intangible asset impairment of $13.0 during the second quarter of 2017. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2017-04 which simplifies the goodwill impairment test by eliminating step 2 of the quantitative assessment. Under the guidance, when a quantitative assessment is required, an entity will perform a goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge will be measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Additionally, entities should consider income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. This amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2020 and early adoption of the standard is permitted. The Company's early adoption on January 1, 2017 did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01 which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. The amendments provide a screen to determine when a set of assets and activities is not a business. If the screen is not met, the amendments require further consideration of inputs, substantive processes and outputs to determine whether the transaction is an acquisition of a business. The new update is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 with early adoption permitted. The Company's early adoption on January 1, 2017 did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as a right-of-use asset with a corresponding lease liability, and lessors to recognize a net lease investment. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures will also be required to increase transparency and comparability among organizations. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of the standard is permitted, however; the Company does not expect to early adopt the ASU. Lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented. While the Company is still assessing the impact of this standard, it does not believe this standard will have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance. The new standard requires that a company recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Companies will need to use more judgment and estimates than under the guidance currently in effect, including estimating the amount of variable revenue to recognize over each identified performance obligation. Additional disclosures will be required to help users of financial statements understand the nature, amount and timing of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts. This standard will become effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter 2018 and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. The Company anticipates adopting the standard as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. To assess the impact of the standard, the Company is using internal resources to lead the implementation efforts. The Company's internal resources reviewed the amended guidance, attended training classes and consulted with other accounting professionals to assist with interpretation of the amended guidance. The Company completed an impact assessment of the guidance changes affecting the Company and developed an approach to address each change. The Company completed a review of its municipal contracts and documented key contract terms for areas impacted by the amended guidance. The Company is in the process of sampling additional contracts based on specifically identified contract characteristics that could be accounted for differently under the amended guidance. Changes to processes and internal controls are being identified to meet the standard's reporting and disclosure requirements. The Company continues to work through an analysis of the increased disclosures required by the new guidance. The Company has determined that sales commissions previously recorded as expense in the income statement when earned will be recorded as a contract asset under the amended guidance. The Company is in process of determining the appropriate amortization period for these sales commissions. The Company is still in the process of determining if the new standard will impact the timing of revenue recognition. 3. Landfill Liabilities Liabilities for final closure and post-closure costs for the year ended December31, 2016 and for the six months ended June30, 2017 are shown in the table below: 4. Loss Per Share The following table sets forth the computation of basic loss per share and loss per share, assuming dilution: Basic net loss per share is based on the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding for each of the periods presented. Net loss per share, assuming dilution, is based on the weighted-average number of shares of common stock equivalents outstanding adjusted for the effects of common stock that may be issued as a result of potentially dilutive instruments. The Company's potentially dilutive instruments are made up of equity awards, which include stock options, restricted stock awards, and performance stock awards. 10 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) Pursuant to the FASB's Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 260, Earnings Per Share, the Company includes additional shares in the computation of net income per share, assuming dilution. The additional shares that would be included in diluted net income per share would represent the number of shares that would be issued if all of the above potentially dilutive instruments were converted into common stock. When calculating diluted net income per share, the ASC requires the Company to include the potential shares that would be outstanding if all outstanding stock options were exercised. This number is different from outstanding stock options because it is offset by shares the Company could repurchase using the proceeds from these hypothetical exercises to obtain the common stock equivalent. Approximately 4.6 million and 0.4 million of outstanding stock awards were excluded from the diluted (loss) income per share calculation for the three months ended June30, 2017 and June30, 2016 , respectively, because their effect was antidilutive. Approximately 4.2 million and 2.2 million of outstanding stock awards were excluded from the diluted loss per share calculation for the six months ended June30, 2017 and June30, 2016 , respectively, because their effect was antidilutive. 5. Debt The following table summarizes the major components of debt at each balance sheet date and provides the maturities and interest rate ranges of each major category of debt: All borrowings under the Term Loan B and the Revolver are guaranteed by each of the Company's current and future U.S. subsidiaries (which also guarantee the Senior Notes), subject to certain agreed-upon exemptions. All guarantors are jointly and severally and fully and unconditionally liable. There are no significant restrictions on the Company or any guarantor to obtain funds from its subsidiaries by dividend or loan. Revolver and Letter of Credit Facilities As of June30, 2017 , the Company had an aggregate committed capacity of $300.0 , of which $100.0 was available for letters of credit under its credit facilities. The Company's Revolver is its primary source of letter of credit capacity and expires in 2021. As of June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had $5.0 and $0.0 of borrowings outstanding on the Revolver, respectively. As of June30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company had an aggregate of $40.9 and $42.1 , respectively, of letters of credit outstanding under its credit facilities. 11 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 6. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities The following table summarizes the fair values of derivative instruments recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets: The Company has not offset fair value of assets and liabilities recognized for its derivative instruments. Interest Rate Caps In December 2012, the Company entered into four interest rate cap agreements to hedge the risk of a rise in interest rates and associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The interest rate caps expired in various tranches through fiscal 2016. The Company recorded a premium of $5.0 in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and amortized the premium to interest expense based upon decreases in the time value of the caps. Amortization expense was approximately $0.0 and $0.2 for the three and six months ending June 30, 2016 , respectively. In May 2016, the Company entered into three interest rate cap agreements as economic hedges against the risk of a rise in interest rates and the associated cash flows on its variable rate debt. The Company is paying the $5.5 premium of the caps equally over eleven quarters beginning on March 31, 2017. The Company elected not to apply hedge accounting to these interest rate caps therefore changes in the fair value of the interest rate caps are recorded in other (expense) income, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded a loss of $2.0 and $2.8 for the three months ending June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively and $3.3 and $2.8 for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Of the recorded losses, $0.5 and $1.0 for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , respectively, were realized losses. The notional value of the contracts aggregated were $800.0 as of June30, 2017 and will remain constant through maturity in September 2019. Commodity Futures Contracts Prior to fiscal 2017, the company utilized fuel derivative instruments (commodity futures contracts) as economic hedges of the risk that fuel prices would fluctuate. The Company has used financial derivative instruments for both short-term and long-term time frames and utilized fixed price swap agreements to manage the identified risk. The Company does not currently have plans to enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. All fuel derivative contracts entered into by the Company expired prior to fiscal 2017. Changes in the fair value and settlements of the fuel derivative instruments were recorded in other (expense) income, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded income of $2.1 and $1.5 , respectively, for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 . 7. Income Taxes The Company's effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was 33.3% and 90.5% , respectively. The Company evaluates its effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjusts it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2017 is materially consistent with the federal statutory rate of 35% . The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses included in stock-based compensation. These items had a greater impact on the Company's effective income tax rate during the three months ended June 30, 2016 than in comparable prior periods due to the Company's pre-tax earnings being near break-even for the three months ended June 30, 2016. The Company's effective income tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was 40.0% and 26.7% , respectively. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income tax benefit for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily due to the favorable impact of recorded valuation allowance and the favorable 12 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) impact of state and local taxes. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible expenses and the unfavorable impact of a change in recorded valuation allowance. As of June30, 2017 , the Company had $10.5 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term "Other liabilities" in the condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. The Company is not able to reasonably estimate when it would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but the Company does not believe that the ultimate settlement of its obligations will materially affect its liquidity. 8. Commitments and Contingencies Financial Instruments The Company has obtained letters of credit, performance bonds and insurance policies for the performance of landfill final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, environmental remediation, and other obligations. Letters of credit are supported by the Company's Revolver (Note 5). The Company does not expect that any claims against or draws on these instruments would have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company has not experienced any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining the required financial assurance instruments for its current operations. In an ongoing effort to mitigate risks of future cost increases and reductions in available capacity, the Company continues to evaluate various options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance. Insurance The Company carries insurance coverage for protection of its assets and operations from certain risks including automobile liability, general liability, real and personal property, workers' compensation, directors and officers liability, pollution, legal liability and other coverages the Company believes are customary to the industry. The Company's exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally limited to the per incident deductible, or self-insured retention, under the related insurance policy. Its exposure, however, could increase if its insurers are unable to meet their commitments on a timely basis. The Company has retained a significant portion of the risks related to its automobile, general liability, workers' compensation and health claims programs. For its self-insured retentions, the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, is based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from the Company's assumptions used. The Company does not expect the impact of any known casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Litigation and Other Matters In February 2009, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries were named as defendants in a purported class action suit in the Circuit Court of Macon County, Alabama. Similar class action complaints were brought against the Company and certain of its subsidiaries in 2011 in Duval County, Florida and in 2013 in Quitman County, Georgia and Barbour County, Alabama, and in 2014 in Chester County, Pennsylvania. The 2013 Georgia complaint was dismissed in March 2014. In late 2015 in Gwinnett County, Georgia, another purported class action suit was filed. The plaintiffs in those cases primarily allege that the defendants charged improper fees (fuel, administrative and environmental fees) that were in breach of the plaintiffs' service agreements with the Company and seek damages in an unspecified amount. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses against these purported class actions, which it will vigorously pursue. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of these cases, the unknown size of any potential class, and legal and factual issues in dispute, the outcome of these cases cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. In November 2014, the Attorney General of the State of Vermont filed a complaint against the Company relating to the Moretown, Vermont landfill regarding alleged odor and other environmental-related noncompliances with environmental laws and regulations and environmental permits. In the complaint, the Attorney General requested that the State of Vermont Superior Court find the Company liable for the alleged noncompliances, issue related civil penalties, and order the Company to reimburse the State of Vermont for enforcement costs. While the complaint does not specify a monetary penalty, prior 13 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) correspondence from the Attorney General of the State of Vermont indicates that it may seek a penalty relating to the alleged noncompliances that is not expected to be material. Given the inherent uncertainties of litigation, including the early stage of this case, the outcome cannot be predicted and a range of loss, if any, cannot currently be estimated. In February 2017, a waste slide occurred in one cell at the Company's Greentree Landfill in Kersey, Pennsylvania.During the six months ended June30, 2017 , the Company recorded a charge in operating expenses of $5.4 , representing the Company's current estimate of probable costs to relocate displaced material and restore infrastructure, net of estimated insurance recoveries; this amount could increase or decrease as a result of actual costs incurred to completion and insurance recoveries. The Company has incurred $2.4 and $3.9 for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , respectively. The Company is subject to various other proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims and regulatory investigations arising in the ordinary course of its business. Many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. Actions filed against the Company include commercial, customer, and employment-related claims. The plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. These actions are in various procedural stages, and some are covered in part by insurance. Although the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome and the range of loss cannot be currently estimated, the Company does not believe that the eventual outcome of any such action could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Multiemployer Defined Benefit Pension Plans Approximately 12.7% of the Company's workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements with various local unions across its operating regions. As a result of some of these agreements, certain of the Company's subsidiaries are participating employers in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer, defined benefit pension plans for the affected employees. In connection with its ongoing renegotiation of various collective bargaining agreements, the Company may discuss and negotiate for the complete or partial withdrawal from one or more of these pension plans. A complete or partial withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan may also occur if employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement vote to decertify a union from continuing to represent them. The Company is not aware of any such actions in connection with continuing operations. As a result of certain discontinued operations, the Company is potentially exposed to certain withdrawal liabilities. The Company does not believe that any future withdrawals, individually or in the aggregate, from the multiemployer plans to which it contributes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or liquidity. However, such withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations for a particular reporting period, depending on the number of employees withdrawn in any future period and the financial condition of the multiemployer plan(s) at the time of such withdrawal(s). Tax Matters The Company has open tax years dating back to 2000 in certain jurisdictions. Prior to the acquisition, MW Star Holdings, Corp. (Veolia ES Solid Waste division) was part of a consolidated group and is still subject to IRS and state examinations dating back to 2004. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition of Veolia ES Solid Waste, Inc., the Company is entitled to certain indemnifications for Veolia ES Solid Waste Division's pre-acquisition tax liabilities. The Company maintains a liability for uncertain tax positions, the balance of which management believes is adequate. Results of audit assessments by taxing authorities are not currently expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. 9. Segment and Related Information The Company manages and evaluates its operations primarily through its South, East and Midwest regional segments. These three groups are presented below as the Company's reportable segments. The Company's three geographic operating segments provide collection, transfer, disposal and recycling services. The Company serves residential, commercial and industrial, and municipal customers throughout its operating segments. As disclosed in the Company's 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company reorganized its internal structure during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 by moving two business units from the East segment to the South segment. Segment revenue, operating income and depreciation and amortization for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 have been reclassified to reflect these changes to the Company's operating segments. As a result, for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, $5.7 of segment revenue was reclassified from the East to the South, $1.0 of operating income was reclassified from the East to the South and $0.3 of depreciation and amortization was reclassified from the East to the South. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, $11.1 of segment revenue was reclassified from the East to the South, $1.8 14 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) of operating income was reclassified from the East to the South and $0.8 of depreciation and amortization was reclassified from the East to the South. Revenues, operating income/(loss) and depreciation and amortization for our reportable segments for the periods indicated, are shown in the following tables: Fluctuations in the Company's operating results may be caused by many factors, including period-to-period changes in the relative contribution of revenue by each line of business and operating segment and by general economic conditions. In addition, its revenues and income from operations typically reflect seasonal patterns. The Company expects its operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring in the East and Midwest segments because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in these regions of the United States. In addition, some of the Company's operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as hurricanes that most often impact the South region, can increase the Company's revenues in the areas affected. While weather-related and other 15 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) occurrences can boost revenues through additional work, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions, including severe winter storms, may result in the temporary suspension of the Company's operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. No such events have occurred during the periods presented. 10. Fair Value Measurements Assets and Liabilities Accounted for at Fair Value In measuring fair values of assets and liabilities, the Company uses valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs (Level 1) and minimize the use of unobservable inputs (Level 3). The Company also uses market data or assumptions that it believes market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including assumptions about risk when appropriate. The carrying value for certain of the Company's financial instruments approximate fair value because of their short-term nature. The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis include the following: The fair value of the interest rate caps are determined using standard option valuation models with assumptions about interest rates based on those observed in underlying markets (Level 2 in fair value hierarchy). Fair Value of Debt The fair value of the Company's debt (Level 2) is estimated using indirectly observable market inputs, except for the Revolver for which cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of the interest rate. Although the Company has determined the estimated fair value amounts using quoted market prices, considerable judgment is required in interpreting the information and in developing the estimated fair values. Therefore, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company, or holders of the instruments, could realize in a current market exchange. The fair value estimates are based on information available as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 , respectively. 16 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) The estimated fair value of the Company's debt is as follows: The carrying value of the Company's debt at June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 was $1,897.5 and $1,905.0 , respectively. 11. Acquisitions Eight acquisitions were completed during the six months ended June 30, 2017 for aggregate consideration consisting of a cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $84.3 and notes payable of $1.6 , subject to net working capital adjustments and other commitments, which are expected to be completed within approximately one year. The goodwill recognized of $25.4 represents long-term growth potential and the synergies from the combined operations of the acquired entities and the Company. The Company is still reviewing information surrounding property and equipment, intangible assets, current liabilities and long-term liabilities resulting from the acquisitions, which may result in changes to the Company's preliminary purchase price allocation during subsequent periods. Transaction costs related to these acquisitions were not significant for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 . The results of operations of each acquisition are included in the consolidated statements of operations of the Company subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired, net of cash acquired, year to date as of: The following table presents the allocation of the purchase price to other intangible assets: The amount of goodwill recorded related to these acquisitions for the South Segment, East Segment, and Midwest Segment was $0.8 , $24.6 , and $0.0 , respectively. The amount of goodwill deductible for tax purposes related to these acquisitions is $0.9 . The weighted average life of other intangible assets in years is as follows: 17 Advanced Disposal Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions, except share data) 12. Subsequent Events Acquisitions During July 2017, the Company completed two acquisitions of waste collection companies. The Company paid consideration of $20.0 for these acquisitions. The Company has not yet completed its initial purchase price allocation. Asset Purchase On May 1, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to lease a 22,500 square foot building and related improvements near Orlando, FL. In June 2017, the Lessor communicated their intention to sell the facility. The Company has exercised its right of first offer pursuant to the lease agreement and is in process of finalizing the agreement to purchase the leased assets for cash consideration of $8.5 . 18 Item2. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included under Item1. In addition, you should refer to our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and related Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. All dollar amounts are presented in millions, unless otherwise stated. Overview We are a leading integrated provider of non-hazardous solid waste collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services, operating primarily in secondary markets or under exclusive arrangements. We have a presence in 16 states across the Midwest, South and East regions of the United States, serving approximately 2.8 million residential and over 200,000 commercial and industrial (C&I) customers through our extensive network of 91 collection operations, 73 transfer stations, 22 owned or operated recycling facilities and 40 owned or operated landfills. We operate 5 landfill gas and renewable energy projects and have an additional 12 third party owned landfill gas and renewable energy projects. We also have post-closure responsibility for 5 closed landfills. We seek to drive financial performance in markets in which we own or operate a landfill or in certain disposal-neutral markets, where the landfill is owned by our municipal customer. In markets in which we own or operate a landfill, we aim to create and maintain vertically integrated operations through which we manage a majority of our customers' waste from the point of collection through the point of disposal, a process we refer to as internalization. By internalizing a majority of the waste in these markets, we are able to deliver high quality customer service while also ensuring a stable revenue stream and maximizing profitability and cash flow from operations. In disposal-neutral markets, we focus selectively on opportunities where we can negotiate exclusive arrangements with our municipal customers, facilitating highly efficient and profitable collection operations with lower capital requirements. Geographically, we focus our business principally in secondary, or less densely populated non-urban, markets where the presence of large national providers is generally more limited. We also compete selectively in primary, or densely populated urban, markets where we can capitalize on opportunities for vertical integration through our high-quality transfer and disposal infrastructure and where we can benefit from highly efficient collection route density. We maintain an attractive mix of revenue from varying sources, including residential collections, C&I collections, landfill gas and special waste streams, and fees charged to third parties for disposal in our network of transfer stations and landfills. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the periods indicated our consolidated results of operations and the percentage relationship that certain items from our condensed consolidated financial statements bear to revenue (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). 19 Three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to 2016 Operating income decreased $12.0 or 33.2% to $24.1 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The decrease was primarily the result of the following: As discussed in Note 2 to the unaudited consolidated financial statements, the Company recorded an intangible asset impairment charge of$13.0during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Operating income, net of the $13.0 million impairment described above, increased $1.0 or 2.8% to $37.1 for the three months ended June 30, 2017. The increase was primarily the result of the following: An increase in service revenues of $24.9 as detailed further in the "Revenue" section below. The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was partially offset by the following: An increase in operating costs of $21.1 which includes higher disposal and transportation costs of $8.5 to support the increase in our service revenue, an increase in salary and wage expense of $4.4 due to merit increases, acquisition activity, higher healthcare costs and higher workers' compensation cost, an increase in fuel expense of $2.1 due to the increase in diesel fuel prices, an increase in maintenance costs for landfill gas control, leachate and sulfate treatment of $1.8, an increase in repairs and maintenance expense of $1.6 due to acquisition activity, an increase in sales and marketing expense of $1.2 due to hiring additional sales representatives and an increase in insurance expenses of $0.6 due to higher automobile and property insurance costs. An increase in depreciation and amortization of $2.9 as a result of acquisition activity. Six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to 2016 Operating income decreased $13.7 or 27.9% to $35.4 for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Operating income, net of the $13.0 intangible asset impairment and $5.4 of costs associated with the Greentree landfill waste slide, increased $4.7 or 9.6% to $53.8 for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The increase was primarily the result of the following: An increase in service revenues of $38.5 as detailed further in the "Revenue" section below. The increase for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was partially offset by the following: An increase in operating costs of $31.4, net of the $5.4 in costs associated with the Greentree landfill waste slide, which includes higher disposal and transportation costs of $10.2 to support the increase in our service revenue, an increase in salary and wage expense of $6.7 due to merit increases, acquisition activity, higher healthcare costs and higher workers' compensation cost, an increase in fuel expense of $5.7 due to the increase in diesel fuel prices, an increase in maintenance costs for landfill gas control, leachate and sulfate treatment of $2.7, an increase in repairs and maintenance expense of $2.7 due to acquisition activity, an increase in sales and marketing expense of $1.7 due to hiring additional sales representatives and an increase in insurance expenses of $1.3 due to higher automobile and property insurance costs; An increase in depreciation and amortization of $3.5 as a result of acquisition activity. Revenue Through our subsidiaries, we generate revenue primarily by providing collection and disposal services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. Our remaining revenue is generated from recycling, fuel and environmental fees, landfill gas-to-energy operations and other ancillary revenue-generating activities. Revenues from our collection operations consist of fees we receive from municipal, subscription, residential and C&I customers and are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the recycling, transfer station or disposal facilities and our disposal costs. Standard C&I service agreements are typically three to five years, and we have historically maintained strong relationships with our C&I customers. Our municipal customer relationships are generally supported by exclusive contracts ranging from three to ten years in initial duration with subsequent renewal periods. Certain municipal contracts have annual price escalation clauses that are tied to changes in an underlying base index such as the consumer price index (CPI). We provide commercial front load and temporary and permanent rolloff service 20 offerings to our commercial customers. While the majority of our rolloff services are provided to customers under long-term service agreements, we generally do not enter into contracts with our temporary rolloff customers due to the relatively short-term nature of most construction and demolition (C&D) projects. Our transfer stations and landfills generate revenue from disposal or tipping fees. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of fees which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue consists of disposal or tipping fees and proceeds from the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The amounts charged for collection, disposal, and recycling services may include fuel fees and environmental fees. Fuel fees and environmental fees are not designed to be specific to the direct costs and expenses to service an individual customer's account, but rather are designed to address and to help recover changes in our overall cost structure and to achieve an operating margin acceptable to us. Other revenue is comprised of ancillary revenue-generating activities, such as trucking, landfill gas-to-energy operations at municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills, management of third-party owned landfills, customer service charges relating to overdue payments and customer administrative fees relating to customers who request paper copies of invoices rather than opting for electronic invoices. The following table sets forth our consolidated revenues by line of business for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of total service revenues). The following table reflects changes in components of our revenue, as a percentage of total revenue, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Average yield is defined as aggregate contribution of price changes excluding recycled commodities and fuel fee revenue. During the three months ended June 30, 2017, we experienced the following changes in components of our revenue as compared to the same period in fiscal 2016: 21 Average yield increased revenue by 1.4% driven by positive open market price yield in our commercial and roll-off collection lines of business along with higher price yield in our municipal residential business due to the positive impact of higher CPI contract resets but offset somewhat from lower C&D pricing; Recycling revenue increased revenue by 1.2% due to an increase in recycling commodity prices; Fuel fee revenue increased revenue by 0.5%. These fees fluctuate in response to changes in prices for diesel fuel on which the surcharge is based and, consequently, any increase in fuel prices results in an increase in our revenue. Our fuel surcharge fees reset on a monthly basis therefore an increase in our fuel fee revenue is delayed in comparison to the increase in our fuel expense when diesel fuel prices increase; Organic volume increased revenue by 0.6% primarily due to an increase in landfill disposal volumes and an increase in third party trucking revenue due to special waste project activity. Volumes in the commercial and rolloff collection business were flat with residential volume decreasing as we continue to cycle through certain municipal contract losses and contract losses from our business rationalization strategy; Acquisitions increased revenue by 3.4% due to our execution of acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy; Divestitures decreased revenue by 0.1% due to our strategic decisions to divest low margin businesses in fiscal 2016. During the six months ended June 30, 2017, we experienced the following changes in components of our revenue as compared to the same period in fiscal 2016: Average yield increased revenue by 2.0% as we achieved positive open market price yield in our collection and disposal operations and higher price yield in our municipal residential business due to the positive impact of higher CPI contract resets. Average yield in our disposal business increased with price growth for MSW and special waste volumes partially offset by lower prices for C&D volumes due in part to mix changes; Recycling revenue increased revenue by 1.3% due to an increase in recycling commodity prices; Fuel fee revenue increased revenue by 0.4%. These fees fluctuate in response to changes in prices for diesel fuel on which the surcharge is based and, consequently, any increase in fuel prices results in an increase in our revenue. Our fuel surcharge fees reset on a monthly basis therefore an increase in our fuel fee revenue is delayed in comparison to the increase in our fuel expense when diesel fuel prices increase; Organic volume decreased revenue by 0.5% primarily due to a decrease in residential collection volumes as we continue to cycle through certain municipal contract losses and contract losses from our business rationalization strategy and a reduction in shale related volumes. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in C&D disposal volumes and an increase in third party trucking revenue due to special waste project activity; Acquisitions increased revenue by 2.6% due to our execution of acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy; Divestitures decreased revenue by 0.2% due to our strategic decisions to divest low margin businesses in fiscal 2016. Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our operating expenses (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): 22 Our operating expenses include the following: Labor and related benefits, which consist of salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits, incentive compensation and payroll taxes; Transfer and disposal costs which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations as well as transportation and subcontractor costs (which include costs for independent haulers who transport waste from transfer stations to our disposal facilities and costs for local operators who provide waste handling services associated with markets outside our standard operating areas); Maintenance and repairs expenses which include labor, maintenance and repairs to our vehicles, equipment and containers; Fuel costs which include the direct cost of fuel used by our vehicles, net of fuel tax credits; Franchise fees and taxes which consist of municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; Risk management expenses which include casualty insurance premiums, claims payments, estimates for claims incurred but not reported and casualty losses; Other expenses which include expenses such as facility operating costs, equipment rent, leachate and sulfate treatment and disposal, and other landfill maintenance costs; Accretion expense related to landfill capping, closure and post-closure is included in operating expenses in our condensed consolidated statement of operations, but, it is excluded from the table below (refer to "Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations" for a detailed discussion of the changes in amounts). The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, excluding accretion expense on our landfill retirement obligations (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): The cost categories shown above may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. Thus, you should exercise caution when comparing our operating expenses by cost component to that of other companies. Three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to 2016 Operating expenses increased by $20.6 or 9.5% to $236.4 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 from $215.8 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The change reflects the following: 23 Labor and related benefits increased by $4.5 or 6.2% to $77.6 which was primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity, higher health care costs due to an increase in the severity and frequency of medical claims and higher workers' compensation costs due to less favorable actuarial development; Transfer and disposal costs increased by $6.1 or 12.7% to $54.1 as a result of increased disposal volumes, acquisition activity, increased third party trucking costs, increased container weights and higher recycling rebates due to the increase in recycling commodity prices; Maintenance and repairs expense increased by $1.6 or 4.8% to $34.7 . The increase was driven by increased labor costs primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity and higher health care costs; Fuel costs increased $2.1 or 15.0% to $16.1 primarily resulting from increases in diesel fuel prices and the expiration of certain natural gas fuel excise tax credits as of December 31, 2016; Franchise fees and taxes increased $1.1 or 6.5% to $18.1 primarily due to changes in the mix of waste in the South segment; Risk management expense increased $0.8 or 11.6% to $7.7 primarily due to higher automobile and property insurance costs and less favorable actuarial development; Other operating costs increased $4.4 or 18.6% to $28.1 due to an increase in maintenance costs related to landfill gas control, leachate and sulfate treatment and increased costs to operate an asphalt plant associated with a recent acquisition. Six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to 2016 Operating expenses increased by $35.9 or 8.4% to $461.7 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 from $425.8 for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The change reflects the following: Labor and related benefits increased by $6.7 or 4.6% to $153.0 which was primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity, higher health care costs due to an increase in the severity and frequency of medical claims and higher workers' compensation costs; Transfer and disposal costs increased by $8.1 or 8.7% to $101.7 as a result of increased disposal volumes, acquisition activity, increased third party trucking costs, increased container weights and higher recycling rebates due to the increase in recycling commodity prices; Maintenance and repairs expense increased by $2.5 or 3.8% to $67.9. The increase was driven by increased labor costs primarily attributable to merit increases, acquisition activity and higher health care costs; Fuel costs increased $5.7 or 21.8% to $31.9 primarily resulting from increases in diesel fuel prices and the expiration of certain natural gas fuel excise tax credits as of December 31, 2016; Franchise fees and taxes increased $0.8 or 2.5% to $32.4 primarily due to changes in the mix of waste in the South segment; Risk management expense increased $1.5 or 9.8% to $16.8 primarily due to higher automobile and property insurance costs and less favorable actuarial development; Other operating costs increased $5.0 or 10.5% to $52.6 primarily due to an increase in maintenance costs related to a landfill gas control system and increased costs to operate an asphalt plant associated with a recent acquisition; We recorded $5.4 of costs, net of estimated insurance recoveries, associated with the Greentree landfill waste slide. Accretion of Landfill Retirement Obligations Accretion expense was $3.8 and $3.3 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase of $0.5 was primarily attributable to the assumption of post-closure responsibility at one of our landfills during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and the acquisition of a landfill during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Accretion expense was $7.4 and $6.5 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase of $0.9 was primarily attributable to the assumption of post-closure responsibility at one of our landfills during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and the acquisition of a landfill during the 24 first quarter of fiscal 2017. For a discussion of factors affecting capping obligations, see the critical accounting policies in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, legal and professional fees and other expenses. Salaries expenses include salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits and incentive compensation for corporate and field general management, field support functions, sales force, accounting and finance, legal, management information systems, and clerical and administrative departments. Other expenses include rent and office costs, fees for professional services provided by third parties, marketing, directors' and officers' insurance, general employee relocation, travel, entertainment and bank charges, but exclude any such amounts recorded as restructuring charges. The following table provides the components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): Three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to 2016 Our salaries expenses decreased by $0.2 or 0.8% to $25.5 primarily due to a reduction in bonus accruals of $1.4 and a decrease in stock based compensation expense of $0.8. Stock based compensation expense decreased as our annual stock options were issued during the first quarter in fiscal 2017 compared to the second quarter in fiscal 2016 and these options vest 20% on the date of grant resulting in 20% of stock compensation expense being recorded on the date of grant. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in wages and benefits of $2.1 primarily due to merit increases and higher severance expense. Legal and professional fees increased $0.4 or 17.4% to $2.7 primarily due to an increase in professional fees associated with internal projects. Other selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.2 or 10.7% to $12.4 primarily due to increased bad debt expense, increased software maintenance cost and increased bank processing charges. Six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to 2016 Our salaries expenses increased by $4.2 or 8.3% to $55.0 primarily attributable to a $3.0 increase in stock based compensation expense due to our compensation structure shifting more towards equity based compensation and the impact of initial public offering related awards and an increase in wages and benefits of $3.0 as a result of merit increases, higher severance expense and higher healthcare costs. These increases were partially offset by lower bonus accruals of $1.8. Legal and professional fees decreased $6.2 or 51.2% to $5.9 primarily due to $7.1 of expenses incurred during the six months ended June 30, 2016 related to the launch of the initial public offering process that was not completed that did not recur in the six months ended June 30, 2017. This decrease was partially offset by $0.7 of costs associated with being a public company. Other selling, general and administrative expenses increased $3.6 or 17.0% to $24.8 primarily due to increased bad debt expense, increased software maintenance cost, increased bank processing charges and various other costs. 25 Depreciation and Amortization The following table summarizes the components of depreciation and amortization expense by asset type (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue). For a detailed discussion of depreciation and amortization by asset type refer to the discussion included in the following two sections herein. Depreciation, Amortization and Depletion of Property and Equipment Depreciation, amortization and depletion expense includes depreciation of fixed assets over the estimated useful life of the assets using the straight-line method, and amortization and depletion of landfill airspace assets under the units-of-consumption method. Refer to the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of our accounting policies. The following table summarizes depreciation, amortization and depletion of property and equipment for the periods indicated (in millions and as a percentage of our revenue): Three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to 2016 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment increased $2.6 or 8.2% to $33.4 due mainly to acquisition activity. Landfill depletion and amortization increased $1.8 or 8.2% to $23.7 due to acquisition activity. Six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to 2016 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment increased $2.5 or 3.9% to $65.9 due mainly to acquisition activity. Landfill depletion and amortization increased $1.9 or 4.7% to $42.2 due to acquisition activity. Amortization of Other Intangible Assets Amortization of other intangible assets was $10.4 and $10.9 or as a percentage of revenue, 2.7% and 3.0% , for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in amortization expense is attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized partially offset by increased acquisition activity in the current year. Amortization of other intangible assets was $20.8 and $21.7 or as a percentage of revenue, 2.8% and 3.1%, for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, 26 respectively. The decrease in amortization expense is attributable to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized partially offset by increased acquisition activity in the current year. Acquisitions and Divestitures In the ordinary course of our business, we regularly evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities that further enhance our vertical integration strategy. We also regularly evaluate our current operations and consider divesting of those operations that do not provide us with an acceptable profit margin. We completed eight acquisitions during the six months ended June 30, 2017 for a cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $84.3 and notes payable of $1.6, subject to net working capital adjustments, which we expect to be completed within approximately one year. Six acquisitions were completed during the six months ended June 30, 2016 for a cash purchase price of $4.9 and notes payable of $0.3. The results of operations of each acquisition are included in our condensed consolidated statements of operations subsequent to the closing date of each acquisition. During the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , we divested of our collection services operation in Charlotte, North Carolina for consideration received of $8.7 . A $1.4 gain on the sale of that business is included in our statements of operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 . Intangible Asset Impairment The Company has collection operations in South Carolina which operated in a competitor-owned disposal market that does not align with the Company's long-term market strategy of vertically integrated operations with Company owned disposal sites or marketplace neutral disposal sites. During April of fiscal 2017, changes in facts and circumstances led the Company to evaluate the long-term market for South Carolina collection operations and re-evaluate the expected cash flows provided by this market. The Company determined it appropriate to impair certain intangible assets that were recorded as part of the purchase accounting when these entities were acquired. Based on the Company's evaluation, the Company recorded an intangible asset impairment of $13.0 during the second quarter of 2017. Other, Net Changes in the fair value and settlements of derivative instruments are recorded in other (expense) income, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and amounted to losses of $2.0 and $0.7 for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Changes in the fair value and settlements of derivative instruments amounted to losses of $3.3 and $1.3 for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Income from equity investee for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively was $0.2 and $0.5. Income from equity investee for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively was $0.6 and $1.1. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased by $11.1 or 32.4% to $23.1 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 from $34.2 for the three months ended June 30, 2016. Interest expense decreased by $23.0 or 33.5% to $45.6 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 from $68.6 for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decreases were due to the benefit from lower debt levels as a result of paying down debt with our initial public offering proceeds and lower interest rates due to refinancing our debt structure in November of fiscal 2016. See Note 12, Long Term Debt, to our audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on our debt refinancing. Cash paid for interest was $27.6 and $40.4 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Cash paid for interest was $42.4 and $58.2 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Income Taxes The Company's effective income tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was 33.3% and 90.5%, respectively. We evaluate our effective income tax rate at each interim period and adjust it accordingly as facts and circumstances warrant. The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2017 is materially consistent with the federal statutory rate of 35%. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of permanently non-deductible 27 expenses included in stock based compensation. These items had a greater impact on the Company's effective income tax rate during the three months ended June 30, 2016 than in comparable prior periods due to the Company's pre-tax earnings being near break-even for the three month period ending June 30, 2016. The Company's effective income tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was 40.0% and 26.7%, respectively. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily due to the favorable impact of recorded valuation allowance and the favorable impact of state and local taxes. The difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate of 35% and reported income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the change in recorded valuation allowance. Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $0.3 and $1.2 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $0.6 and $1.3 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 28 Reportable Segments Our operations are managed through three geographic regions (South, East and Midwest) that we designate as our reportable segments. As disclosed in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we reorganized our internal structure during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 by moving two business units from the East segment to the South segment. Segment revenue, operating income and depreciation and amortization for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 have been reclassified to reflect these changes to our operating segments. As a result, for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, $5.7 of segment revenue was reclassified from the East to the South, $1.0 of operating income was reclassified from the East to the South and $0.3 of depreciation and amortization was reclassified from the East to the South. For the six months ended June 30, 2016, $11.1 of segment revenue was reclassified from the East to the South, $1.8 of operating income was reclassified from the East to the South and $0.8 of depreciation and amortization was reclassified from the East to the South. Revenues, operating income/(loss) and depreciation and amortization for our reportable segments for the periods indicated, are shown in the following tables: 29 Comparison of Reportable Segments- Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 South Segment Revenue increased $9.8 or 7.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The increase in revenue was due to an increase in acquisition related revenue of $3.0, an increase in prices in our collection operations of $2.6, an increase in volumes in our landfill disposal operations of $1.7, an increase in revenue from transfer station disposal operations of $1.7 and an increase in environmental fees of $0.8 due to a rate increase that went into effect in July of 2016. Operating income from our South Segment increased by $1.0 or 4.3% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to the revenue increase as described above. The increase was partially offset by an increase in disposal and transportation costs of $3.6 to support the increase in our service revenue, an increase in salary and wages of $1.7 due to merit increases, higher healthcare costs and higher workers' compensation costs, an increase in fuel costs of $1.0 due to an increase in diesel fuel prices, an increase in depletion expense of $0.8 due to increased disposal volumes, an increase in repairs and maintenance expense of $0.5 due to acquisition activity and an increase in insurance expenses of $0.5 due to higher automobile and property insurance costs. East Segment Revenue increased by $9.7 , or 10.7% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in acquisition related revenue of $9.0, an increase in third party trucking revenue of $2.0 due to special waste project activity, an increase in special waste volumes of $0.9, an increase in residential and rolloff collection volumes of $0.9 and an increase in recycling revenue of $0.5 due to an increase in recycling commodity prices. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in shale related revenue of $1.7, a decrease in MSW disposal volumes of $1.7 and a decrease in prices in our collection operations of $0.8. Operating income from our East Segment decreased $13.5 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Operating income from our East Segment, net of the $13.0 South Carolina intangible asset impairment, decreased $0.5 or 6.1% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in disposal and transportation costs of $2.8 to support the increase in our service revenue, an increase in salary and wages of $2.3 due to merit increases, higher healthcare costs and higher workers' compensation costs, an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $1.7 due to acquisition activity, an increase in repairs and maintenance expense of $0.9 due to acquisition activity and an increase in fuel expense of $0.8 due to an increase in diesel fuel prices. The decrease was partially offset by the increase to revenue as described above. Midwest Segment Revenue increased $5.4 or 3.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in recycling revenue of $3.2 due to an increase in recycling commodity prices, higher C&D disposal volumes of $1.6, an increase in environmental fees of $1.2 due to a rate increase that went into effect in July of fiscal 2016, higher prices in our collection operations of $0.9 and an increase in fuel surcharge revenue of $0.8 due to the increase in diesel fuel prices. The increases were partially offset by a reduction in residential revenue of $2.6 due to the loss of municipal contracts in fiscal 2016. Operating income from our Midwest Segment increased by $0.1 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The revenue increase of $5.4 above was partially offset by higher disposal and transportation cost of $2.1 to support the increase in our service revenue, an increase in maintenance costs of $1.0 related to landfill gas control, leachate and sulfate treatment, higher salary and wages of $0.4 due to merit increases and higher healthcare costs and higher depletion expense of $0.4 due to increased disposal volumes. Corporate Operating loss decreased $0.4 or 2.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 primarily due to a decrease in stock based compensation expense of $0.8. 30 Comparison of Reportable Segments-Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 South Segment Revenue increased $16.7 or 6.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase in revenue was due to an increase in acquisition related revenue of $4.8, an increase in prices in our collection operations of $5.0, an increase in revenue from transfer station disposal operations of $2.9, an increase in environmental fees of $1.9 due to a rate increase that went into effect in July of 2016, an increase in MSW disposal volume of $1.7 and an increase fuel surcharge revenue of $1.0 due to the increase in diesel fuel prices. Operating income from our South Segment increased by $2.5 or 5.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in revenue as described above partially offset by an increase in disposal and transportation costs of $5.4 to support the increase in our service revenue, an increase in salary and wages of $3.3 due to merit increases, higher healthcare costs and higher workers' compensation costs, an increase in fuel costs of $2.6 due to an increase in diesel fuel prices, an increase in repairs and maintenance expense of $1.3 due to acquisition activity and an increase in depletion expense of $1.2 due to an increase in disposal volumes. East Segment Revenue increased by $12.8, or 7.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in acquisition related revenue of $13.2, an increase in third party trucking revenue of $3.6 due to special waste project activity and an increase in special waste volumes of $0.9. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in shale related revenue of $3.9, a decrease in MSW disposal volumes of $2.3 and a decrease in revenue from divestitures of $1.2. Operating income from our East Segment decreased $18.9 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. Operating income from our East Segment, net of the $13.0 South Carolina intangible asset impairment and $5.4 of costs associated with the Greentree landfill waste slide, decreased $0.5 or 4.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in salary and wages of $3.0 due to merit increases, higher healthcare costs and higher workers' compensation costs, an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $2.7 due to acquisition activity, an increase in fuel costs of $1.9 due to the increase in diesel fuel prices, an increase general and administrative expenses of $1.8 due to increased bad debt expense and higher shared service center costs, an increase in disposal and transportation costs of $1.5 to support the increase in our service revenue, an increase in maintenance costs for landfill gas control, leachate and sulfate treatment of $1.3 and an increase in repairs and maintenance expense of $0.8 due to acquisition activity. The decrease was partially offset by the increase to revenue as described above. Midwest Segment Revenue increased $9.0 or 3.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase was primarily due to an increase in recycling revenue of $6.2 due to an increase in recycling commodity prices, higher prices in our residential and rolloff collection operations of $3.1, an increase in environmental fees of $3.0 due to a rate increase that went into effect in July of fiscal 2016, an increase in fuel surcharge revenue of $1.5 due to the increase in diesel fuel prices and higher C&D disposal volumes of $1.4. The increases were partially offset by a reduction in residential revenue of $5.6 due to the loss of municipal contracts in fiscal 2016. Operating income from our Midwest Segment decreased by $0.1 or 0.3% for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to higher disposal and transportation cost of $3.3 to support the increase in our service revenue, an increase in fuel expense of $1.2 due to the increase in diesel fuel prices, an increase in maintenance costs of $1.6 related to a landfill gas control system and leachate and sulfate treatment and an increase in sales and marketing expense of $0.8 due to hiring additional sales representatives. The decrease was partially offset by the increase to revenue as described above. Corporate Operating loss increased $2.8 or 7.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016 primarily due to expenses incurred of $7.1 during the six months ended June 30, 2016 related to the launch of the initial public 31 offering process that was not completed that did not recur in the six months ended June 30, 2017. The positive impact was partially offset by higher stock compensation expense of $3.0 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operations, bank borrowings, debt offerings and equity offerings. We intend to use excess cash on hand and cash from operating activities, together with bank borrowings, to fund purchases of property and equipment, working capital, acquisitions and debt repayments. Actual debt repayments may include purchases of our outstanding indebtedness in the secondary market or otherwise. We believe that our current cash balances, cash from operating activities and funds available under our Revolver will provide us with sufficient financial resources to meet our anticipated capital requirements and maturing obligations as they come due. At June30, 2017 , the Company had negative working capital which was driven by purchases of property and equipment and landfill construction and development during the six months ended June 30, 2017 as well as the use of our cash to fund acquisitions. At December 31, 2016, we had negative working capital which was driven by repayments on the Term Loan B and cash used for initial public offering costs. The Company has more than adequate availability on its Revolver to fund short term working capital requirements. Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents and Debt Obligations The table below presents a summary of our cash and cash equivalents and debt balances (in millions): Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following table sets forth for the periods indicated a summary of our cash flows (in millions): Cash Flows Provided by Operating Activities We generated $172.8 of cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2017 , compared with $104.4 during the six months ended June 30, 2016 . The variance was primarily due to the following: During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company entered into an Asset Transfer and Liability Assumption Agreement with BFI Waste Systems of North America, LLC. The Company received a cash payment of $24.0 which was recorded as an operating cash flow. In exchange for this payment, the Company assumed certain post-closure liabilities of a closed portion of a landfill and became responsible for expenditures related to a gas infrastructure system. The assumed post-closure liabilities and expenditures related to the gas infrastructure system approximate the amount of the cash payment. The payments related to the assumed post-closure liabilities and expenditures related to the gas infrastructure system will be made in future periods; A larger increase in accounts payable of $18.1 mainly due to the timing of landfill tax payments; 32 A decrease in our net loss by $19.8, after adding back the $13.0 South Carolina intangible asset impairment, due to improved operating results; A decrease in the fair value of derivative instruments of $2.4 compared to an increase of $7.0 in the prior year period. This is primarily due to gains related to fuel derivatives during the six months ended June 30, 2016 and losses related to interest rate caps during the six months ended June 30, 2017. Cash flows from operating activities are used to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions, interest payments and debt. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities We used $154.5 of cash in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2017 compared with $70.8 during the six months ended June 30, 2016 , an increase of $83.7 . The variance was primarily due to the following: An increase of $79.2 in cash expenditures used to fund acquisitions; Higher cash expenditures of $10.7 used to fund the purchase of property and equipment and landfill construction and development; The increase in cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was partially offset by the following: Higher proceeds from the sale of businesses of $6.2 due to the disposition of our Charlotte, North Carolina collection operations during the six months ended June 30, 2017. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2017 , net cash used in financing activities was $16.6 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $33.0 during the six months ended June 30, 2016 , a decrease of $16.4 . The variance was primarily due to the following: A decrease in capital returned to the former parent of $12.6; An decrease in net payments on debt instruments of $10.6 due to proceeds needed to fund acquisitions; An increase in proceeds from stock option exercises of $4.7; The decrease in cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was partially offset by the following: A decrease in bank overdrafts of $11.3. Senior Secured Credit Facilities On November10, 2016, we entered into an Amended and Restated Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Agreement") by and among the Company, the guarantors party thereto, the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders") and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent (respectively, the "Administrative Agent" and the "Collateral Agent"), pursuant to which the Credit Agreement, by and among the Company, the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Collateral Agent, among others, dated as of October9, 2012 (as amended and restated in accordance with the Amended and Restated Agreement) was amended and restated. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $1.5 billion Term Loan B facility maturing 2023, and a $300.0 Revolver maturing 2021 (together, our "Senior Secured Credit Facilities"). The Revolver allows for up to $100.0 million of letters of credit outstanding. At the Company's option, borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement will bear interest at an alternate base rate or adjusted LIBOR rate in each case plus an applicable margin. The alternate base rate is defined as the greater of the prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus 100 basis points. The LIBOR base rate is subject to a 0.75% floor. In the case of the Term Loan B, the applicable margin is 1.75% per annum for ABR Loans and 2.75% per annum for Eurodollar Loans. In the case of the Revolver, the applicable margin is 1.75% per annum for ABR Loans and 2.75% per annum for Eurodollar Loans if our total net leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 4.00:1.00. If our total net leverage ratio is less than 4.00:1.00, the applicable margin on the Revolver is 1.25% per annum for ABR Loans and 2.25% per annum for Eurodollar Loans. 33 Obligations under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement are guaranteed by our existing and future domestic restricted subsidiaries (subject to certain exceptions) and are secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all our personal property assets, and certain real property assets, including all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our domestic subsidiaries (in each cases, subject to certain limited exceptions). Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement may be prepaid at any time without premium. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains usual and customary representations and warranties, and usual and customary affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on liens, additional indebtedness, investments, restricted payments, asset sales, mergers, affiliate transactions and other customary limitations, as well as a total net leverage ratio financial covenant (for the benefit of lenders under the Revolver only). The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also contains usual and customary events of default, including non-payment of principal, interest, fees and other amounts, material breach of a representation or warranty, nonperformance of covenants and obligations, default on other material debt, bankruptcy or insolvency, material judgments, incurrence of certain material ERISA liabilities, impairment of loan documentation or security and change of control. Compliance with these covenants is a condition to any incremental borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and failure to meet these covenants would enable the lenders to require repayment of any outstanding loans (which would adversely affect our liquidity). The Term Loan B has principal payments due quarterly of $3.75 with mandatory prepayments due to the extent net cash proceeds from the sale of assets exceed $25.0 in any fiscal year and are not reinvested in the business within 365 days from the date of sale, upon notification of our intent to take such action or in accordance with Excess Cash Flow, as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. Further prepayments are due when there is Excess Cash Flow, as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. Borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities can be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. As of June 30, 2017 and December31, 2016, we had $5.0 and $0.0 in borrowings outstanding under our Revolver, respectively. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had an aggregate of approximately $40.9 and $42.1 of letters of credit outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, respectively. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had remaining capacity under our Revolver of $254.1 and $257.9, respectively. As of June 30, 2017, we were in compliance with the covenants under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants will be highly dependent on our results of operations and, to the extent necessary, our ability to implement remedial measures such as reductions in operating costs. The Revolver has an annual commitment fee equal to 0.50% per annumif the total net leverage ratio is greater than 4.00:1.00, orif otherwise, 0.375% per annum. The amount of commitment fees for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 were not significant. We are subject to a maximum total net leverage ratio of 6.75:1.00. The actual total net leverage ratio at June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was 4.64:1.00 and 4.76:1.00, respectively. 5.625% Senior Notes due 2024 On November10, 2016, we closed a 144A offering (the "Notes Offering") exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), of $425.0 aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2024 (the "Notes"). We issued the Notes under an indenture dated November10, 2016 (the "Indenture") among the Company, the guarantors party thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Notes bear interest at the rate of 5.625%per year. Interest on the Notes is payable on May15 and November 15 of each year, beginning on May15, 2017. The Notes mature on November15, 2024. Before November15, 2019, we may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. At any time on or after November15, 2019, we may redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at the applicable redemption prices set forth in the Indenture, plus accrued interest. In addition, before November15, 2019, we may, from time to time, redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 105.625% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. The redemption prices set forth in the indenture for the twelve month periods beginning on November 15 of the years indicated below are as follows: 34 The Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional debt or issue certain preferred stock; pay dividends (subject to certain exceptions) or make certain redemptions, repurchases or distributions or make certain other restricted payments or investments; create liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; transfer and sell assets; and create restrictions on dividends or other payments by our restricted subsidiaries. Certain covenants will cease to apply to the Notes for so long as the Notes have investment grade ratings. The Notes will be unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by all of our current and future U.S. subsidiaries that guarantee the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of June 30, 2017, we were in compliance with the covenants under the Indenture. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 , we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance instruments and operating leases, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. Seasonality We expect our operating results to vary seasonally, with revenues typically lowest in the first quarter, higher in the second and third quarters and lower in the fourth quarter than in the second and third quarters. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of solid waste generated during the late fall, winter and early spring in the East and Midwest segments because of decreased construction and demolition activities during winter months in these regions of the U.S. In addition, some of our operating costs may be higher in the winter months. Adverse winter weather conditions slow waste collection activities, resulting in higher labor and operational costs. Greater precipitation in the winter increases the weight of collected municipal solid waste, resulting in higher disposal costs, which are calculated on a per ton basis. Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items As of June30, 2017 , we have $10.5 of liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of other long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. Financial Assurance We must provide financial assurance to governmental agencies and a variety of other entities under applicable environmental regulations relating to our landfill operations for capping, closure and post-closure costs, and related to our performance under certain collection, landfill and transfer station contracts. We satisfy these financial assurance requirements by providing surety bonds and letters of credit. The amount of the financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs is determined by applicable state environmental regulations. The financial assurance requirements for capping, closure and post-closure costs may be associated with a portion of the landfill or the entire landfill. Generally, states require a third-party engineering specialist to determine the estimated capping, closure and post-closure costs that are used to determine the required amount of financial assurance for a landfill. The amount of financial assurance required can, and generally will, differ from the obligation determined and recorded under U.S. GAAP. The amount of the financial assurance requirements related to contract performance varies by contract. Additionally, we must provide financial assurance for our insurance program and collateral for certain performance obligations. We do not expect a material increase in financial assurance requirements in the foreseeable future, although the mix of financial assurance instruments may change. These financial instruments are issued in the normal course of business and are not considered company indebtedness. Because we currently have no liability for these financial assurance instruments, they are not reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. However, we record capping, closure and post-closure liabilities and self-insurance liabilities as they are incurred. The underlying obligations of the financial assurance instruments, in excess of those already reflected in our 35 condensed consolidated balance sheets, would be recorded if it is probable that we would be unable to fulfill our related obligations. We do not expect this to occur. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. However, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. Critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require management's most subjective judgments. A summary of significant accounting policies is disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our critical accounting policies are further described under the caption "Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recently Issued and Proposed Accounting Standards For a description of new accounting standards that may affect us, see Note 2, Basis of Presentation, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part 1 of this Form 10-Q.