Item 1. Financial Statements 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity (unaudited, in thousands, except share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 2U,Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of the Business 2U,Inc. (the Company ) was incorporated as 2TorInc. in the State of Delaware in April2008 and changed its name to 2U,Inc. on October11, 2012. Under long-term agreements, the Company provides an integrated solution comprised of cloud-based software-as-a-service ( SaaS ), fused with technology-enabled services (together, the Platform ), that allows leading colleges and universities to deliver high-quality online degree programs, extending the universities reach and distinguishing their brands. The Company s SaaS technology consists of (i)a comprehensive learning environment ( Online Campus ), which acts as the hub for all student and faculty academic and social interaction, and (ii)operations applications, which provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management and other functionality necessary to effectively operate the Company s clients programs. The Company also provides a suite of technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( U.S.GAAP ) and include the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheets, condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and notes thereto have been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Information The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company has condensed or omitted certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of management, the interim financial information includes all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation of financial position, the results of operations, changes in stockholders equity and cash flows, and the disclosures made herein are adequate to prevent the information presented from being misleading. The results of operations for the three months ended March31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year ending December31, 2016 or the results for any future periods. These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December31, 2015, which are included in the Company s Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) on March10, 2016. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S.GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to the useful lives of long-lived assets, fair value measurements and income taxes, among others. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be affected by changes in those estimates. The Company evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All of the Company s cash is held at financial institutions that management believes to be of high 7 credit quality. The Company s bank accounts exceed federally insured limits at times. The Company has not experienced any losses on cash to date. To manage accounts receivable risk, the Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, if needed. During each of the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, three clients accounted for more than 10% of the Company s revenue, as follows: For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the three largest clients accounted for $17.9 million, $7.8 million and $5.1 million of the Company s revenue, which equals 38%, 16% and 11% of total revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, the three largest clients accounted for $17.5 million, $4.4 million and $4.4 million of the Company s revenue, which equals 51%, 13% and 13% of total revenue. Additionally, the Company s largest client accounted for 15% and 7% of the Company s accounts receivable balance as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. Further, three additional clients accounted for more than 10% of the Company s accounts receivable balance as of March31, 2016, while one additional client accounted for more than 10% of the Company s accounts receivable balance as of December31, 2015. Long-Lived Assets Property and Equipment Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for major additions, construction and improvements are capitalized. Depreciation and amortization is expensed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from three to five years for computer hardware and five to seven years for furniture and office equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated useful life of the improvement, which ranges from four to ten years. Useful lives of significant assets are periodically reviewed and adjusted prospectively to reflect the Company s current estimates of the respective assets expected utility. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to internal-use software, primarily consisting of direct labor associated with creating the software. Software development projects generally include three stages: the preliminary project stage (all costs are expensed as incurred), the application development stage (certain costs are capitalized and certain costs are expensed as incurred) and the post-implementation/operation stage (all costs are expensed as incurred). Costs capitalized in the application development stage include costs of designing the application, coding, integrating the Company s and the university s networks and systems, and the testing of the software. Capitalization of costs requires judgment in determining when a project has reached the application development stage and the period over which the Company expects to benefit from the use of that software. Once the software is placed in service, these costs are amortized on the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which is generally three years. The Company works with each client s faculty members to develop and maintain educational content that is delivered to their students through Online Campus. The online content developed jointly by the Company and its clients consists of subjects chosen and taught by clients faculty members and incorporates references and examples designed to remain relevant over extended periods of time. Online delivery of the content, combined with live, face-to-face instruction, provides the Company with rapid user feedback that it uses to make ongoing corrections, modifications and improvements to the course content. The Company s clients retain all intellectual property rights to the developed content, although the Company retains the rights to the content packaging and delivery mechanisms. Much of the Company s new content development uses proven delivery platforms and is therefore primarily subject-specific in nature. As a result, a significant portion of content development costs qualify for capitalization due to the focus of the Company s development efforts on the unique subject matter of the content. Similar to on-campus programs offered by the Company s clients, the online degree programs enabled by the Company offer numerous courses for each degree. The Company therefore capitalizes its development costs on a course-by-course basis. As students must matriculate into a client program in order to take a course, revenues and identifiable cash flows are also measured at the client program level. The Company develops content on a course-by-course basis in conjunction with the faculty for each client program. The clients and their faculty generally provide course outlines in the form of the curriculum, required textbooks, case studies and other reading materials, as well as presentations that are typically used in the on-campus setting. The Company is then responsible for, and incurs all of the expenses related to, the conversion of the materials provided by each client into a format suitable for delivery through Online Campus. 8 The content development costs that qualify for capitalization are third-party direct costs, such as videography, editing and other services associated with creating digital content. Additionally, the Company capitalizes internal payroll and payroll-related costs incurred to create and produce videos and other digital content utilized in the clients programs for delivery via Online Campus. Capitalization ends when content has been fully developed by both the Company and the client, at which time amortization of the capitalized content development costs begins. The capitalized costs are recorded on a course-by-course basis and included in capitalized content costs on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. These costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the respective capitalized content program, which is generally five years. The estimated useful life corresponds with the Company s planned curriculum refresh rate. This refresh rate is consistent with expected curriculum refresh rates as cited by program faculty members for similar on-campus programs. It is reasonably possible that developed content could be refreshed before the estimated useful lives are complete or be expensed immediately in the event that the development of a course is discontinued prior to launch. Evaluation of Long-Lived Assets The Company reviews long-lived assets, which consist of property and equipment, capitalized technology costs, capitalized content development costs and acquired finite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of a long-lived asset is measured by a comparison of the carrying value of an asset or asset group to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by that asset or asset group. If such assets are not recoverable, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of an asset exceeds the estimated fair value (discounted cash flow) of the asset or asset group. In order to assess the recoverability of the capitalized content development costs, the costs are grouped by program, which is the lowest level of independent cash flows. The Company s impairment analysis is based upon forecasted financial and operational results. The actual results could vary from the Company s forecasts, especially in relation to recently launched programs. For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, no impairment of long-lived assets was deemed to have occurred. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following conditions are met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)rendering of services is complete, (iii)fees are fixed or determinable and (iv)collection of fees is reasonably assured. The Company primarily derives its revenue from long-term contracts that typically range from 10 to 15years in length. Under these contracts, the Company enables access to its Platform to its clients and their faculty and students. The Company is entitled to a contractually specified percentage of net program proceeds from its clients. These net program proceeds represent gross proceeds billed by clients to students, less credit card fees and other specified charges the Company has agreed to exclude in certain of its client contracts. The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from multiple-deliverable contractual arrangements with its clients. Under each of these arrangements, the Company provides (i)access to Online Campus, which serves as a learning platform for its client s faculty and students and which also enables a comprehensive range of other client functions, (ii)access to operations applications which provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management, and other functionality necessary to effectively operate the Company s clients programs and (iii)technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. In order to treat deliverables in a multiple-deliverable contractual arrangement as separate units of accounting, deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. The technology-enabled services within the Platform are provided primarily in support of programs delivered through Online Campus, and for students of the programs delivered through Online Campus. Accordingly, the Company has determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, deliverables within the Company s multiple-deliverable arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Therefore, the Company considers all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting and recognizes revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. Advance payments are recorded as deferred revenue until services are delivered or obligations are met, at which time revenue is recognized. Deferred revenue as of a particular balance sheet date represents the excess of amounts received as compared to amounts recognized in revenue in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as of the end of the reporting period, and such amounts are reflected as a current liability on the Company s condensed consolidated balance sheets. 9 Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation awards based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For awards subject to service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the awards requisite service period, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. For awards subject to both performance and service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense using an accelerated recognition method when it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. See Note7 for a summary of assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock options. Comprehensive Loss The Company s net loss equals comprehensive loss for all periods presented as the Company has no material components of other comprehensive income. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No.2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation . The ASU simplifies various aspects related to the accounting and presentation of share-based payments. The guidance also allows employers to withhold shares to satisfy minimum statutory withholding requirements up to the employees maximum individual tax rate without causing the award to be classified as a liability. Additionally, the guidance stipulates that cash paid by an employer to a taxing authority when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period, with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases. The ASU introduces a model for lessees requiring most leases to be reported on the balance sheet. Lessor accounting remains substantially similar to current U.S. GAAP. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In November2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes. The ASU eliminates the requirement to classify deferred tax assets and liabilities between current and noncurrent. The ASU requires classification of all deferred tax asset and liability balances as noncurrent. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. Adoption of the ASU is either retrospective to each prior period presented, or prospective. As of December31, 2015, the Company early adopted the ASU prospectively. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In April2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-05,Intangibles Goodwill and Other Internal-Use Software. The ASU provides guidance to customers in a cloud computing arrangement to determine whether the arrangement includes a software license. When a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, the customer is required to account for the license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In April2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-03,Interest Imputation of Interest. The ASU simplifies the presentation of debt issuance costs by requiring that such costs be presented in the consolidated balance sheets as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the associated debt instrument, consistent with debt discounts. Subsequent to the issuance of this ASU, the SEC staff announced that the presentation of debt issuance costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements may be presented as an asset. This announcement was codified by the FASB in ASU 2015-15. The amendments in these ASUs are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In January2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-01, Income Statement Extraordinary and Unusual Items . The ASU simplifies income statement presentation by eliminating the concept of extraordinary items. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In August2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15,Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The ASU requires that an entity s management evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entity s ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. The 10 amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods ending afterDecember15, 2016. The Company does not expect the new standard to have a significant impact on its reporting process. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S.GAAP when it becomes effective. In July2015, the FASB deferred the mandatory effective date of this ASU by one year from January1, 2017 to January1, 2018. Early application is permitted, but not prior to the original effective date of January1, 2017. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. 3. Property and Equipment Property and equipment consisted of the following as of: Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment was $0.3million and $0.2 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of March31, 2016, the estimated future depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment is as follows (in thousands): 4. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs Capitalized technology and content development costs consisted of the following as of: 11 Amortization expense related to capitalized technology was $0.5 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and is included in technology and content development costs in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company re corded amortization expense related to capitalized content development costs of $1.2 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of March31, 2016, the estimated future amortization expense for the capitalized technology and content development costs is as follows (in thousands): 5. Commitments and Contingencies Line of Credit On December 31, 2013, the Company entered into a credit agreement for a revolving line of credit with an aggregate borrowing commitment not to exceed $37.0 million. On January 21, 2014, the Company borrowed $5.0 million under this line of credit and repaid this borrowing in full on February 18, 2014. There have been no subsequent borrowings under this line of credit and therefore, no amounts were outstanding as of March 31, 2016 or December 31, 2015. On December 31, 2015, the Company amended this credit agreement to reduce the aggregate amount it may borrow to $25.0 million and extend the maturity date through April 29, 2016, and on April 27, 2016, the Company amended this credit agreement to extend the maturity date through June 28, 2016. In connection with the Company entering into an operating lease agreement on December 23, 2015, to lease its new office facility in Lanham, Maryland, the Company entered into a standby letter of credit on January 22, 2016 in the amount of $6.0 million as a security deposit for the new leased facilities. This letter of credit reduced the aggregate amount the Company may borrow under its revolving line of credit to $19.0 million. Under this revolving line of credit, the Company has the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, the Company may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, the Company makes interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if such borrowed amounts are repaid before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of the Company s assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that the Company achieves specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, the Company is required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company s adjusted quick ratio was 8.59 and 7.90, respectively. The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on the Company s ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in its assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with affiliates, amend or modify the terms of material contracts, or change its fiscal year. If the Company is not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or it otherwise experiences an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If the Company fails to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets pledged as collateral under the line of credit. The Company is currently in compliance with all such covenants. Legal Contingencies From time to time, the Company may become involved in legal proceedings or other contingencies in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is not presently involved in any legal proceeding or other contingency that, if determined adversely to it, would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that a material loss exceeding amounts already recognized may have been incurred as of the date of the balance sheets presented herein. 12 Program Marketing and Sales Commitments Certain of the agreements entered into between the Company and its clients require the Company to commit to meet certain staffing and spending investment thresholds related to program marketing and sales activities. In addition, certain of the agreements require the Company to invest up to agreed-upon levels in marketing the programs to achieve specified program performance. The Company believes it is currently in compliance with all such commitments. Operating Leases The Company leases office facilities under non-cancelable operating leases in Maryland, New York, California, Colorado, North Carolina, Virginia and Hong Kong. The Company also leases office equipment under non-cancelable leases. As of March31, 2016, the future minimum lease payments (net of aggregate expected sublease payments of $0.2million) were as follows (in thousands): The future minimum lease payments due under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements contain fixed rent increases over the term of the lease. Rent expense on these operating leases is recognized over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. The excess of rent expense over future minimum lease payments due has been reported in non-current liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The deferred rent liability related to these leases totaled $0.5million and $0.6 million as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. Total rent expense from non-cancelable operating lease agreements (net of sublease income of $0.1million and $0.1 million) was $1.0million and $0.6 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Fixed Payments to Clients The Company is contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of its clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. Currently, the future minimum fixed payments to the Company s clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights were as follows (in thousands): Contingent Payments to Clients The Company has entered into specific program agreements under which it would be obligated to make future minimum program payments to a client in the event that certain program metrics, partially associated with programs not yet launched, are not achieved. Due to the dependency of these calculations on future program launches, the amounts of any associated contingent payments cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As the Company cannot reasonably estimate the amounts of the contingent payments, and because it believes any contingent payments under this agreement would likely be immaterial, the Company has excluded such payments from the table above. 13 6. Stockholders Equity As of March31, 2016, the Company was authorized to issue 205,000,000 total shares of capital stock, consisting of 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At March31, 2016, the Company had reserved a total of 10,225,560 of its authorized shares of common stock for future issuance as follows: The compensation committee of the Company s board of directors, acting under authority delegated from the board of directors, granted on April1, 2016 option awards to employees to purchase an aggregate of 669,013 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $22.67 and restricted stock unit awards for an aggregate of 626,135 shares of common stock, in each case under the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (as defined in Note 7 below). 7. Stock-Based Compensation The Company provides equity-based compensation awards to employees, independent contractors and directors as an effective means for attracting, retaining and motivating such individuals. The Company maintains two share-based compensation plans: the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan ) and the 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2008 Plan ). Upon the effective date of the 2014 Plan in January2014, the Company ceased using the 2008 Plan to grant new equity awards and began using the 2014 Plan for grants of new equity awards. The number of shares of the Company s common stock that may be issued under the 2014 Plan will automatically increase on January1stof each year, for a period of ten years, from January1, 2015 continuing through January1, 2024, by 5% of the total number of shares of the Company s common stock outstanding on December31stof the preceding calendar year, or a lesser number of shares as may be determined by the Company s board of directors. The shares available for issuance increased by 2,288,820 and 2,036,503 on January1, 2016 and 2015, respectively, pursuant to the automatic share reserve increase provision under the 2014 Plan. Stock-Based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards is included in the following line items in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations: Stock Options The following table summarizes the assumptions used for estimating the fair value of the stock options granted for the periods presented. 14 The following is a summary of the stock option activity for the three months ended March31, 2016: The total compensation cost related to the nonvested options not yet recognized as of March31, 2016 was $10.3million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.0years. The aggregate intrinsic value of the options exercised during the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 was $5.3million and $5.6million, respectively. Restricted Stock Units The following is a summary of restricted stock unit activity for the three months ended March31, 2016: The total compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted stock units not yet recognized as of March31, 2016 was $13.5million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.5years. Other Stock Awards During the three months ended March31, 2016, the Company granted 21,953 shares of common stock to a key employee, with a fair value of $0.4 million. 8. Net Loss per Share Diluted net loss per share is the same as basic net loss per share for all periods presented because the effects of potentially dilutive items were anti-dilutive, given the Company s net loss. The following securities have been excluded from the calculation of weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding because the effect is anti-dilutive for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015: Basic and diluted net loss per share is calculated as follows: 15 9. Segment and Geographic Information Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which discrete financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. The Company s CODM reviews the financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. As such, the Company s operations constitute a single operating segment and one reportable segment. The Company offers similar services to substantially all of its clients, which primarily represent well-recognized nonprofit colleges and universities in the United States. Substantially all assets were held and all revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented. Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. Certain statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ), as amended. The words or phrases would be, will allow, intends to, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project, or similar expressions, or the negative of such words or phrases, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Because such statements include risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause or contribute to these differences, including those discussed in PartI,Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Statements made herein are as of the date of the filing of this Form10-Q with the SEC and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake, and we specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December31, 2015, which are included in our Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on March10, 2016. Overview We are a leading provider of an integrated solution comprised of cloud-based software-as-a-service, or SaaS, technology fused with technology-enabled services, which we refer to as our Platform. Our Platform enables leading nonprofit colleges and universities to deliver their high-quality education to qualified students anywhere. Our SaaS technology consists of an innovative online learning environment, which we refer to as Online Campus, and our operations applications. This technology is fused with technology-enabled services, to complete our Platform. Our Platform allows our clients programs to expand and operate at scale, providing the comprehensive infrastructure colleges and universities need to attract, enroll, educate, support and graduate their students. By leveraging our Platform, we believe our clients are able to expand their addressable markets while providing educational engagement, experiences and outcomes to their online students that match or exceed those of their on-campus offerings. Our Business Model The key elements of our business model are described below. Revenue Drivers and Predictability Substantially all of our revenue is derived from revenue-share arrangements with our clients, under which we receive a contractually specified percentage of the amounts students pay them in tuition and other fees. Accordingly, the primary driver of our revenue growth is the increase in the number of student course enrollments in our clients programs. This in turn is influenced primarily by three factors: our ability to increase the number of programs offered by our clients, either by adding new clients or by expanding the number of client programs; our ability to identify and acquire prospective students for our clients programs; and 16 our ability, and that of our clients, to retain the students who enroll in their programs. In the near term, we expect the primary drivers of our financial results to continue to be our two programs with the University of Southern California, which are our longest running programs, which we launched in 2009 and 2010. For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, 38% and 51%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from these two programs. We expect the University of Southern California will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue even though that portion will likely continue to decline as other client programs become more mature and achieve higher enrollment levels. For example, our programs with Simmons College and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill accounted for 16% and 11%, respectively, of our revenue for the three months ended March31, 2016. A significant percentage of our revenue in any period is related to students returning to our clients programs after their first academic term. We believe this contributes to the predictability and recurring nature of our business. Program Marketing and Sales Expense Our most significant expense in each fiscal period has been program marketing and sales expense, which relates primarily to student acquisition activities. We do not spend significant amounts on new client or program acquisition and we do not maintain a sales force targeted at potential new clients or programs since our model is not dependent on launching a large number of new programs per year, either with new or existing clients. Instead, our new clients and programs are largely generated through a direct approach by our senior management to selected colleges and universities. We have primary responsibility for identifying qualified students for our clients programs, generating potential student interest in the programs and driving applications to the programs. While our clients make all admissions decisions, the number of students who enroll in our clients programs in any given period is significantly dependent on the amount we have spent on these student acquisition activities in prior periods. Accordingly, although most of our clients programs span multiple academic terms and, therefore, generate continued revenue beyond the term in which initial enrollments occur, we expect that we will need to continue to incur significant program marketing and sales expense for existing programs going forward to generate a continuous pipeline of new enrollments. For new programs, we begin incurring program marketing and sales costs as early as nine months prior to the start of a new client program. We typically identify prospective students for our clients programs between three months and two or more years before they ultimately enroll. For the students currently enrolled in our clients programs and those who have graduated, the average time from our initial prospective student acquisition to initial enrollment was seven months. For the students who have graduated from these programs, the average time from initial enrollment to graduation was 22months. Based on the student retention rates and patterns we have observed in our clients programs, we estimate that, for our current programs, the average time from a student s initial enrollment to graduation will be approximately twoyears. Accordingly, our program marketing and sales expense in any period is an investment we make to generate revenue in future periods. Likewise, revenue generated in any period is largely attributable to the investment made in student acquisition activities in earlier periods. Because program marketing and sales expense in any period is almost entirely unrelated to revenue generated in that period, we do not believe it is meaningful to directly compare the two. We believe that the total revenue we will receive in the future from students who enroll in our clients programs as a result of current period program marketing and sales expense will be significantly greater as a multiple of that expense than is implied by the multiple of current period revenue to current period program marketing and sales expense. Further, we believe that our program marketing and sales expense in future periods will generally decline as a percentage of the revenue reported in those same periods as our revenue base from returning students in existing programs increases. We continually manage our program marketing and sales expense to ensure that across our portfolio of client programs, our cost to acquire students for these programs is appropriate for our business model. We use a ratio of attrition adjusted lifetime revenue of a student, or LTR, to the total cost to acquire that student, or TCA, as the measure of our marketing efficiency and to determine how much we are willing to spend to acquire an additional student for any program. The calculations included in this ratio include certain assumptions. For any period, we know what we spent on program sales and marketing and therefore, can accurately calculate the ratio s denominator. However, given the time lag between when we incur our program marketing and sales expense and when we receive revenue related to students enrolled based on that expense, we have to incorporate forecasts of student enrollments and retention into our calculation of the ratio s numerator, which is our estimate of future revenue related to that period s expense. We use the significant amount of data we have on the effectiveness of various marketing channels, student attrition and other factors to inform our forecasts and are continually testing the assumptions underlying these forecasts against actual results to give us confidence that our forecasts are reasonable. The LTR to TCA ratio may vary from program to program depending on the degree being offered, where that program is in its lifecycle and whether we enable the same or similar degrees at other universities. 17 Period-to-Period Fluctuations Our revenue, cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to variations driven by the academic schedules of our clients programs. These programs generally start classes for new and returning students an average of four times per year. Classstarts are not necessarily evenly spaced throughout the year, do not necessarily correspond to the traditional academic calendar and may vary from year to year. As a result, the number of classes our client programs have in session, and therefore the number of students enrolled, will vary from month to month and quarter to quarter, leading to variability in our revenue. Our clients programs often have academic terms that straddle two fiscal quarters. Our clients generally pay us when they have billed tuition and specified fees to their students, which is typically early in the academic term, and once the drop/add period has passed. We recognize the related revenue ratably over the course of the academic term, beginning on the first day of classes through the last. Because we generally receive payments from our clients prior to our ability to recognize the majority of those amounts as revenue, we record deferred revenue at each balance sheet date equal to the excess of the amounts we have billed or received from our clients over the amounts we have recognized as revenue as of that date. For these reasons, our cash flows typically vary considerably from quarter to quarter and our cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue typically fluctuate between quarterly balance sheet dates. Our expense levels also fluctuate from quarter to quarter, driven primarily by our program marketing and sales activity. We typically reduce our paid search and other program marketing and sales efforts during late Novemberand Decemberbecause these efforts are less productive during the holiday season. This generally results in lower total program marketing and sales expense during the fourth quarter. In addition, because we begin spending on program marketing and sales, and, to a lesser extent, services and support as much as nine months prior to the start of classes for a new client program, these costs as a percentage of revenue fluctuate, sometimes significantly, depending on the timing of new client programs and anticipated program launch dates. Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations First Quarter 2016 Highlights Revenue was $47.4 million, an increase of 37.1% from $34.6 million in the first quarter of 2015. Net loss was $(3.4) million, or $(0.07) per share, compared to $(5.5) million or $(0.13) per share, in the first quarter of 2015. Adjusted EBITDA was $2.2 million, compared to an adjusted EBITDA loss of $(1.6) million in the first quarter of 2015. Revenue Substantially all of our revenue consists of a contractually specified percentage of the amounts our clients bill to their students for tuition and fees, less credit card fees and other specified charges we have agreed to exclude in certain of our client contracts, which we refer to as net program proceeds. Most of our contracts have 10 to 15 year initial terms. We recognize revenue ratably over the service period, which we define as the first through the last day of classes for each academic term in a client s program. We establish a refund allowance for our share of tuition and fees ultimately uncollected by our clients. We also offered rebates to a limited group of students who enrolled in a specific client program between 2009 and 2011, which we will be required to pay to such students if they complete their degrees and pre-specified, post-graduation work requirements within a defined period of time after graduation. For students in this group who are still enrolled in the program, we accrue the rebate liability as they continue through the program towards graduation. In addition, all students in this group are required to certify to us each Septemberas to their continuing eligibility for these rebates. For those students who do not make such certification and are therefore no longer eligible for the rebate, because, for example, they have failed to meet their post-graduation work requirements, we reduce the allowance accordingly at that time. As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, 85 and 81 students, respectively, remained eligible to receive these rebates. These rebates and refunds offset the net program proceeds that we recognize as revenue. In addition to providing access to the SaaS technology within our Platform, we provide technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities and facilitating in-program field placements. We have determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, the multiple deliverables within our arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Accordingly, we consider all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting, and we recognize revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. 18 We generally receive payments from our clients early in each academic term, prior to completion of the service period. We record these advance payments as deferred revenue until the services are delivered or until our obligations are otherwise met, at which time we recognize the revenue. As of each balance sheet date, deferred revenue is a current liability and represents the excess amounts we have billed or received over the amounts we have recognized as revenue in the consolidated statements of operations as of that date. The components of revenue for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: * Not meaningful for comparison purposes. Revenue . Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $47.4 million, an increase of $12.8 million, or 37.1%, from $34.6 million for the same period of 2015. Of the increase, the six client programs launched more than three years ago resulted in higher period-over-period revenues of $7.2 million, while $4.1 million was primarily attributable to increases in period-over-period full course equivalent enrollments in the client programs that launched between two to three years ago. Increases in full-course equivalent enrollments in the programs that launched less than two years ago contributed additional revenues of $1.5 million. Costs and Expenses Costs and expenses consist of servicing and support costs, technology and content development costs, program marketing and sales expenses and general and administrative expenses. To support our anticipated growth, we expect to continue to hire new employees (which will increase both our cash and non-cash equity compensation costs), increase our program promotion and student acquisition efforts, expand our technology infrastructure and increase our other program support capabilities. As a result, we expect our costs and expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we achieve economies of scale through the expansion of our business. Servicing and support. Servicing and support expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs related to program management and operations, as well as costs for technical support for our SaaS technology and faculty and student support. It includes costs to facilitate in-program field placements, student immersions and other student enrichment experiences and costs to assist our clients with their state compliance requirements. It also includes software licensing, telecommunications and other costs to provide access to the SaaS technology within our Platform for our clients and their students. Technology and content development. Technology and content development expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation and outsourced services costs related to the ongoing improvement and maintenance of the SaaS technology within our Platform and the developed content for our client programs. It also includes the costs to support our internal infrastructure, including our cloud-based server usage. Additionally, it includes the associated amortization expense related to capitalized technology and content development costs, as well as hosting and other costs associated with maintaining the SaaS technology within our Platform in a cloud environment. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense consists primarily of costs related to student acquisition. This includes the cost of online advertising and prospective student generation, as well as cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for our program marketing, search engine optimization, marketing analytics and admissions application counseling personnel. We expense all costs related to program marketing and sales as they are incurred. General and administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for employees in our executive, administrative, finance and accounting, legal, communications and human resources functions. Additional expenses include external legal, accounting and other professional fees, telecommunications charges and other corporate costs such as insurance and travel that are not related to another function. 19 The costs and expenses for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Servicing and support. Servicing and support costs for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $9.5 million, an increase of $2.0 million, or 26.0%, from $7.5 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $1.1 million increase in cash compensation costs, a $0.3 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs and a $0.3 million increase in travel and related expenses as we increased our headcount in this area by 29% to serve a growing number of students and faculty in existing and new client programs. Additionally, other servicing and support costs increased $0.3 million. As a percentage of revenue, servicing and support costs decreased from 21.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to 20.0% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Technology and content development. Technology and content development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $7.3 million, an increase of $1.2 million, or 18.6%, from $6.1 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $0.6 million increase in cash compensation costs (net of amounts capitalized for technology and content development) and a $0.2 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs, as we increased our headcount in this area by 35% to support scaling of existing client programs. Further, an increase of $0.3 million resulted from higher amortization expense associated with our capitalized technology and content development costs, primarily as a result of an increase in the number of courses that have been developed for our client programs. Additionally, costs related to our cloud-based server usage increased by $0.1 million. As a percentage of revenue, technology and content development costs decreased from 17.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to 15.3% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $23.7 million, an increase of $4.1 million, or 20.8%, from $19.6 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $1.8 million increase in cash compensation costs and a $0.1 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs as we increased our headcount in this area by 22% to acquire students for, and drive revenue growth in, new client programs. Additionally, direct internet marketing costs to acquire students for our clients programs increased by $1.6 million, and other program marketing and sales expenses increased by $0.6 million to support our program marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, program marketing and sales expense decreased from 56.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to 49.9% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. General and administrative. General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $10.4 million, an increase of $3.7 million, or 55.7%, from $6.7 million for the same period of 2015. This was due primarily to a $1.1 million increase in cash compensation costs and a $0.9 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs as we increased in our headcount in this area by 35% to support our growing business. Further, accounting services primarily related to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and other professional fees increased by $0.5 million, employee education benefits increased by $0.5 million, travel and related expenses increased by $0.1 million, while other general and administrative costs increased by $0.6 million. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expense increased from 19.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 to 22.0% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in expense than the increase in revenue. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is a component of compensation cost within each of the four cost and expense categories described above. In early 2014, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved a framework for granting equity awards under our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan. Under this framework, the majority of our equity awards are made on or around April 1 of each year and typically have four-year vesting periods. As such, non-cash stock-based compensation expense is expected to continue to increase year-over-year until four years after the initial mid-2014 grants. 20 Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists of interest income, interest expense and other expenses. Interest income is derived from interest received on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense consists primarily of the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our line of credit. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Income tax expense consists of U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes. To date, we have not been required to pay U.S. federal income taxes because of our current and accumulated net operating losses. We incurred immaterial state and foreign income tax liabilities for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015. Key Business and Financial Performance Metrics We use a number of key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. In addition to adjusted EBITDA, which we discuss below, we discuss revenue and the components of operating loss in the section above entitled Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations. Additionally, we utilize other key metrics to evaluate the success of our growth strategy, including measures we refer to as Platform revenue retention rate and full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs. Platform Revenue Retention Rate We measure our Platform revenue retention rate for a particular period by first identifying the group of programs that our clients launched before the beginning of the prior year comparative period. We then calculate our Platform revenue retention rate by comparing the revenue we recognized for this group of programs in the reporting period to the revenue we recognized for the same group of programs in the prior year comparative period, expressed as a percentage of the revenue we recognized for the group in the prior year comparative period. The following table sets forth our Platform revenue retention rate for the periods presented, as well as the number of programs included in the Platform revenue retention rate calculation. For all of these periods, our Platform revenue retention rate was greater than 100% because we had no programs terminate and full course equivalent enrollments in the aggregate increased year-over-year. There is no direct correlation between the Platform revenue retention rate and the number of programs included in the calculation of that rate. However, there may be a correlation between the Platform revenue retention rate and the average maturity of the programs included in the calculation of that rate because newer programs tend to have higher percentage growth rates. (1) Reflects the number of programs operating both in the reported period and in the prior year comparative period. Full Course Equivalent Enrollments in Our Clients Programs We measure full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs by determining, for each of the courses offered during a particular period, the number of students enrolled in that course multiplied by the percentage of the course completed during that period. We use this metric to account for the fact that many courses offered by our clients straddle two or more fiscal quarters. For example, if a course had 25 enrolled students and 40% of the course was completed during a particular period, we would count the course as having 10 full course equivalent enrollments for that period. Any individual student may be enrolled in more than one course during a period. Average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment represents our weighted-average revenue per course across the mix of courses being offered in our client programs during a period. This number is derived by dividing our total revenue for a period by the number of full course equivalent enrollments during that same period. This amount may vary from period to period depending on the academic calendars of our clients, the relative growth rates of programs with varying tuition levels, the launch of new programs with higher or lower than average net tuition costs and annual tuition increases instituted by our clients. As a part of our growth strategy, we are actively targeting new graduate-level clients in academic disciplines for which we have existing programs. Over time, this strategy is 21 likely to reduce our average revenue per full course equivalent. However, we believe this approach will enable us to leverage our program marketing investments across multiple client programs within specific academic disciplines, significantly decreasing student acquisition costs within those disciplines and more than offsetting any decline in average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment. The following table sets forth the full course equivalent enrollments and average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment in our clients programs for the periods presented. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA represents our earnings before net interest (income) expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted to eliminate stock-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash item. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S.GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with U.S.GAAP. In addition, adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we do. We prepare adjusted EBITDA to eliminate the impact of stock-based compensation expense, which we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. Our use of adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S.GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other U.S.GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other U.S. GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated. 22 Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates This management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates if conditions differ from our assumptions. During the three months ended March31, 2016, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies and use of estimates, which are disclosed in our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December31, 2015 included in our Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on March10, 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity On December31, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Comerica Bank for a revolving line of credit, under which we could borrow up to $37.0million from a syndicate of lenders including Comerica Bank and Square 1 Bank, with a maturity date of December31, 2015. On January21, 2014, we borrowed $5.0 million under this line of credit and repaid this borrowing in full on February18, 2014. On December31, 2015, we amended our credit agreement with Comerica Bank to reduce the aggregate amount we may borrow to $25.0 million, remove Square 1 Bank as a lender and extend the maturity date through April29, 2016. On April27, 2016, we amended our credit agreement to extend the maturity date through June28, 2016. There have been no subsequent borrowings under this line of credit. In connection with entering into an operating lease agreement on December23, 2015, to lease our new office facility in Lanham, Maryland, we entered into a standby letter of credit on January22, 2016 in the amount of $6.0 million as a security deposit for the new leased facilities. This letter of credit reduced the aggregate amount we may borrow under our revolving line of credit to $19.0 million. Under this revolving line of credit, we have the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, we may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, we may make interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if we repay such borrowed amounts before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to our compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that we achieve specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some of our client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures our short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015, our adjusted quick ratios were 8.59 and 7.90, respectively. The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in our assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with our affiliates, amend or modify the terms of our material contracts, or change our fiscal year. If we are not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or we otherwise experience an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If we fail to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets we have pledged as collateral under the line of credit. We are currently in compliance with all such covenants. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented. 23 Operating Activities For the three months ended March31, 2016, net cash provided by operating activities of $6.3million consisted of $5.7million in non-cash items and a $4.0million net cash inflow from changes in working capital, partially offset by a net loss of $3.4 million. Non-cash ite ms consisted of non-cash stock-based compensation charges of $3.5 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $2.1 million. The increase in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of a $7.4 million increase in deferred revenue, a $2.3 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $1.8 million increase in accounts payable and a $0.4 million change in other assets and other liabilities. These increases were partially offset by a $6.5 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits and a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. For the three months ended March31, 2015, net cash used in operating activities was $1.3 million, consisting of a net loss of $5.5 million, partially offset by $3.8 million in non-cash items and a $0.4 million change in working capital. Non-cash items consisted of non-cash stock compensation charges of $2.1 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $1.7 million. The increase in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of increases in accounts payable of $4.8 million and deferred revenue of $4.2 million and refunds payable of $0.4 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $4.0 million, a $2.5 million increase in prepaid expenses, a $2.3 million decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities due to lower accrued program marketing costs and a $0.2 million outflow related to advances to clients. Investing Activities For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, net cash used in investing activities was $4.0million and $3.3 million, respectively. These expenditures were primarily for the development of internal-use software and asynchronous content developed for client programs, and equipment. Financing Activities For the three months ended March31, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.7million, consisting of $1.0 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.3 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock units. For the three months ended March31, 2015, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.8 million, consisting of $1.2 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.4 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock units. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have non-cancelable operating leases for our office space, and we are also contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of our university clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. We have a $25.0million line of credit from Comerica Bank. On January21, 2014, we borrowed $5.0million under this line of credit and repaid this borrowing in full on February18, 2014. There have been no subsequent borrowings under this line of credit, and therefore, no amounts were outstanding as of March31, 2016. See Note5 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 and Legal Proceedings contained in PartII,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for additional information regarding contingencies. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item303(a)(4)(ii)of RegulationS-K, such as the use of unconsolidated subsidiaries, structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note2 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for a discussion of FASB s recent accounting pronouncements and their effect on us.Item 1. Financial Statements 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity (unaudited, in thousands, except share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 2U,Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of the Business 2U,Inc. (the Company ) was incorporated as 2TorInc. in the State of Delaware in April2008 and changed its name to 2U,Inc. on October11, 2012. Under long-term agreements, the Company provides an integrated solution comprised of cloud-based software-as-a-service ( SaaS ), fused with technology-enabled services (together, the Platform ), that allows leading colleges and universities to deliver high-quality online degree programs, extending the universities reach and distinguishing their brands. The Company s SaaS technology consists of (i)a comprehensive learning environment ( Online Campus ), which acts as the hub for all student and faculty academic and social interaction, and (ii)operations applications, which provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management and other functionality necessary to effectively operate the Company s clients programs. The Company also provides a suite of technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( U.S.GAAP ) and include the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed consolidated statement of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. Prior period working capital amounts in the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows have been reclassified within operating activities. These reclassifications had no impact on net cash provided by operating activities previously reported for the period. Within the condensed consolidated balance sheet, capitalized technology costs have been reclassified out of property and equipment and have been aggregated with capitalized content development costs, as capitalized technology and content development costs, net, and the notes thereto. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Information The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company has condensed or omitted certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of management, the interim financial information includes all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation of financial position, the results of operations, changes in stockholders equity and cash flows, and the disclosures made herein are adequate to prevent the information presented from being misleading. The results of operations for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year ending December31, 2016 or the results for any future periods. These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December31, 2015, which are included in the Company s Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) on March10, 2016. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S.GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to the useful lives of long-lived assets, fair value measurements and income taxes, among others. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be affected by changes in those estimates. The Company evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. 7 Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All of the Company s cash is held at financial institutions that management believes to be of high credit quality. The Company s bank accounts exceed federally insured limits at times. The Company has not experienced any losses on cash to date. To manage accounts receivable risk, the Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, if needed. During the three months ended June30, 2016, three clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $17.6 million, $9.1 million and $5.1 million, which equals 36%, 18% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. During the three months ended June 30, 2015, four clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $15.9 million, $5.9 million, $4.0 million and $3.4 million, which equals 45%, 17%, 11% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. During the six months ended June30, 2016, three clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $35.5 million, $16.9 million and $10.2 million, which equals 37%, 17% and 11% of total revenue, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2015, four clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $33.4 million, $10.3 million, $8.3 million and $6.8 million, which equals 48%, 15%, 12% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. Additionally, the Company s largest client accounted for 79% and 7% of the Company s accounts receivable balance as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. No additional clients accounted for more than 10% of the Company s accounts receivable balance as of June30, 2016, while one additional client accounted for more than 10% of the Company s accounts receivable balance as of December31, 2015. Long-Lived Assets Property and Equipment Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for major additions, construction and improvements are capitalized. Depreciation and amortization is expensed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from three to five years for computer hardware and five to seven years for furniture and office equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated useful life of the improvement, which ranges from four to ten years. Useful lives of significant assets are periodically reviewed and adjusted prospectively to reflect the Company s current estimates of the respective assets expected utility. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to internal-use software, primarily consisting of direct labor associated with creating the software. Software development projects generally include three stages: the preliminary project stage (all costs are expensed as incurred), the application development stage (certain costs are capitalized and certain costs are expensed as incurred) and the post-implementation/operation stage (all costs are expensed as incurred). Costs capitalized in the application development stage include costs of designing the application, coding, integrating the Company s and the university s networks and systems, and the testing of the software. Capitalization of costs requires judgment in determining when a project has reached the application development stage and the period over which the Company expects to benefit from the use of that software. Once the software is placed in service, these costs are amortized on the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which is generally three years. The Company works with each client s faculty members to develop and maintain educational content that is delivered to their students through Online Campus. The online content developed jointly by the Company and its clients consists of subjects chosen and taught by clients faculty members and incorporates references and examples designed to remain relevant over extended periods of time. Online delivery of the content, combined with live, face-to-face instruction, provides the Company with rapid user feedback that it uses to make ongoing corrections, modifications and improvements to the course content. The Company s clients retain all intellectual property rights to the developed content, although the Company retains the rights to the content packaging and delivery mechanisms. 8 Much of the Company s new content development uses proven delivery platforms and is therefore primarily subject-specific in nature. As a result, a significant portion of content development costs qualify for capitalization due to the focus of the Company s development efforts on the unique subject matter of the content. Similar to on-campus programs offered by the Company s clients, the online degree programs enabled by the Company offer numerous courses for each degree. The Company therefore capitalizes its development costs on a course-by-course basis. As students must matriculate into a client program in order to take a course, revenues and identifiable cash flows are also measured at the client program level. The Company develops content on a course-by-course basis in conjunction with the faculty for each client program. The clients and their faculty generally provide course outlines in the form of the curriculum, required textbooks, case studies and other reading materials, as well as presentations that are typically used in the on-campus setting. The Company is then responsible for, and incurs all of the expenses related to, the conversion of the materials provided by each client into a format suitable for delivery through Online Campus. The content development costs that qualify for capitalization are third-party direct costs, such as videography, editing and other services associated with creating digital content. Additionally, the Company capitalizes internal payroll and payroll-related costs incurred to create and produce videos and other digital content utilized in the clients programs for delivery via Online Campus. Capitalization ends when content has been fully developed by both the Company and the client, at which time amortization of the capitalized content development costs begins. The capitalized costs are recorded on a course-by-course basis and included in capitalized content costs on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. These costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the respective capitalized content program, which is generally five years. The estimated useful life corresponds with the Company s planned curriculum refresh rate. This refresh rate is consistent with expected curriculum refresh rates as cited by program faculty members for similar on-campus programs. It is reasonably possible that developed content could be refreshed before the estimated useful lives are complete or be expensed immediately in the event that the development of a course is discontinued prior to launch. Evaluation of Long-Lived Assets The Company reviews long-lived assets, which consist of property and equipment, capitalized technology costs, capitalized content development costs and acquired finite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of a long-lived asset is measured by a comparison of the carrying value of an asset or asset group to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by that asset or asset group. If such assets are not recoverable, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of an asset exceeds the estimated fair value (discounted cash flow) of the asset or asset group. In order to assess the recoverability of the capitalized content development costs, the costs are grouped by program, which is the lowest level of independent cash flows. The Company s impairment analysis is based upon forecasted financial and operational results. The actual results could vary from the Company s forecasts, especially in relation to recently launched programs. For the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, no impairment of long-lived assets was deemed to have occurred. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following conditions are met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)rendering of services is complete, (iii)fees are fixed or determinable and (iv)collection of fees is reasonably assured. The Company primarily derives its revenue from long-term contracts that typically range from 10 to 15years in length. Under these contracts, the Company enables access to its Platform to its clients and their faculty and students. The Company is entitled to a contractually specified percentage of net program proceeds from its clients. These net program proceeds represent gross proceeds billed by clients to students, less credit card fees and other specified charges the Company has agreed to exclude in certain of its client contracts. The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from multiple-deliverable contractual arrangements with its clients. Under each of these arrangements, the Company provides (i)access to Online Campus, which serves as a learning platform for its client s faculty and students and which also enables a comprehensive range of other client functions, (ii)access to operations applications which provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management, and other functionality necessary to effectively operate the Company s clients programs and (iii)technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. 9 In order to treat deliverables in a multiple-deliverable contractual arrangement as separate units of accounting, deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. The technology-enabled services within the Platform are provided primarily in support of programs delivered through Online Campus, and for students of the programs delivered through Online Campus. Accordingly, the Company has determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, deliverables within the Company s multiple-deliverable arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Therefore, the Company considers all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting and recognizes revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. Advance payments are recorded as deferred revenue until services are delivered or obligations are met, at which time revenue is recognized. Deferred revenue as of a particular balance sheet date represents the excess of amounts received as compared to amounts recognized in revenue in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as of the end of the reporting period, and such amounts are reflected as a current liability on the Company s condensed consolidated balance sheets. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation awards based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For awards subject to service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the awards requisite service period, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. For awards subject to both performance and service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense using an accelerated recognition method when it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. See Note7 for a summary of assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock options. Comprehensive Loss The Company s net loss equals comprehensive loss for all periods presented as the Company has no material components of other comprehensive income. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No.2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation . The ASU simplifies various aspects related to the accounting and presentation of share-based payments. The guidance also allows employers to withhold shares to satisfy minimum statutory withholding requirements up to the employees maximum individual tax rate without causing the award to be classified as a liability. Additionally, the guidance stipulates that cash paid by an employer to a taxing authority when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period, with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases. The ASU introduces a model for lessees requiring most leases to be reported on the balance sheet. Lessor accounting remains substantially similar to current U.S. GAAP. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In November2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes. The ASU eliminates the requirement to classify deferred tax assets and liabilities between current and noncurrent. The ASU requires classification of all deferred tax asset and liability balances as noncurrent. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. Adoption of the ASU is either retrospective to each prior period presented, or prospective. As of December31, 2015, the Company early adopted the ASU prospectively. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In April2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-05,Intangibles Goodwill and Other Internal-Use Software. The ASU provides guidance to customers in a cloud computing arrangement to determine whether the arrangement includes a software license. When a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, the customer is required to account for the license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. 10 In April2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-03,Interest Imputation of Interest. The ASU simplifies the presentation of debt issuance costs by requiring that such costs be presented in the consolidated balance sheets as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the associated debt instrument, consistent with debt discounts. Subsequent to the issuance of this ASU, the SEC staff announced that the presentation of debt issuance costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements may be presented as an asset. This announcement was codified by the FASB in ASU 2015-15. The amendments in these ASUs are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In January2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-01, Income Statement Extraordinary and Unusual Items . The ASU simplifies income statement presentation by eliminating the concept of extraordinary items. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In August2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15,Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The ASU requires that an entity s management evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entity s ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods ending afterDecember15, 2016. The Company does not expect the new standard to have a significant impact on its reporting process. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S.GAAP when it becomes effective. In July2015, the FASB deferred the mandatory effective date of this ASU by one year from January1, 2017 to January1, 2018. Early application is permitted, but not prior to the original effective date of January1, 2017. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. 3. Property and Equipment Property and equipment consisted of the following as of: Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment was $0.4million and $0.3 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment was $0.8million and $0.5 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of June30, 2016, the estimated future depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment placed in service is as follows (in thousands): 11 4. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs Capitalized technology and content development costs consisted of the following as of: Amortization expense related to capitalized technology was $0.5 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Amortization expense related to capitalized technology was $1.0 million and $0.8 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. This expense is included in technology and content development costs in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company re corded amortization expense related to capitalized content development costs of $1.4 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company recorded amortization expense related to capitalized content development costs of $2.6 million and $2.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of June30, 2016, the estimated future amortization expense for the capitalized technology and content development costs placed in service is as follows (in thousands): 5. Commitments and Contingencies Line of Credit On December31, 2013, the Company entered into a credit agreement for a revolving line of credit with an aggregate borrowing commitment not to exceed $37.0 million. On December31, 2015, the Company amended this credit agreement to reduce the aggregate amount it may borrow to $25.0 million and on July26, 2016, the Company amended this credit agreement to extend the maturity date through October1, 2016. No amounts were outstanding as of June30, 2016 or December31, 2015. In connection with the Company entering into an operating lease agreement on December23, 2015, to lease its new office facility in Lanham, Maryland, the Company entered into a standby letter of credit on January22, 2016 in the amount of $6.0 million as a security deposit for the new leased facilities. In connection with the Company entering into an operating lease agreement on May11, 2016, to lease its new office facility in Denver, Colorado, the Company entered into a standby letter of credit on June 14, 2016 in the 12 amount of $1.1 million as a security deposit for the new leased facilities. These letters of credit reduced the aggregate amount the Company may borrow under its revolving line of credit to $17.9 million. Under this revolving line of credit, the Company has the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, the Company may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, the Company makes interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if such borrowed amounts are repaid before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of the Company s assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that the Company achieves specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, the Company is required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company s adjusted quick ratio was 7.95 and 7.90, respectively. The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on the Company s ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in its assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with affiliates, amend or modify the terms of material contracts, or change its fiscal year. If the Company is not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or it otherwise experiences an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If the Company fails to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets pledged as collateral under the line of credit. The Company is currently in compliance with all such covenants. Legal Contingencies From time to time, the Company may become involved in legal proceedings or other contingencies in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is not presently involved in any legal proceeding or other contingency that, if determined adversely to it, would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that a material loss exceeding amounts already recognized may have been incurred as of the date of the balance sheets presented herein. Program Marketing and Sales Commitments Certain of the agreements entered into between the Company and its clients require the Company to commit to meet certain staffing and spending investment thresholds related to program marketing and sales activities. In addition, certain of the agreements require the Company to invest up to agreed-upon levels in marketing the programs to achieve specified program performance. The Company believes it is currently in compliance with all such commitments. Operating Leases The Company leases office facilities under non-cancelable operating leases in Maryland, New York, California, Colorado, North Carolina, Virginia and Hong Kong. The Company also leases office equipment under non-cancelable leases. As of June30, 2016, the future minimum lease payments (net of aggregate expected sublease payments of $0.2million) were as follows (in thousands): The future minimum lease payments due under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements contain fixed rent increases over the term of the lease. Rent expense on these operating leases is recognized over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. The excess of rent expense over future minimum lease payments due has been reported in non-current liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The deferred rent liability related to these leases totaled $0.7million and $0.6 million as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. 13 Total rent expense from non-cancelable operating lease agreements was $1.1 million (net of sublease income of $0.1 million) for the three months ended June30, 2016, and $0.8 million (net of sublease income of $0.1 million) for the three months ended June30, 2015. Total rent expense from non-cancelable operating lease agreements was $2.1 million (net of sublease income of $0.1 million) for the six months ended June30, 2016, and $1.4 million (net of sublease income of $0.1 million) for the six months ended June30, 2015. Fixed Payments to Clients The Company is contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of its clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. Currently, the future minimum fixed payments to the Company s clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights were as follows (in thousands): Contingent Payments to Clients The Company has entered into specific program agreements under which it would be obligated to make future minimum program payments to a client in the event that certain program metrics, partially associated with programs not yet launched, are not achieved. Due to the dependency of these calculations on future program launches, the amounts of any associated contingent payments cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As the Company cannot reasonably estimate the amounts of the contingent payments, and because it believes any contingent payments under this agreement would likely be immaterial, the Company has excluded such payments from the table above. 6. Stockholders Equity As of June30, 2016, the Company was authorized to issue 205,000,000 total shares of capital stock, consisting of 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At June30, 2016, the Company had reserved a total of 9,856,900 of its authorized shares of common stock for future issuance as follows: The compensation committee of the Company s board of directors, acting under authority delegated from the board of directors, granted on July1, 2016 option awards to employees and an independent director to purchase an aggregate of 8,914 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $29.53 and restricted stock unit awards for an aggregate of 21,260 shares of common stock, in each case under the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (as defined in Note 7 below). 7. Stock-Based Compensation The Company provides equity-based compensation awards to employees, independent contractors and directors as an effective means for attracting, retaining and motivating such individuals. The Company maintains two share-based compensation plans: the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan ) and the 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2008 Plan ). Upon the effective date of the 2014 Plan in January2014, the Company ceased using the 2008 Plan to grant new equity awards and began using the 2014 Plan for grants of new equity awards. The number of shares of the Company s common stock that may be issued under the 2014 Plan will automatically increase on January1stof each year, for a period of ten years, from January1, 2015 continuing through January1, 2024, by 5% of the total number of shares of the Company s common stock outstanding on December31stof the preceding calendar year, or a lesser number of shares as may be determined by the Company s board of directors. The shares available for issuance increased by 2,288,820 and 2,036,503 on January1, 2016 and 2015, respectively, pursuant to the automatic share reserve increase provision under the 2014 Plan. 14 Stock-Based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards is included in the following line items in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations: Stock Options The following table summarizes the assumptions used for estimating the fair value of the stock options granted for the periods presented. The following is a summary of the stock option activity for the six months ended June30, 2016: The total compensation cost related to the nonvested options not yet recognized as of June30, 2016 was $14.3million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.3years. The aggregate intrinsic value of the options exercised during the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 was $10.5million and $14.0million, respectively. Restricted Stock Units The following is a summary of restricted stock unit activity for the three months ended June30, 2016: 15 The total compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted stock units not yet recognized as of June30, 2016 was $22.5million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.8years. 8. Net Loss per Share Diluted net loss per share is the same as basic net loss per share for all periods presented because the effects of potentially dilutive items were anti-dilutive, given the Company s net loss. The following securities have been excluded from the calculation of weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding because the effect is anti-dilutive for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015: Basic and diluted net loss per share is calculated as follows: 9. Segment and Geographic Information Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which discrete financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. The Company s CODM reviews the financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. As such, the Company s operations constitute a single operating segment and one reportable segment. The Company offers similar services to substantially all of its clients, which primarily represent well-recognized nonprofit colleges and universities in the United States. Substantially all assets were held and all revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented. Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. Certain statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ), as amended. The words or phrases would be, will allow, intends to, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project, or similar expressions, or the negative of such words or phrases, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Because such statements include risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause or contribute to these differences, including those discussed in PartI,Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Statements made herein are as of the date of the filing of this Form10-Q with the SEC and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake, and we specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. 16 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December31, 2015, which are included in our Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on March10, 2016. Overview We are a leading provider of an integrated solution comprised of cloud-based software-as-a-service, or SaaS, technology fused with technology-enabled services, which we refer to as our Platform. Our Platform enables leading nonprofit colleges and universities to deliver their high-quality education to qualified students anywhere. Our SaaS technology consists of an innovative online learning environment, which we refer to as Online Campus, and our operations applications. This technology is fused with technology-enabled services, to complete our Platform. Our Platform allows our clients programs to expand and operate at scale, providing the comprehensive infrastructure colleges and universities need to attract, enroll, educate, support and graduate their students. By leveraging our Platform, we believe our clients are able to expand their addressable markets while providing educational engagement, experiences and outcomes to their online students that match or exceed those of their on-campus offerings. Our Business Model The key elements of our business model are described below. Revenue Drivers and Predictability Substantially all of our revenue is derived from revenue-share arrangements with our clients, under which we receive a contractually specified percentage of the amounts students pay them in tuition and other fees. Accordingly, the primary driver of our revenue growth is the increase in the number of student course enrollments in our clients programs. This in turn is influenced primarily by three factors: our ability to increase the number of programs offered by our clients, either by adding new clients or by expanding the number of client programs; our ability to identify and acquire prospective students for our clients programs; and our ability, and that of our clients, to retain the students who enroll in their programs. In the near term, we expect the primary drivers of our financial results to continue to be our two programs with the University of Southern California, which are our longest running programs, which we launched in 2009 and 2010. For the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, 36% and 45%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from these two programs, while for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, 37% and 48%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from these two programs. We expect the University of Southern California will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue even though that portion will likely continue to decline as other client programs become more mature and achieve higher enrollment levels. A significant percentage of our revenue in any period is related to students returning to our clients programs after their first academic term. We believe this contributes to the predictability and recurring nature of our business. Program Marketing and Sales Expense Our most significant expense in each fiscal period has been program marketing and sales expense, which relates primarily to student acquisition activities. We do not spend significant amounts on new client or program acquisition and we do not maintain a sales force targeted at potential new clients or programs since our model is not dependent on launching a large number of new programs per year, either with new or existing clients. Instead, our new clients and programs are largely generated through a direct approach by our senior management to selected colleges and universities. We have primary responsibility for identifying qualified students for our clients programs, generating potential student interest in the programs and driving applications to the programs. While our clients make all admissions decisions, the number of students who enroll in our clients programs in any given period is significantly dependent on the amount we have spent on these student acquisition activities in prior periods. Accordingly, although most of our clients programs span multiple academic terms and, therefore, generate continued revenue beyond the term in which initial enrollments occur, we expect that we will need to continue to incur significant 17 program marketing and sales expense for existing programs going forward to generate a continuous pipeline of new enrollments. For new programs, we begin incurring program marketing and sales costs as early as nine months prior to the start of a new client program. We typically identify prospective students for our clients programs between three months and two or more years before they ultimately enroll. For the students currently enrolled in our clients programs and those who have graduated, the average time from our initial prospective student acquisition to initial enrollment was seven months. For the students who have graduated from these programs, the average time from initial enrollment to graduation was 22months. Based on the student retention rates and patterns we have observed in our clients programs, we estimate that, for our current programs, the average time from a student s initial enrollment to graduation will be approximately twoyears. Accordingly, our program marketing and sales expense in any period is an investment we make to generate revenue in future periods. Likewise, revenue generated in any period is largely attributable to the investment made in student acquisition activities in earlier periods. Because program marketing and sales expense in any period is almost entirely unrelated to revenue generated in that period, we do not believe it is meaningful to directly compare the two. We believe that the total revenue we will receive in the future from students who enroll in our clients programs as a result of current period program marketing and sales expense will be significantly greater as a multiple of that expense than is implied by the multiple of current period revenue to current period program marketing and sales expense. Further, we believe that our program marketing and sales expense in future periods will generally decline as a percentage of the revenue reported in those same periods as our revenue base from returning students in existing programs increases. We continually manage our program marketing and sales expense to ensure that across our portfolio of client programs, our cost to acquire students for these programs is appropriate for our business model. We use a ratio of attrition adjusted lifetime revenue of a student, or LTR, to the total cost to acquire that student, or TCA, as the measure of our marketing efficiency and to determine how much we are willing to spend to acquire an additional student for any program. The calculations included in this ratio include certain assumptions. For any period, we know what we spent on program sales and marketing and therefore, can accurately calculate the ratio s denominator. However, given the time lag between when we incur our program marketing and sales expense and when we receive revenue related to students enrolled based on that expense, we have to incorporate forecasts of student enrollments and retention into our calculation of the ratio s numerator, which is our estimate of future revenue related to that period s expense. We use the significant amount of data we have on the effectiveness of various marketing channels, student attrition and other factors to inform our forecasts and are continually testing the assumptions underlying these forecasts against actual results to give us confidence that our forecasts are reasonable. The LTR to TCA ratio may vary from program to program depending on the degree being offered, where that program is in its lifecycle and whether we enable the same or similar degrees at other universities. Period-to-Period Fluctuations Our revenue, cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to variations driven by the academic schedules of our clients programs. These programs generally start classes for new and returning students an average of four times per year. Classstarts are not necessarily evenly spaced throughout the year, do not necessarily correspond to the traditional academic calendar and may vary from year to year. As a result, the number of classes our client programs have in session, and therefore the number of students enrolled, will vary from month to month and quarter to quarter, leading to variability in our revenue. Our clients programs often have academic terms that straddle two fiscal quarters. Our clients generally pay us when they have billed tuition and specified fees to their students, which is typically early in the academic term, and once the drop/add period has passed. We recognize the related revenue ratably over the course of the academic term, beginning on the first day of classes through the last. Because we generally receive payments from our clients prior to our ability to recognize the majority of those amounts as revenue, we record deferred revenue at each balance sheet date equal to the excess of the amounts we have billed or received from our clients over the amounts we have recognized as revenue as of that date. For these reasons, our cash flows typically vary considerably from quarter to quarter and our cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue typically fluctuate between quarterly balance sheet dates. Our expense levels also fluctuate from quarter to quarter, driven primarily by our program marketing and sales activity. We typically reduce our paid search and other program marketing and sales efforts during late Novemberand Decemberbecause these efforts are less productive during the holiday season. This generally results in lower total program marketing and sales expense during the fourth quarter. In addition, because we begin spending on program marketing and sales, and, to a lesser extent, services and support as much as nine months prior to the start of classes for a new client program, these costs as a percentage of revenue fluctuate, sometimes significantly, depending on the timing of new client programs and anticipated program launch dates. 18 Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations Second Quarter 2016 Highlights Revenue was $49.1 million, an increase of 39.4% from $35.2 million in the second quarter of 2015. Net loss was $(8.3) million, or $(0.18) per share, compared to $(9.6) million or $(0.23) per share, in the second quarter of 2015. Adjusted EBITDA loss was $(2.1) million, compared to an adjusted EBITDA loss of $(4.0) million in the second quarter of 2015. Revenue Substantially all of our revenue consists of a contractually specified percentage of the amounts our clients bill to their students for tuition and fees, less credit card fees and other specified charges we have agreed to exclude in certain of our client contracts, which we refer to as net program proceeds. Most of our contracts have 10 to 15 year initial terms. We recognize revenue ratably over the service period, which we define as the first through the last day of classes for each academic term in a client s program. We establish a refund allowance for our share of tuition and fees ultimately uncollected by our clients. We also offered rebates to a limited group of students who enrolled in a specific client program between 2009 and 2011, which we will be required to pay to such students if they complete their degrees and pre-specified, post-graduation work requirements within a defined period of time after graduation. For students in this group who are still enrolled in the program, we accrue the rebate liability as they continue through the program towards graduation. In addition, all students in this group are required to certify to us each Septemberas to their continuing eligibility for these rebates. For those students who do not make such certification and are therefore no longer eligible for the rebate, because, for example, they have failed to meet their post-graduation work requirements, we reduce the allowance accordingly at that time. As of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015, 85 and 81 students, respectively, remained eligible to receive these rebates. These rebates and refunds offset the net program proceeds that we recognize as revenue. In addition to providing access to the SaaS technology within our Platform, we provide technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities and facilitating in-program field placements. We have determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, the multiple deliverables within our arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Accordingly, we consider all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting, and we recognize revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. We generally receive payments from our clients early in each academic term, prior to completion of the service period. We record these advance payments as deferred revenue until the services are delivered or until our obligations are otherwise met, at which time we recognize the revenue. As of each balance sheet date, deferred revenue is a current liability and represents the excess amounts we have billed or received over the amounts we have recognized as revenue in the consolidated statements of operations as of that date. The components of revenue for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: * Not meaningful for comparison purposes. 19 Revenue . Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $49.1 million, an increase of $13.9 million, or 39.4%, from $35.2 million for the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to a 38.8% increase in period-over-period full course equivalent enrollments in our client programs, from 13,557 for the three months ended June 30, 2015 to 18,823 for the three months ended June 30, 2016. Of the increase in full course equivalent enrollments, 635, or 12.1%, were attributable to client programs launched during the 12 months ended June 30, 2016. The components of revenue for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: * Not meaningful for comparison purposes. Revenue . Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $96.5 million, an increase of $26.6 million, or 38.2%, from $69.9 million for the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to a 37.1% increase in period-over-period full course equivalent enrollments in our client programs, from 26,649 for the six months ended June 30, 2015 to 36,532 for the six months ended June 30, 2016. Of the increase in full course equivalent enrollments, 1,045, or 10.6%, were attributable to client programs launched during the 12 months ended June 30, 2016. Costs and Expenses Costs and expenses consist of servicing and support costs, technology and content development costs, program marketing and sales expenses and general and administrative expenses. To support our anticipated growth, we expect to continue to hire new employees (which will increase both our cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs), increase our program promotion and student acquisition efforts, expand our technology infrastructure and increase our other program support capabilities. As a result, we expect our costs and expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we achieve economies of scale through the expansion of our business. Servicing and support. Servicing and support expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs related to program management and operations, as well as costs for technical support for our SaaS technology and faculty and student support. It includes costs to facilitate in-program field placements, student immersions and other student enrichment experiences and costs to assist our clients with their state compliance requirements. It also includes software licensing, telecommunications and other costs to provide access to the SaaS technology within our Platform for our clients and their students. Technology and content development. Technology and content development expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation and outsourced services costs related to the ongoing improvement and maintenance of the SaaS technology within our Platform and the developed content for our client programs. It also includes the costs to support our internal infrastructure, including our cloud-based server usage. Additionally, it includes the associated amortization expense related to capitalized technology and content development costs, as well as hosting and other costs associated with maintaining the SaaS technology within our Platform in a cloud environment. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense consists primarily of costs related to student acquisition. This includes the cost of online advertising and prospective student generation, as well as cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for our program marketing, search engine optimization, marketing analytics and admissions application counseling personnel. We expense all costs related to program marketing and sales as they are incurred. General and administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for employees in our executive, administrative, finance and accounting, legal, communications and human resources functions. Additional expenses include external legal, accounting and other professional fees, telecommunications charges and other corporate costs such as insurance and travel that are not related to another function. 20 The costs and expenses for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Servicing and support. Servicing and support costs for the three months ended June 30, 2016 were $10.3 million, an increase of $2.4 million, or 29.8%, from $7.9 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $1.4 million increase in cash compensation costs, a $0.3 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs and a $0.3 million increase in travel and related expenses as we increased our headcount in this area by 23% to serve a growing number of students and faculty in existing and new client programs. Additionally, other servicing and support costs increased $0.4 million. As a percentage of revenue, servicing and support costs decreased from 22.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 to 20.9% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Technology and content development. Technology and content development costs for the three months ended June 30, 2016 were $8.8 million, an increase of $2.4 million, or 36.7%, from $6.4 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $0.5 million increase in cash compensation costs (net of amounts capitalized for technology and content development), a $0.2 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs, a $0.3 million increase in employee technology equipment expenditures and a $0.2 million increase in travel and related expenses as we increased our headcount in this area by 27% to support scaling of existing client programs. Further, an increase of $0.5 million was attributable to upgrades to our Platform and an increase of $0.5 million resulted from higher amortization expense associated with our capitalized technology and content development costs, primarily as a result of an increase in the number of courses that have been developed for our client programs, while other technology and content development expense increased by $0.2 million. As a percentage of revenue, technology and content development costs decreased from 18.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 to 18.0% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $27.5 million, an increase of $6.0 million, or 27.7%, from $21.5 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $2.1 million increase in cash compensation costs, a $0.1 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs and a $0.5 million increase in travel and related expenses as we increased our headcount in this area by 19% to acquire students for, and drive revenue growth in, new client programs. Additionally, direct internet marketing costs to acquire students for our clients programs increased by $2.6 million, and other program marketing and sales expenses increased by $0.7 million to support our program marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, program marketing and sales expense decreased from 61.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 to 55.9% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. General and administrative. General and administrative expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $10.9 million, an increase of $2.0 million, or 23.4%, from $8.9 million for the same period of 2015. This was due primarily to a $1.3 million increase in cash compensation costs and a $0.3 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs as we increased in our headcount in this area by 28% to support our growing business. Further, employee education benefits increased by $0.7 million, costs associated with the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system integration increased $0.5 million, while other general and administrative costs increased by $0.2 million. These increases were partially offset by a $1.0 million signing bonus of a key executive in June 2015, which consisted of cash and a common stock award signing bonus. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expense decreased from 25.2% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 to 22.3% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is a component of compensation cost within each of the four cost and expense categories described above. In early 2014, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved a framework for granting equity awards under our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan. Under this framework, the majority of our equity awards are made on or around April1 21 of each year and typically have four-year vesting periods. As such, non-cash stock-based compensation expense is expected to continue to increase year-over-year until four years after the initial mid-2014 grants. The costs and expenses for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Servicing and support. Servicing and support costs for the six months ended June 30, 2016 were $19.8 million, an increase of $4.4 million, or 27.9%, from $15.4 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $2.6 million increase in cash compensation costs, a $0.6 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs and a $0.6 million increase in travel and related expenses as we increased our headcount in this area by 32% to serve a growing number of students and faculty in existing and new client programs. Additionally, other servicing and support costs increased $0.6 million. As a percentage of revenue, servicing and support costs decreased from 22.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2015 to 20.5% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Technology and content development. Technology and content development costs for the six months ended June 30, 2016 were $16.1 million, an increase of $3.5 million, or 27.9%, from $12.6 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $1.1 million increase in cash compensation costs (net of amounts capitalized for technology and content development), a $0.4 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs, a $0.4 million increase in employee technology equipment expenditures and a $0.3 million increase in travel and related expenses, as we increased our headcount in this area by 34% to support scaling of existing client programs. Further, an increase of $0.8 million resulted from higher amortization expense associated with our capitalized technology and content development costs, primarily as a result of an increase in the number of courses that have been developed for our client programs. Additionally, costs related to our cloud-based server usage increased by $0.1 million, while other technology and content development expense increased by $0.4 million. As a percentage of revenue, technology and content development costs decreased from 18.0% for the six months ended June 30, 2015 to 16.7% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $51.1 million, an increase of $10.0 million, or 24.4%, from $41.1 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $3.9 million increase in cash compensation costs, a $0.2 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs and a $0.5 million increase in travel and related expenses as we increased our headcount in this area by 21% to acquire students for, and drive revenue growth in, new client programs. Additionally, direct internet marketing costs to acquire students for our clients programs increased by $4.2 million, and other program marketing and sales expenses increased by $1.2 million to support our program marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, program marketing and sales expense decreased from 58.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2015 to 52.9% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. General and administrative. General and administrative expense for the six months ended June 30, 2016 was $21.4 million, an increase of $5.8 million, or 37.3%, from $15.6 million for the same period of 2015. This was due primarily to a $2.3 million increase in cash compensation costs and a $1.2 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs as we increased in our headcount in this area by 35% to support our growing business. Further, employee education benefits increased by $1.2 million, costs associated with the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system integration increased $1.0 million, accounting services primarily related to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and other professional fees increased by $0.4 million, while other general and administrative costs increased by $0.7 million. These increases were partially offset by a $1.0 million signing bonus of a key executive in June 2015, which consisted of cash and a common stock award signing bonus. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expense decreased from 22.3% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 to 22.2% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. 22 Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists of interest income, interest expense and other expenses. Interest income is derived from interest received on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense consists primarily of the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our line of credit. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Income tax expense consists of U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes. To date, we have not been required to pay U.S. federal income taxes because of our current and accumulated net operating losses. We incurred immaterial state and foreign income tax liabilities for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015. Key Business and Financial Performance Metrics We use a number of key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. In addition to adjusted EBITDA, which we discuss below, we discuss revenue and the components of operating loss in the section above entitled Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations. Additionally, we utilize other key metrics to evaluate the success of our growth strategy, including measures we refer to as Platform revenue retention rate and full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs. Platform Revenue Retention Rate We measure our Platform revenue retention rate for a particular period by first identifying the group of programs that our clients launched before the beginning of the prior year comparative period. We then calculate our Platform revenue retention rate by comparing the revenue we recognized for this group of programs in the reporting period to the revenue we recognized for the same group of programs in the prior year comparative period, expressed as a percentage of the revenue we recognized for the group in the prior year comparative period. The following table sets forth our Platform revenue retention rate for the periods presented, as well as the number of programs included in the Platform revenue retention rate calculation. For all of these periods, our Platform revenue retention rate was greater than 100% because we had no programs terminate and full course equivalent enrollments in the aggregate increased year-over-year. There is no direct correlation between the Platform revenue retention rate and the number of programs included in the calculation of that rate. However, there may be a correlation between the Platform revenue retention rate and the average maturity of the programs included in the calculation of that rate because newer programs tend to have higher percentage growth rates. (1) Reflects the number of programs operating both in the reported period and in the prior year comparative period. Full Course Equivalent Enrollments in Our Clients Programs We measure full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs by determining, for each of the courses offered during a particular period, the number of students enrolled in that course multiplied by the percentage of the course completed during that period. We use this metric to account for the fact that many courses offered by our clients straddle two or more fiscal quarters. For example, if a course had 25 enrolled students and 40% of the course was completed during a particular period, we would count the course as having 10 full course equivalent enrollments for that period. Any individual student may be enrolled in more than one course during a period. Average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment represents our weighted-average revenue per course across the mix of courses being offered in our client programs during a period. This number is derived by dividing our total revenue for a period by the number of full course equivalent enrollments during that same period. This amount may vary from period to period depending on the academic calendars of our clients, the relative growth rates of programs with varying tuition levels, the launch of new programs with higher or lower than average net tuition costs and annual tuition increases instituted by our clients. As a part of our growth strategy, we are actively targeting new graduate-level clients in academic disciplines for which we have existing programs. Over time, this strategy is 23 likely to reduce our average revenue per full course equivalent. However, we believe this approach will enable us to leverage our program marketing investments across multiple client programs within specific academic disciplines, significantly decreasing student acquisition costs within those disciplines and more than offsetting any decline in average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment. The following table sets forth the full course equivalent enrollments and average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment in our clients programs for the periods presented. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA represents our earnings before net interest (income) expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted to eliminate stock-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash item. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S.GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with U.S.GAAP. In addition, adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we do. We prepare adjusted EBITDA to eliminate the impact of stock-based compensation expense, which we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. Our use of adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S.GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other U.S.GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other U.S. GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated. 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity On December31, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Comerica Bank for a revolving line of credit, under which we could borrow up to $37.0million from a syndicate of lenders including Comerica Bank and Square 1 Bank, with a maturity date of December31, 2015. On December 31, 2015, we amended this credit agreement to reduce the aggregate amount we may borrow to $25.0 million and on July 26, 2016, we amended this credit agreement to extend the maturity date through October 1, 2016. No amounts were outstanding as of June 30, 2016 or December 31, 2015. In connection with entering into an operating lease agreement on December23, 2015, to lease our new office facility in Lanham, Maryland, we entered into a standby letter of credit on January22, 2016 in the amount of $6.0 million as a security deposit for the new leased facilities. In connection with entering into an operating lease agreement on May11, 2016, to lease new office space in Denver, Colorado, we entered into a standby letter of credit on June 14, 2016 in the amount of $1.1 million as a security deposit for the new leased facilities. These letters of credit reduced the aggregate amount we may borrow under our revolving line of credit to $17.9 million. Under this revolving line of credit, we have the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, we may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, we may make interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if we repay such borrowed amounts before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to our compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that we achieve specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some of our client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures our short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015, our adjusted quick ratios were 7.95 and 7.90, respectively. The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in our assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with our affiliates, amend or modify the terms of our material contracts, or change our fiscal year. If we are not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or we otherwise experience an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If we fail to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets we have pledged as collateral under the line of credit. We are currently in compliance with all such covenants. 25 Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented. Operating Activities For the six months ended June30, 2016, net cash provided by operating activities of $11.5million consisted of $12.0million in non-cash items and an $11.2million net cash inflow from changes in working capital, partially offset by a net loss of $11.7 million. Non-cash ite ms consisted of non-cash stock-based compensation charges of $7.5 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $4.5 million. The increase in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of a $15.0 million increase in deferred revenue and a $4.8 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities. These increases were partially offset by a $4.3 million increase in accounts receivable, a $3.4 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits and other changes in working capital of $0.9 million. For the six months ended June30, 2015, net cash provided by operating activities was $6.0million, consisting of an $11.8million net cash inflow from changes in working capital and $9.3million in non-cash items, partially offset by a net loss of $15.1million. The increase in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of increases in deferred revenue of $11.5 million and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $8.1 million due to higher accrued program marketing costs. These increases in cash were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable of $4.0 million, a $1.5 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits, a $1.4 million increase in other assets and other liabilities and other changes in working capital of $0.9 million. Non-cash items consisted of non-cash stock compensation charges of $5.9 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $3.4 million. Investing Activities For the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015, net cash used in investing activities was $8.6million and $6.5 million, respectively. These expenditures were primarily for the development of internal-use software and asynchronous content developed for client programs, and equipment. Financing Activities For the six months ended June30, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.6million, consisting of $2.1 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.5 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock units. For the six months ended June30, 2015, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.8million, consisting of $2.2 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.4 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock units. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have non-cancelable operating leases for our office space, and we are also contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of our university clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. We have a $25.0million line of credit from Comerica Bank and no amounts were outstanding as of June30, 2016. See Note5 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 and Legal Proceedings contained in PartII,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for additional information regarding contingencies. 26 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note2 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for a discussion of FASB s recent accounting pronouncements and their effect on us.Item 1. Financial Statements 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity (unaudited, in thousands, except share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 2U,Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of the Business 2U,Inc. (the Company ) was incorporated as 2TorInc. in the State of Delaware in April2008 and changed its name to 2U,Inc. on October11, 2012. Under long-term agreements, the Company provides an integrated solution comprised of cloud-based software-as-a-service ( SaaS ), fused with technology-enabled services (together, the Platform ), that allows leading colleges and universities to deliver high-quality online degree programs, extending the universities reach and distinguishing their brands. The Company s SaaS technology consists of (i)a comprehensive learning environment ( Online Campus ), which acts as the hub for all student and faculty academic and social interaction, and (ii)operations applications, which provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management and other functionality necessary to effectively operate the Company s clients programs. The Company also provides a suite of technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( U.S.GAAP ) and include the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheets, condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and the notes thereto have been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. Specifically, capitalized technology costs have been reclassified out of property and equipment and have been combined with capitalized content development costs. Also, prior period working capital amounts in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified within operating activities. None of these reclassifications had any impact on total assets, net cash used in operating activities or investing activities previously reported for any periods presented. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Information The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company has condensed or omitted certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of management, the interim financial information includes all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation of financial position, the results of operations, changes in stockholders equity and cash flows, and the disclosures made herein are adequate to prevent the information presented from being misleading. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year ending December31, 2016 or the results for any future periods. These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December31, 2015, which are included in the Company s Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) on March10, 2016. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S.GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to the useful lives of long-lived assets, fair value measurements and income taxes, among others. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on 7 various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be affected by changes in those estimates. The Company evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All of the Company s cash is held at financial institutions that management believes to be of high credit quality. The Company s bank accounts exceed federally insured limits at times. The Company has not experienced any losses on cash to date. To manage accounts receivable risk, the Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, if needed. During the three months ended September30, 2016, three clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $18.4 million, $8.7 million and $5.5 million, which equals 35%, 17% and 11% of total revenue, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2015, three clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $15.9 million, $5.7 million and $4.3 million, which equals 43%, 15% and 12% of total revenue, respectively. During the nine months ended September30, 2016, three clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $53.9 million, $25.5 million and $15.8 million, which equals 36%, 17% and 11% of total revenue, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015, four clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $49.2 million, $16.0 million, $12.7 million and $10.1 million, which equals 46%, 15%, 12% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. Additionally, as of September30, 2016, four clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s accounts receivable balance, as follows: $8.2 million, $5.1 million, $2.6 million and $2.5 million, which equals 39%, 24%, 12% and 12% of total accounts receivable, respectively. As of December31, 2015, two clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s accounts receivable balance, as follows: $0.2 million and $0.1 million, which equals 18% and 7% of total accounts receivable, respectively. Long-Lived Assets Property and Equipment Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for major additions, construction and improvements are capitalized. Depreciation and amortization is expensed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from three to five years for computer hardware and five to seven years for furniture and office equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated useful life of the improvement, which ranges from four to ten years. Useful lives of significant assets are periodically reviewed and adjusted prospectively to reflect the Company s current estimates of the respective assets expected utility. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to internal-use software, primarily consisting of direct labor associated with creating the software. Software development projects generally include three stages: the preliminary project stage (all costs are expensed as incurred), the application development stage (certain costs are capitalized and certain costs are expensed as incurred) and the post-implementation/operation stage (all costs are expensed as incurred). Costs capitalized in the application development stage include costs of designing the application, coding, integrating the Company s and the university s networks and systems, and the testing of the software. Capitalization of costs requires judgment in determining when a project has reached the application development stage and the period over which the Company expects to benefit from the use of that software. Once the software is placed in service, these costs are amortized on the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which is generally three years. The Company works with each client s faculty members to develop and maintain educational content that is delivered to their students through Online Campus. The online content developed jointly by the Company and its clients consists of subjects chosen and taught by clients faculty members and incorporates references and examples designed to remain relevant over extended periods of time. Online delivery of the content, combined with live, face-to-face instruction, provides the Company with rapid user feedback that it uses to make ongoing corrections, modifications and improvements to the course content. The Company s clients retain all intellectual property rights to the developed content, although the Company retains the rights to the content packaging and delivery mechanisms. Much of the Company s new content development uses proven delivery platforms and is therefore primarily subject-specific in nature. As a result, a significant portion of content development costs qualify for capitalization due to the focus of the Company s development efforts on the unique subject matter of the content. Similar to on-campus programs offered by the Company s clients, the 8 online degree programs enabled by the Company offer numerous courses for each degree. The Company therefore capitalizes its development costs on a course-by-course basis. As students must matriculate into a client program in order to take a course, revenues and identifiable cash flows are also measured at the client program level. The Company develops content on a course-by-course basis in conjunction with the faculty for each client program. The clients and their faculty generally provide course outlines in the form of the curriculum, required textbooks, case studies and other reading materials, as well as presentations that are typically used in the on-campus setting. The Company is then responsible for, and incurs all of the expenses related to, the conversion of the materials provided by each client into a format suitable for delivery through Online Campus. The content development costs that qualify for capitalization are third-party direct costs, such as videography, editing and other services associated with creating digital content. Additionally, the Company capitalizes internal payroll and payroll-related costs incurred to create and produce videos and other digital content utilized in the clients programs for delivery via Online Campus. Capitalization ends when content has been fully developed by both the Company and the client, at which time amortization of the capitalized content development costs begins. The capitalized costs are recorded on a course-by-course basis and included in capitalized content costs on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. These costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the respective capitalized content program, which is generally five years. The estimated useful life corresponds with the Company s planned curriculum refresh rate. This refresh rate is consistent with expected curriculum refresh rates as cited by program faculty members for similar on-campus programs. It is reasonably possible that developed content could be refreshed before the estimated useful lives are complete or be expensed immediately in the event that the development of a course is discontinued prior to launch. Evaluation of Long-Lived Assets The Company reviews long-lived assets, which consist of property and equipment, capitalized technology costs, capitalized content development costs and acquired finite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of a long-lived asset is measured by a comparison of the carrying value of an asset or asset group to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by that asset or asset group. If such assets are not recoverable, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of an asset exceeds the estimated fair value (discounted cash flow) of the asset or asset group. In order to assess the recoverability of the capitalized content development costs, the costs are grouped by program, which is the lowest level of independent cash flows. The Company s impairment analysis is based upon forecasted financial and operational results. The actual results could vary from the Company s forecasts, especially in relation to recently launched programs. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, no impairment of long-lived assets was deemed to have occurred. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following conditions are met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)rendering of services is complete, (iii)fees are fixed or determinable and (iv)collection of fees is reasonably assured. The Company primarily derives its revenue from long-term contracts that typically range from 10 to 15years in length. Under these contracts, the Company enables access to its Platform to its clients and their faculty and students. The Company is entitled to a contractually specified percentage of net program proceeds from its clients. These net program proceeds represent gross proceeds billed by clients to students, less credit card fees and other specified charges the Company has agreed to exclude in certain of its client contracts. The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from multiple-deliverable contractual arrangements with its clients. Under each of these arrangements, the Company provides (i)access to Online Campus, which serves as a learning platform for its client s faculty and students and which also enables a comprehensive range of other client functions, (ii)access to operations applications which provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management, and other functionality necessary to effectively operate the Company s clients programs and (iii)technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. In order to treat deliverables in a multiple-deliverable contractual arrangement as separate units of accounting, deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. The technology-enabled services within the Platform are provided primarily in support of programs delivered through Online Campus, and for students of the programs delivered through Online Campus. Accordingly, the Company has determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, deliverables within the Company s multiple-deliverable arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Therefore, the Company considers all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting and recognizes revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. 9 Advance payments are recorded as deferred revenue until services are delivered or obligations are met, at which time revenue is recognized. Deferred revenue as of a particular balance sheet date represents the excess of amounts received as compared to amounts recognized in revenue in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as of the end of the reporting period, and such amounts are reflected as a current liability on the Company s condensed consolidated balance sheets. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation awards based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For awards subject to service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the awards requisite service period, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. For awards subject to both performance and service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense using an accelerated recognition method when it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. See Note7 for a summary of assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock options. Comprehensive Loss The Company s net loss equals comprehensive loss for all periods presented as the Company has no material components of other comprehensive income. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No.2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The ASU addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice surrounding how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated statements of cash flows and related disclosures. In March2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The ASU simplifies various aspects related to the accounting and presentation of share-based payments. The guidance also allows employers to withhold shares to satisfy minimum statutory withholding requirements up to the employees maximum individual tax rate without causing the award to be classified as a liability. Additionally, the guidance stipulates that cash paid by an employer to a taxing authority when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity on the statement of cash flows, and allows companies to elect an accounting policy to either estimate the share-based award forfeitures (and expense) or account for forfeitures (and expense) as they occur. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period, with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU introduces a model for lessees requiring most leases to be reported on the balance sheet. Lessor accounting remains substantially similar to current U.S. GAAP. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In November2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-17,Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes. The ASU eliminates the requirement to classify deferred tax assets and liabilities between current and noncurrent. The ASU requires classification of all deferred tax asset and liability balances as noncurrent. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. Adoption of the ASU is either retrospective to each prior period presented, or prospective. As of December31, 2015, the Company early adopted the ASU prospectively. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In April2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-05,Intangibles Goodwill and Other Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40). The ASU provides guidance to customers in a cloud computing arrangement to determine whether the arrangement includes a software license. When a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, the customer is required to account for the license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In April2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-03,Interest Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs. The ASU simplifies the presentation of debt issuance costs by requiring that such costs be presented in the 10 consolidated balance sheets as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the associated debt instrument, consistent with debt discounts. Subsequent to the issuance of this ASU, the SEC staff announced that the presentation of debt issuance costs associated with line-of-credit arrangements may be presented as an asset. This announcement was codified by the FASB in ASU 2015-15. The amendments in these ASUs are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In January2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-01, Income Statement Extraordinary and Unusual Items (Subtopic 225-20): Simplifying Income Statement Presentation by Eliminating the Concept of Extraordinary Items . The ASU simplifies income statement presentation by eliminating the concept of extraordinary items. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2016. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial position and related disclosures. In August2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15,Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The ASU requires that an entity s management evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entity s ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods ending afterDecember15, 2016. The Company does not expect the new standard to have a significant impact on its reporting process. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S.GAAP when it becomes effective. In July2015, the FASB deferred the mandatory effective date of this ASU by one year from January1, 2017 to January1, 2018. Early application is permitted, but not prior to the original effective date of January1, 2017. Subsequently, the FASB has issued the following standards related to ASU No.2014-09: ASU No.2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations; ASU No.2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing; and ASU No.2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients. The Company must adopt ASU No.2016-08, ASU No.2016-10 and ASU 2016-12 with ASU 2014-09 (collectively, the new revenue standards ). The new revenue standards may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the new standards will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the new standards on its ongoing financial reporting. 3. Property and Equipment Property and equipment consisted of the following as of: Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment was $0.4million and $0.3 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment was $1.2million and $0.8 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 11 As of September30, 2016, the estimated future depreciation and amortization expense for property and equipment placed in service is as follows (in thousands): 4. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs Capitalized technology and content development costs consisted of the following as of: Amortization expense related to capitalized technology was $0.5 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Amortization expense related to capitalized technology was $1.5 million and $1.2 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. This expense is included in technology and content development costs in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company re corded amortization expense related to capitalized content development costs of $1.6 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company recorded amortization expense related to capitalized content development costs of $4.2 million and $3.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of September30, 2016, the estimated future amortization expense for the capitalized technology and content development costs placed in service is as follows (in thousands): 5. Commitments and Contingencies Line of Credit On October 1, 2016, the Company amended its credit agreement for a revolving line of credit to extend the maturity date through December 1, 2016. No amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of September 30, 2016 or December 31, 2015. 12 Certain of the Company s operating lease agreements require security deposits in the form of cash or an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit. As of September 30, 2016, the Company has entered into standby letters of credit totaling $7.1 million, as security deposits for the leased facilities. These letters of credit reduced the aggregate amount the Company may borrow under its revolving line of credit to $17.9 million. Under this revolving line of credit, the Company has the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, the Company may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, the Company makes interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if such borrowed amounts are repaid before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of the Company s assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that the Company achieves specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, the Company is required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, the Company s adjusted quick ratio was 7.40 and 7.90, respectively. The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on the Company s ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in its assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with affiliates, amend or modify the terms of material contracts, or change its fiscal year. If the Company is not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or it otherwise experiences an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If the Company fails to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets pledged as collateral under the line of credit. The Company is currently in compliance with all such covenants. Legal Contingencies From time to time, the Company may become involved in legal proceedings or other contingencies in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is not presently involved in any legal proceeding or other contingency that, if determined adversely to it, would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that a material loss exceeding amounts already recognized may have been incurred as of the date of the balance sheets presented herein. Program Marketing and Sales Commitments Certain of the agreements entered into between the Company and its clients require the Company to commit to meet certain staffing and spending investment thresholds related to program marketing and sales activities. In addition, certain of the agreements require the Company to invest up to agreed-upon levels in marketing the programs to achieve specified program performance. The Company believes it is currently in compliance with all such commitments. Operating Leases The Company leases office facilities under non-cancelable operating leases in Maryland, New York, California, Colorado, North Carolina, Virginia and Hong Kong. The Company also leases office equipment under non-cancelable leases. As of September30, 2016, the future minimum lease payments (net of aggregate expected sublease payments of $0.1million) were as follows (in thousands): The future minimum lease payments due under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements contain fixed rent increases over the term of the lease. Rent expense on these operating leases is recognized over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. The excess of rent 13 expense over future minimum lease payments due has been reported in non-current liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The deferred rent liability related to these leases totaled $1.5million and $0.6 million as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. Total rent expense from non-cancelable operating lease agreements was $1.6 million (net of sublease income of $0.1 million) for the three months ended September30, 2016, and $0.9 million (net of sublease income of $0.1 million) for the three months ended September30, 2015. Total rent expense from non-cancelable operating lease agreements was $3.8 million (net of sublease income of $0.2 million) for the nine months ended September30, 2016, and $2.3 million (net of sublease income of $0.2 million) for the nine months ended September30, 2015. Fixed Payments to Clients The Company is contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of its clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. Currently, the future minimum fixed payments to the Company s clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights were as follows (in thousands): Contingent Payments to Clients The Company has entered into specific program agreements under which it would be obligated to make future minimum program payments to a client in the event that certain program metrics, partially associated with programs not yet launched, are not achieved. Due to the dependency of these calculations on future program launches, the amounts of any associated contingent payments cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As the Company cannot reasonably estimate the amounts of the contingent payments, and because it believes any contingent payments under this agreement would likely be immaterial, the Company has excluded such payments from the table above. 6. Stockholders Equity As of September30, 2016, the Company was authorized to issue 205,000,000 total shares of capital stock, consisting of 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At September30, 2016, the Company had reserved a total of 9,440,315 of its authorized shares of common stock for future issuance as follows: The compensation committee of the Company s board of directors, acting under authority delegated from the board of directors, granted on October1, 2016 option awards to employees and an independent director to purchase an aggregate of 37,347 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $38.29 and restricted stock unit awards for an aggregate of 15,324 shares of common stock, in each case under the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (as defined in Note 7 below). 7. Stock-Based Compensation The Company provides equity-based compensation awards to employees, independent contractors and directors as an effective means for attracting, retaining and motivating such individuals. The Company maintains two share-based compensation plans: the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan ) and the 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2008 Plan ). Upon the effective date of the 2014 Plan in January2014, the Company ceased using the 2008 Plan to grant new equity awards and began using the 2014 Plan for grants of new equity awards. The number of shares of the Company s common stock that may be issued under the 2014 Plan will automatically increase on January1stof each year, for a period of ten years, from January1, 2015 continuing through January1, 2024, by 5% of the total number of shares of the Company s common stock outstanding on December31stof the preceding calendar year, or a lesser number 14 of shares as may be determined by the Company s board of directors. The shares available for issuance increased by 2,288,820 and 2,036,503 on January1, 2016 and 2015, respectively, pursuant to the automatic share reserve increase provision under the 2014 Plan. Stock-Based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards is included in the following line items in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations: Stock Options The following table summarizes the assumptions used for estimating the fair value of the stock options granted for the periods presented. The following is a summary of the stock option activity for the nine months ended September30, 2016: The total compensation cost related to the nonvested options not yet recognized as of September30, 2016 was $12.8million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.2years. The aggregate intrinsic value of the options exercised during the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was $22.2million and $20.4million, respectively. Restricted Stock Units The following is a summary of restricted stock unit activity for the nine months ended September30, 2016: 15 The total compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted stock units not yet recognized as of September30, 2016 was $20.8million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.6years. 8. Net Loss per Share Diluted net loss per share is the same as basic net loss per share for all periods presented because the effects of potentially dilutive items were anti-dilutive, given the Company s net loss. The following securities have been excluded from the calculation of weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding because the effect is anti-dilutive for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015: Basic and diluted net loss per share is calculated as follows: 9. Segment and Geographic Information Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which discrete financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. The Company s CODM reviews the financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. As such, the Company s operations constitute a single operating segment and one reportable segment. The Company offers similar services to substantially all of its clients, which primarily represent well-recognized nonprofit colleges and universities in the United States. Substantially all assets were held and all revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented. Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015. Certain statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ), as amended. The words or phrases would be, will allow, intends to, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project, or similar expressions, or the negative of such words or phrases, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Because such statements include risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause or contribute to these differences, including those discussed in PartI,Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2015, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Statements made herein are as of the date of the filing of this Form10-Q with the SEC and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake, and we specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. 16 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December31, 2015, which are included in our Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on March10, 2016. Overview We are a leading provider of an integrated solution comprised of cloud-based software-as-a-service, or SaaS, technology fused with technology-enabled services, which we refer to as our Platform. Our Platform enables leading nonprofit colleges and universities to deliver their high-quality education to qualified students anywhere. Our SaaS technology consists of an innovative online learning environment, which we refer to as Online Campus, and our operations applications. This technology is fused with technology-enabled services, to complete our Platform. Our Platform allows our clients programs to expand and operate at scale, providing the comprehensive infrastructure colleges and universities need to attract, enroll, educate, support and graduate their students. By leveraging our Platform, we believe our clients are able to expand their addressable markets while providing educational engagement, experiences and outcomes to their online students that match or exceed those of their on-campus offerings. Our Business Model The key elements of our business model are described below. Revenue Drivers and Predictability Substantially all of our revenue is derived from revenue-share arrangements with our clients, under which we receive a contractually specified percentage of the amounts students pay them in tuition and other fees. Accordingly, the primary driver of our revenue growth is the increase in the number of student course enrollments in our clients programs. This in turn is influenced primarily by three factors: our ability to increase the number of programs offered by our clients, either by adding new clients or by expanding the number of client programs; our ability to identify and acquire prospective students for our clients programs; and our ability, and that of our clients, to retain the students who enroll in their programs. In the near term, we expect the primary drivers of our financial results to continue to be our two programs with the University of Southern California, which are our longest running programs, which we launched in 2009 and 2010. For the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, 35% and 43%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from these two programs, while for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, 36% and 46%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from these two programs. We expect the University of Southern California will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue even though that portion will likely continue to decline as other client programs become more mature and achieve higher enrollment levels. A significant percentage of our revenue in any period is related to students returning to our clients programs after their first academic term. We believe this contributes to the predictability and recurring nature of our business. Program Marketing and Sales Expense Our most significant expense in each fiscal period has been program marketing and sales expense, which relates primarily to student acquisition activities. We do not spend significant amounts on new client or program acquisition and we do not maintain a sales force targeted at potential new clients or programs since our model is not dependent on launching a large number of new programs per year, either with new or existing clients. Instead, our new clients and programs are largely generated through a direct approach by our senior management to selected colleges and universities. We have primary responsibility for identifying qualified students for our clients programs, generating potential student interest in the programs and driving applications to the programs. While our clients make all admissions decisions, the number of students who enroll in our clients programs in any given period is significantly dependent on the amount we have spent on these student acquisition activities in prior periods. Accordingly, although most of our clients programs span multiple academic terms and, therefore, generate continued revenue beyond the term in which initial enrollments occur, we expect that we will need to continue to incur significant program marketing and sales expense for existing programs going forward to generate a continuous pipeline of new enrollments. For new programs, we begin incurring program marketing and sales costs as early as nine months prior to the start of a new client program. 17 We typically identify prospective students for our clients programs between three months and two or more years before they ultimately enroll. For the students currently enrolled in our clients programs and those who have graduated, the average time from our initial prospective student acquisition to initial enrollment was seven months. For the students who have graduated from these programs, the average time from initial enrollment to graduation was 22months. Based on the student retention rates and patterns we have observed in our clients programs, we estimate that, for our current programs, the average time from a student s initial enrollment to graduation will be approximately twoyears. Accordingly, our program marketing and sales expense in any period is an investment we make to generate revenue in future periods. Likewise, revenue generated in any period is largely attributable to the investment made in student acquisition activities in earlier periods. Because program marketing and sales expense in any period is almost entirely unrelated to revenue generated in that period, we do not believe it is meaningful to directly compare the two. We believe that the total revenue we will receive in the future from students who enroll in our clients programs as a result of current period program marketing and sales expense will be significantly greater as a multiple of that expense than is implied by the multiple of current period revenue to current period program marketing and sales expense. Further, we believe that our program marketing and sales expense in future periods will generally decline as a percentage of the revenue reported in those same periods as our revenue base from returning students in existing programs increases. We continually manage our program marketing and sales expense to ensure that across our portfolio of client programs, our cost to acquire students for these programs is appropriate for our business model. We use a ratio of attrition adjusted lifetime revenue of a student, or LTR, to the total cost to acquire that student, or TCA, as the measure of our marketing efficiency and to determine how much we are willing to spend to acquire an additional student for any program. The calculations included in this ratio include certain assumptions. For any period, we know what we spent on program sales and marketing and therefore, can accurately calculate the ratio s denominator. However, given the time lag between when we incur our program marketing and sales expense and when we receive revenue related to students enrolled based on that expense, we have to incorporate forecasts of student enrollments and retention into our calculation of the ratio s numerator, which is our estimate of future revenue related to that period s expense. We use the significant amount of data we have on the effectiveness of various marketing channels, student attrition and other factors to inform our forecasts and are continually testing the assumptions underlying these forecasts against actual results to give us confidence that our forecasts are reasonable. The LTR to TCA ratio may vary from program to program depending on the degree being offered, where that program is in its lifecycle and whether we enable the same or similar degrees at other universities. Period-to-Period Fluctuations Our revenue, cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to variations driven by the academic schedules of our clients programs. These programs generally start classes for new and returning students an average of four times per year. Classstarts are not necessarily evenly spaced throughout the year, do not necessarily correspond to the traditional academic calendar and may vary from year to year. As a result, the number of classes our client programs have in session, and therefore the number of students enrolled, will vary from month to month and quarter to quarter, leading to variability in our revenue. Our clients programs often have academic terms that straddle two fiscal quarters. Our clients generally pay us when they have billed tuition and specified fees to their students, which is typically early in the academic term, and once the drop/add period has passed. We recognize the related revenue ratably over the course of the academic term, beginning on the first day of classes through the last. Because we generally receive payments from our clients prior to our ability to recognize the majority of those amounts as revenue, we record deferred revenue at each balance sheet date equal to the excess of the amounts we have billed or received from our clients over the amounts we have recognized as revenue as of that date. For these reasons, our cash flows typically vary considerably from quarter to quarter and our cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue typically fluctuate between quarterly balance sheet dates. Our expense levels also fluctuate from quarter to quarter, driven primarily by our program marketing and sales activity. We typically reduce our paid search and other program marketing and sales efforts during late Novemberand Decemberbecause these efforts are less productive during the holiday season. This generally results in lower total program marketing and sales expense during the fourth quarter. In addition, because we begin spending on program marketing and sales, and, to a lesser extent, services and support as much as nine months prior to the start of classes for a new client program, these costs as a percentage of revenue fluctuate, sometimes significantly, depending on the timing of new client programs and anticipated program launch dates. Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations Third Quarter 2016 Highlights Revenue was $52.0 million, an increase of 40.1% from $37.1 million in the third quarter of 2015. Net loss was $(6.8) million, or $(0.14) per share, compared to $(8.2) million or $(0.20) per share, in the third quarter of 2015. 18 Adjusted EBITDA loss was $(0.2) million, compared to an adjusted EBITDA loss of $(2.9) million in the third quarter of 2015. Revenue Substantially all of our revenue consists of a contractually specified percentage of the amounts our clients bill to their students for tuition and fees, less credit card fees and other specified charges we have agreed to exclude in certain of our client contracts, which we refer to as net program proceeds. Most of our contracts have 10 to 15 year initial terms. We recognize revenue ratably over the service period, which we define as the first through the last day of classes for each academic term in a client s program. We establish a refund allowance for our share of tuition and fees ultimately uncollected by our clients. We also offered rebates to a limited group of students who enrolled in a specific client program between 2009 and 2011, which we will be required to pay to such students if they complete their degrees and pre-specified, post-graduation work requirements within a defined period of time after graduation. For students in this group who are still enrolled in the program, we accrue the rebate liability as they continue through the program towards graduation. In addition, all students in this group are required to certify to us each Septemberas to their continuing eligibility for these rebates. For those students who do not make such certification and are therefore no longer eligible for the rebate, because, for example, they have failed to meet their post-graduation work requirements, we reduce the allowance accordingly at that time. As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, 67 and 81 students, respectively, remained eligible to receive these rebates. These rebates and refunds offset the net program proceeds that we recognize as revenue. In addition to providing access to the SaaS technology within our Platform, we provide technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities and facilitating in-program field placements. We have determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, the multiple deliverables within our arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Accordingly, we consider all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting, and we recognize revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. We generally receive payments from our clients early in each academic term, prior to completion of the service period. We record these advance payments as deferred revenue until the services are delivered or until our obligations are otherwise met, at which time we recognize the revenue. As of each balance sheet date, deferred revenue is a current liability and represents the excess amounts we have billed or received over the amounts we have recognized as revenue in the consolidated statements of operations as of that date. Revenue for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $52.0 million, an increase of $14.9 million, or 40.1%, from $37.1 million for the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to a 38.2% increase in period-over-period full course equivalent enrollments in our client programs, from 13,840 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to 19,126 for the three months ended September 30, 2016. Of the increase in full course equivalent enrollments, 575, or 10.9%, were attributable to client programs launched during the 12 months ended September 30, 2016. Revenue for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $148.5 million, an increase of $41.6million, or 38.9%, from $106.9 million for the same period of 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to a 37.5% increase in period-over-period full course equivalent enrollments in our client programs, from 40,489 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to 55,659 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Of the increase in full course equivalent enrollments, 1,108, or 7.3%, were attributable to client programs launched during the 12 months ended September 30, 2016. Costs and Expenses Costs and expenses consist of servicing and support costs, technology and content development costs, program marketing and sales expenses and general and administrative expenses. To support our anticipated growth, we expect to continue to hire new employees (which will increase both our cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs), increase our program promotion and student acquisition efforts, expand our technology infrastructure and increase our other program support capabilities. As a result, we expect our costs and expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we achieve economies of scale through the expansion of our business. Servicing and support. Servicing and support expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs related to program management and operations, as well as costs for technical support for our SaaS technology and faculty and student support. It includes costs to facilitate in-program field placements, student immersions and other student enrichment experiences and costs to assist our clients with their state compliance requirements. It also includes software licensing, telecommunications and other costs to provide access to the SaaS technology within our Platform for our clients and their students. 19 Technology and content development. Technology and content development expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation and outsourced services costs related to the ongoing improvement and maintenance of the SaaS technology within our Platform and the developed content for our client programs. It also includes the costs to support our internal infrastructure, including our cloud-based server usage. Additionally, it includes the associated amortization expense related to capitalized technology and content development costs, as well as hosting and other costs associated with maintaining the SaaS technology within our Platform in a cloud environment. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense consists primarily of costs related to student acquisition. This includes the cost of online advertising and prospective student generation, as well as cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for our program marketing, search engine optimization, marketing analytics and admissions application counseling personnel. We expense all costs related to program marketing and sales as they are incurred. General and administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for employees in our executive, administrative, finance and accounting, legal, communications and human resources functions. Additional expenses include external legal, accounting and other professional fees, telecommunications charges and other corporate costs such as insurance and travel that are not related to another function. The costs and expenses for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Servicing and support. Servicing and support costs for the three months ended September 30, 2016 were $10.3 million, an increase of $2.5 million, or 31.9%, from $7.8 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $1.5 million increase in cash compensation costs, a $0.2 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs, a $0.2 million increase in costs associated with student immersion courses and on-campus initiatives and a $0.1 million increase in travel and related expenses as we increased our headcount in this area by 24% to serve a growing number of students and faculty in existing and new client programs. Additionally, other servicing and support costs increased $0.5 million. As a percentage of revenue, servicing and support costs decreased from 21.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to 19.9% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Technology and content development. Technology and content development costs for the three months ended September 30, 2016 were $8.7 million, an increase of $1.6 million, or 22.4%, from $7.1 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to the increase in the number of courses that have been developed for our client programs, which resulted in an increase of $0.5 million from higher amortization expense associated with our capitalized technology and content development costs and higher cloud-based hosting services of $0.4 million. Additionally, non-cash stock-based compensation costs increased by $0.2 million, employee technological equipment expenditures increased by $0.2 million and travel and related expenses increased by $0.1 million as we increased our headcount in this area by 26% to support the launch of new client programs and scaling of existing programs, while other technology and content development expense increased by $0.2 million. As a percentage of revenue, technology and content development costs decreased from 19.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to 16.7% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $28.2 million, an increase of $6.6 million, or 30.6%, from $21.6 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $3.4 million increase in direct internet marketing costs to acquire students for our clients programs. Additionally, cash compensation costs increased by $2.2 million, non-cash stock-based compensation costs increased by $0.1 million, rent expense increased by $0.3 million and travel and related expenses increased by $0.1 million as we increased our headcount in this area by 18% 20 to acquire students for, and drive revenue growth in, new client programs. Finally, other program marketing and sales expenses increased by $0.5 million to support our program marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, program marketing and sales expense decreased from 58.1% for the three months ended September30, 2015 to 54.2% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. General and administrative. General and administrative expense for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $11.6 million, an increase of $3.1 million, or 36.5%, from $8.5 million for the same period of 2015. This was due primarily to a $1.2 million increase in cash compensation costs and a $0.3 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs as we increased in our headcount in this area by 29% to support our growing business. Further, costs associated with the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system integration increased $0.9 million, employee education benefits increased by $0.4 million, while other general and administrative costs increased by $0.3 million. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expense decreased from 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 to 22.3% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is a component of compensation cost within each of the four cost and expense categories described above. In early 2014, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved a framework for granting equity awards under our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan. Under this framework, the majority of our equity awards are made on or around April 1 of each year and typically have four-year vesting periods. As such, non-cash stock-based compensation expense is expected to continue to increase year-over-year until four years after the initial mid-2014 grants. The costs and expenses for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: Servicing and support. Servicing and support costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 were $30.1 million, an increase of $6.8 million, or 29.3%, from $23.3 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $4.1 million increase in cash compensation costs, a $0.8 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs, a $0.6 million increase in travel and related expenses as we increased our headcount in this area by 29% to serve a growing number of students and faculty in existing and new client programs and a $0.4 million increase in costs associated with student immersion courses and on-campus initiatives. Additionally, other servicing and support costs increased $0.9 million. As a percentage of revenue, servicing and support costs decreased from 21.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to 20.3% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Technology and content development. Technology and content development costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 were $24.8 million, an increase of $5.1 million, or 25.9%, from $19.7 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily to a $1.0 million increase in cash compensation costs (net of amounts capitalized for technology and content development), a $0.6 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs, a $0.5 million increase in employee technological equipment expenditures and a $0.3 million increase in travel and related expenses, as we increased our headcount in this area by 33% to support the launch of new client programs and scaling of existing programs. Additionally, the increase in the number of courses that have been developed for our client programs resulted in $1.3 million of higher amortization expense associated with our capitalized technology and content development costs and higher cloud-based hosting services of $0.5 million. Finally, technology consulting expense increased by $0.2 million, while other technology and content development expense increased by $0.7 million. As a percentage of revenue, technology and content development costs decreased from 18.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to 16.7% for the same period of 2016, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $79.3 million, an increase of $16.6 million, or 26.5%, from $62.7 million for the same period of 2015. This increase was due primarily 21 to a $7.5 million increase in direct internet marketing costs to acquire students for our clients programs. Additionally, cash compensation costs increased by $6.1 million, non-cash stock-based compensation costs increased by $0.2 million, rent expense increased by $0.7 million and travel and related expenses increased by $0.6 million as we increased our headcount in this area by 21% to acquire students for, and drive revenue growth in, new client programs. Finally, other program marketing and sales expenses increased by $1.5 million to support our program marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, program marketing and sales expense decreased from 58.6% for the nine months ended September30, 2015 to 53.4% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. General and administrative. General and administrative expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $33.0 million, an increase of $9.0 million, or 37.0%, from $24.0 million for the same period of 2015. This was due primarily to a $3.6 million increase in cash compensation costs and a $2.3 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation costs as we increased in our headcount in this area by 35% to support our growing business. Further, costs associated with the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system integration increased $1.9 million, employee education benefits increased by $1.6 million and accounting services primarily related to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and other professional fees increased by $0.6 million. These increases were partially offset by a $1.0 million signing bonus of a key executive in June 2015, which consisted of cash and a common stock award signing bonus. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expense decreased from 22.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 to 22.2% for the same period of 2016, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists of interest income, interest expense and other expenses. Interest income is derived from interest received on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense consists primarily of the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our line of credit. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Income tax expense consists of U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes. To date, we have not been required to pay U.S. federal income taxes because of our current and accumulated net operating losses. We incurred immaterial state and foreign income tax liabilities for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015. Key Business and Financial Performance Metrics We use a number of key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. In addition to adjusted EBITDA, which we discuss below, we discuss revenue and the components of operating loss in the section above entitled Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations. Additionally, we utilize other key metrics to evaluate the success of our growth strategy, including measures we refer to as Platform revenue retention rate and full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs. Platform Revenue Retention Rate We measure our Platform revenue retention rate for a particular period by first identifying the group of programs that our clients launched before the beginning of the prior year comparative period. We then calculate our Platform revenue retention rate by comparing the revenue we recognized for this group of programs in the reporting period to the revenue we recognized for the same group of programs in the prior year comparative period, expressed as a percentage of the revenue we recognized for the group in the prior year comparative period. The following table sets forth our Platform revenue retention rate for the periods presented, as well as the number of programs included in the Platform revenue retention rate calculation. For all of these periods, our Platform revenue retention rate was greater than 100% because we had no programs terminate and full course equivalent enrollments in the aggregate increased year-over-year. There is no direct correlation between the Platform revenue retention rate and the number of programs included in the calculation of that rate. However, there may be a correlation between the Platform revenue retention rate and the average maturity of the programs included in the calculation of that rate because newer programs tend to have higher percentage growth rates. (1) Reflects the number of programs operating both in the reported period and in the prior year comparative period. 22 Full Course Equivalent Enrollments in Our Clients Programs We measure full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs by determining, for each of the courses offered during a particular period, the number of students enrolled in that course multiplied by the percentage of the course completed during that period. We use this metric to account for the fact that many courses offered by our clients straddle two or more fiscal quarters. For example, if a course had 25 enrolled students and 40% of the course was completed during a particular period, we would count the course as having 10 full course equivalent enrollments for that period. Any individual student may be enrolled in more than one course during a period. Average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment represents our weighted-average revenue per course across the mix of courses being offered in our client programs during a period. This number is derived by dividing our total revenue for a period by the number of full course equivalent enrollments during that same period. This amount may vary from period to period depending on the academic calendars of our clients, the relative growth rates of programs with varying tuition levels, the launch of new programs with higher or lower than average net tuition costs and annual tuition increases instituted by our clients. As a part of our growth strategy, we are actively targeting new graduate-level clients in academic disciplines for which we have existing programs. Over time, this strategy is likely to reduce our average revenue per full course equivalent. However, we believe this approach will enable us to leverage our program marketing investments across multiple client programs within specific academic disciplines, significantly decreasing student acquisition costs within those disciplines and more than offsetting any decline in average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment. The following table sets forth the full course equivalent enrollments and average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment in our clients programs for the periods presented. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA represents our earnings before net interest (income) expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted to eliminate stock-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash item. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S.GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with U.S.GAAP. In addition, adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we do. We prepare adjusted EBITDA to eliminate the impact of stock-based compensation expense, which we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. Our use of adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S.GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and 23 other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other U.S.GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other U.S. GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity On October1, 2016, we amended our credit agreement for a revolving line of credit to extend the maturity date through December1, 2016. No amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of September30, 2016 or December31, 2015. Certain of our operating lease agreements require security deposits in the form of cash or an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit. As of September 30, 2016, we have entered into standby letters of credit totaling $7.1 million, as security deposits for the leased facilities. These letters of credit reduced the aggregate amount we may borrow under our revolving line of credit to $17.9 million. Under this revolving line of credit, we have the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, we may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, we may make interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if we repay such borrowed amounts before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to our compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that we achieve specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some of our client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures our short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, our adjusted quick ratios were 7.40 and 7.90, respectively. The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in our assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with our affiliates, amend or modify the terms of our material contracts, or change our fiscal year. If we are not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or we otherwise experience an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If we fail to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets we have pledged as collateral under the line of credit. We are currently in compliance with all such covenants. 24 Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented. Operating Activities For the nine months ended September30, 2016, net cash used in operating activities of $14.4million consisted of a net loss of $18.5 million and a $14.6million net cash outflow from changes in working capital, partially offset by $18.7million in non-cash items. The decrease in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of a $20.0 million increase in accounts receivable and other changes in working capital of $0.8 million, partially offset by a $4.1 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $1.3 million increase in payments to clients, a $0.4 million increase in deferred revenue and a $0.4 million increase in accrued compensation and related benefits. Non-cash items consisted of non-cash stock-based compensation charges of $11.6 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $7.1 million. For the nine months ended September30, 2015, net cash used in operating activities was $22.6million consisted of a net loss of $23.3million and a $14.0 million net cash outflow from changes in working capital, partially offset by $14.7million in non-cash items. The decrease in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of increases in accounts receivable of $12.3 million, a $6.8 million change in other assets and other liabilities, partially offset by a $2.4 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $2.4 million increase in accrued compensation and related benefits and other changes in working capital of $0.3 million. Non-cash items consisted of non-cash stock-based compensation charges of $9.2 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $5.2 million and a $0.3 million loss on an investment. Investing Activities For the nine months ended September30, 2016, net cash used in investing activities of $16.2 million consisted of $12.4 million in costs related to internal-use software and content developed to support a greater number of launched programs. Additionally, leasehold improvement expenditures related to our new office operating leases were $3.7 million, and other property and equipment purchases were $0.1 million. For the nine months ended September30, 2015, net cash used in investing activities of $10.3 million consisted of $9.1 million in costs related to internal-use software and content developed to support a greater number of launched programs. Additionally, other property and equipment purchases were $1.2 million. Financing Activities For the nine months ended September30, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $3.8million, consisting of $4.3 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.5 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock units. For the nine months ended September30, 2015, net cash provided by financing activities was $121.3million, consisting of $117.4 million in net proceeds from our public offering of common stock and $4.3 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.4 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock units. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have non-cancelable operating leases for our office space, and we are also contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of our university clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. We have a $25.0million line of credit from Comerica Bank (with letters of credit reducing the aggregate amount we may borrow to $17.9 million) and no amounts were outstanding as of September30, 2016. See Note5 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 and Legal Proceedings contained in PartII,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for additional information regarding contingencies. 25 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note2 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for a discussion of FASB s recent accounting pronouncements and their effect on us.Item 1. Financial Statements 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity (unaudited, in thousands, except share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 2U,Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Description of the Business 2U,Inc. (the Company ) was incorporated as 2TorInc. in the State of Delaware in April2008 and changed its name to 2U,Inc. on October11, 2012. Under long-term agreements, the Company provides an integrated solution comprised of cloud-based software-as-a-service ( SaaS ), fused with technology-enabled services (together, the Platform ), that allows leading colleges and universities to deliver high-quality digital degree programs, extending the universities reach and distinguishing their brands. The Company s SaaS technology consists of (i)a comprehensive learning environment ( Online Campus ), which acts as the hub for all student and faculty academic and social interaction, and (ii)a comprehensive suite of integrated applications, which the Company uses to launch, operate and support the Company s clients programs. The Company also provides a suite of technology-enabled services optimized with data analysis and machine learning techniques that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( U.S.GAAP ) and include the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of the Company. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Information The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The Company has condensed or omitted certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of management, the interim financial information includes all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation of financial position, the results of operations, changes in stockholders equity and cash flows, and the disclosures made herein are adequate to prevent the information presented from being misleading. The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year ending December 31, 2017 or the results for any future periods. These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2016, which are included in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) on February 24, 2017. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S.GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to the useful lives of long-lived assets, fair value measurements and income taxes, among others. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be affected by changes in those estimates. The Company evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All of the Company s cash is held at financial institutions that management believes to be of high credit quality. The Company s bank accounts exceed federally insured limits at times. The Company has not experienced any losses on cash to date. To manage accounts receivable risk, the Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, if needed. 7 During the three months ended March31, 2017, four clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $19.7 million, $11.7 million, $6.8 million and $6.5 million, which equals 30%, 18%, 11% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. During the three months ended March31, 2016, three clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $17.9 million, $7.8 million and $5.1 million, which equals 38%, 16% and 11% of total revenue, respectively. As of March31, 2017, two clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s accounts receivable balance, as follows: $19.4 million and $5.8 million, which equals 68% and 20% of total accounts receivable, respectively. As of December31, 2016, two clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s accounts receivable balance, as follows: $5.8 million and $1.4 million, which equals 74% and 17% of total accounts receivable, respectively. Long-Lived Assets Property and Equipment Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for major additions, construction and improvements are capitalized. Depreciation and amortization is expensed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from three to five years for computer hardware and five to seven years for furniture and office equipment. Leasehold improvements are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated useful life of the improvement, which generally ranges from four to 11 years. Useful lives of significant assets are periodically reviewed and adjusted prospectively to reflect the Company s current estimates of the respective assets expected utility. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs The Company capitalizes certain costs related to internal-use software, primarily consisting of direct labor associated with creating the software. Software development projects generally include three stages: the preliminary project stage (all costs are expensed as incurred), the application development stage (certain costs are capitalized and certain costs are expensed as incurred) and the post-implementation/operation stage (all costs are expensed as incurred). Costs capitalized in the application development stage include costs of designing the application, coding, integrating the Company s and the university s networks and systems, and the testing of the software. Capitalization of costs requires judgment in determining when a project has reached the application development stage and the period over which the Company expects to benefit from the use of that software. Once the software is placed in service, these costs are amortized on the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which is generally three years. The Company works with each client s faculty members to develop and maintain educational content that is delivered to their students through Online Campus. The online content developed jointly by the Company and its clients consists of subjects chosen and taught by clients faculty members and incorporates references and examples designed to remain relevant over extended periods of time. Online delivery of the content, combined with live, face-to-face instruction, provides the Company with rapid user feedback that it uses to make ongoing corrections, modifications and improvements to the course content. The Company s clients retain all intellectual property rights to the developed content, although the Company retains the rights to the content packaging and delivery mechanisms. Much of the Company s new content development uses proven delivery platforms and is therefore primarily subject-specific in nature. As a result, a significant portion of content development costs qualify for capitalization due to the focus of the Company s development efforts on the unique subject matter of the content. Similar to on-campus programs offered by the Company s clients, the digital degree programs enabled by the Company offer numerous courses for each degree. The Company therefore capitalizes its development costs on a course-by-course basis. The Company develops content on a course-by-course basis in conjunction with the faculty for each client program. The clients and their faculty generally provide course outlines in the form of the curriculum, required textbooks, case studies and other reading materials, as well as presentations that are typically used in the on-campus setting. The Company is then responsible for, and incurs all of the expenses related to, the conversion of the materials provided by each client into a format suitable for delivery through Online Campus. The content development costs that qualify for capitalization are third-party direct costs, such as videography, editing and other services associated with creating digital content. Additionally, the Company capitalizes internal payroll and payroll-related costs incurred to create and produce videos and other digital content utilized in the clients programs for delivery via Online Campus. Capitalization ends when content has been fully developed by both the Company and the client, at which time amortization of the capitalized content development costs begins. The capitalized costs are recorded on a course-by-course basis and included in capitalized content costs on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. These costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the respective capitalized content program, which is generally five years. The estimated useful life corresponds with the Company s planned curriculum refresh rate. 8 Evaluation of Long-Lived Assets The Company reviews long-lived assets, which consist of property and equipment, capitalized technology costs, capitalized content development costs and acquired finite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of a long-lived asset is measured by a comparison of the carrying value of an asset or asset group to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by that asset or asset group. If such assets are not recoverable, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying value of an asset exceeds the estimated fair value (discounted cash flow) of the asset or asset group. In order to assess the recoverability of the capitalized technology and content development costs, the costs are grouped by degree vertical, which is the lowest level of independent cash flows. The Company s impairment analysis is based upon cumulative results and forecasted performance. The actual results could vary from the Company s forecasts, especially in relation to recently launched programs. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, no impairment of long-lived assets was deemed to have occurred. Non-cash investing and financing activities During the three months ended March31, 2017, the Company had new capital asset additions of $20.0 million, which was comprised of $11.1 million of leasehold improvements, $4.8 million in capitalized technology and content development costs and $4.1 million of other property and equipment. The $20.0 million increase primarily consisted of $14.3 million in cash capital expenditures and $5.4 million in landlord funded leasehold improvements. During the three months ended March31, 2016, the Company had new capital asset additions of $4.4 million, which was primarily comprised of capitalized technology and content development costs. The increase consisted almost entirely of cash capital expenditures. Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following conditions are met: (i)persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (ii)rendering of services is complete, (iii)fees are fixed or determinable and (iv)collection of fees is reasonably assured. The Company primarily derives its revenue from long-term contracts that typically range from 10 to 15years in length. Under these contracts, the Company enables access to its Platform to its clients and their faculty and students. The Company is entitled to a contractually specified percentage of net program proceeds from its clients. These net program proceeds represent gross proceeds billed by clients to students, less credit card fees and other specified charges the Company has agreed to exclude in certain of its client contracts. The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from multiple-deliverable contractual arrangements with its clients. Under each of these arrangements, the Company provides (i)access to Online Campus, which serves as a learning platform for its client s faculty and students and which also enables a comprehensive range of other client functions, (ii)access to operations applications which provide the content management, admissions application processing, customer relationship management, and other functionality necessary to effectively operate the Company s clients programs and (iii)technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. In order to treat deliverables in a multiple-deliverable contractual arrangement as separate units of accounting, deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. The technology-enabled services within the Platform are provided primarily in support of programs delivered through Online Campus, and for students of the programs delivered through Online Campus. Accordingly, the Company has determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, deliverables within the Company s multiple-deliverable arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Therefore, the Company considers all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting and recognizes revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. Advance payments are recorded as deferred revenue until services are delivered or obligations are met, at which time revenue is recognized. Deferred revenue as of a particular balance sheet date represents the excess of amounts received as compared to amounts recognized in revenue in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as of the end of the reporting period, and such amounts are reflected as a current liability on the Company s condensed consolidated balance sheets. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock-based compensation awards based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For awards subject to service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the awards requisite service period. For awards subject to both performance and service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense using an accelerated recognition method when it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. See Note6 for a summary of assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock options. Comprehensive Loss The Company s net loss equals comprehensive loss for all periods presented as the Company has no material components of other comprehensive income. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No.2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The ASU addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice surrounding how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated statements of cash flows and related disclosures. 9 In March2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The ASU simplifies various aspects related to the accounting and presentation of share-based payments. The guidance also allows employers to withhold shares to satisfy minimum statutory withholding requirements up to the employees maximum individual tax rate without causing the award to be classified as a liability. Additionally, the guidance stipulates that cash paid by an employer to a taxing authority when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity on the statement of cash flows, and allows companies to elect an accounting policy to either estimate the share-based award forfeitures (and expense) or account for forfeitures (and expense) as they occur. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2017. In connection with the adoption of this standard, the Company elected to no longer apply an estimated forfeiture rate and will instead account for forfeitures as they occur. Accordingly, the Company applied the modified retrospective adoption approach, which resulted in a $0.1 million cumulative-effect reduction to retained earnings with an offset to additional paid-in-capital. In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU introduces a model for lessees requiring most leases to be reported on the balance sheet. Lessor accounting remains substantially similar to current U.S. GAAP. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this ASU will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures, and believes that this standard may materially increase its other non-current assets and non-current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets in order to record right-of-use assets and related liabilities for its existing operating leases. In August2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15,Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The ASU requires that an entity s management evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entity s ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods ending afterDecember15, 2016. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2017. Adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Company s financial reporting process. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S.GAAP when it becomes effective. In July2015, the FASB deferred the mandatory effective date of this ASU by one year from January1, 2017 to January1, 2018. Early application is permitted, but not prior to the original effective date of January1, 2017. Subsequently, the FASB has issued the following standards related to ASU No.2014-09: ASU No.2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations; ASU No.2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing; ASU No.2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients; and ASU No.2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The Company must adopt ASU No.2016-08, ASU No.2016-10, ASU No.2016-12 and ASU No.2016-20 with ASU No.2014-09 (collectively, the new revenue standard ). The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company has engaged an independent third-party to assist with the implementation of the new revenue standard, has completed the review of the Company s contracts portfolio and has continued to make progress with its implementation and assessment of the new revenue standard during the first quarter of 2017. While the Company cannot currently estimate the impact of adopting the new revenue standard, the Company is in the process of reviewing the current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that could result from applying the requirements of the new revenue standard to its revenue contracts and expects to complete the assessment effort by the end of the second quarter of 2017. Over the second half of 2017, the Company will complete the quantification of any identified impacts, the evaluation and implementation of any necessary changes to its business processes and controls in order to support revenue recognition and disclosure under the new revenue standard, and the determination of which transition approach will be applied. As part of this effort, the Company will continue to monitor and assess the impact of any changes to the new revenue standard and its interpretations as they become available. The Company will provide additional updates on progress made and further conclusions in its remaining Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed in 2017, and adopt the new revenue standard on January1, 2018. 3. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs Capitalized technology and content development costs consisted of the following as of: 10 Amortization expense related to capitalized technology was $0.7 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. This expense is included in technology and content development costs in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company re corded amortization expense related to capitalized content development costs of $1.7 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of March31, 2017, the estimated future amortization expense for the capitalized technology and content development costs placed in service is as follows (in thousands): 4. Commitments and Contingencies Line of Credit In March2017, the Company amended its credit agreement for a revolving line of credit to extend the maturity date through July31, 2017. No amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of March31, 2017 or December31, 2016. The Company intends to extend this agreement under comparable terms, prior to expiration. Certain of the Company s operating lease agreements entered into prior to March31, 2017 require security deposits in the form of cash or an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit. As of March31, 2017, the Company has entered into standby letters of credit totaling $11.5 million, as security deposits for the applicable leased facilities. These letters of credit reduced the aggregate amount the Company may borrow under its revolving line of credit to $13.5 million. Under this revolving line of credit, the Company has the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, the Company may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, the Company may make interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if such borrowed amounts are repaid before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of the Company s assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that the Company achieves specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, the Company is required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, the Company s adjusted quick ratio was 5.40 and 5.43, respectively. The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on the Company s ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in its assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with affiliates, amend or modify the terms of material contracts, or change its fiscal year. If the Company is not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or it otherwise experiences an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If the 11 Company fails to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets pledged as collateral under the line of credit. The Company is currently in compliance with all such covenants. Legal Contingencies From time to time, the Company may become involved in legal proceedings or other contingencies in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is not presently involved in any legal proceeding or other contingency that, if determined adversely to it, would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that a material loss exceeding amounts already recognized may have been incurred as of the date of the balance sheets presented herein. Program Marketing and Sales Commitments Certain of the agreements entered into between the Company and its clients require the Company to commit to meet certain staffing and spending investment thresholds related to program marketing and sales activities. In addition, certain of the agreements require the Company to invest up to agreed-upon levels in marketing the programs to achieve specified program performance. The Company believes it is currently in compliance with all such commitments. Operating Leases The Company leases office facilities under non-cancelable operating leases in Maryland, New York, California, Colorado, North Carolina, Virginia and Hong Kong. In February 2017, the Company signed a lease for new office space in Brooklyn, New York, which is expected to be occupied beginning in 2018 after vacating the current offices in New York City. The lease covers three floors totaling approximately 80,000 square feet and will expire approximately eleven years and nine months after the lease commencement date, which will be no later than July 1, 2017. The Company also leases office equipment under non-cancelable leases. As of March31, 2017, the future minimum lease payments were as follows (in thousands): The future minimum lease payments due under non-cancelable operating lease arrangements contain fixed rent increases over the term of the lease. Rent expense on these operating leases is recognized over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. The excess of rent expense over actual lease payments is reported in non-current liabilities in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. The deferred rent liability related to these leases totaled $3.6million and $2.5 million as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. The Company does not have any subleases as of March31, 2017. Total rent expense from non-cancelable operating lease agreements was $1.9 million for the three months ended March31, 2017, and $1.0 million (net of sublease income of $0.1 million) for the three months ended March31, 2016. Fixed Payments to Clients The Company is contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of its clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. Currently, the future minimum fixed payments to the Company s clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights were as follows (in thousands): Contingent Payments to Clients The Company has entered into specific program agreements under which it would be obligated to make future minimum program payments to a client in the event that certain program metrics, partially associated with programs not yet launched, are not achieved. Due to the dependency of these calculations on future program launches, the amounts of any associated contingent payments cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As the Company cannot reasonably estimate the amounts of the contingent payments, and because it believes any contingent payments under this agreement would likely be immaterial, the Company has excluded such payments from the table above. 12 5. Stockholders Equity As of March31, 2017, the Company was authorized to issue 205,000,000 total shares of capital stock, consisting of 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At March31, 2017, the Company had reserved a total of 11,500,002 of its authorized shares of common stock for future issuance as follows: The compensation committee of the Company s board of directors, acting under authority delegated from the board of directors, granted in April2017 option awards to employees to purchase an aggregate of 510,335 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $39.66 and restricted stock unit awards for an aggregate of 447,493 shares of common stock, in each case under the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (as defined in Note 6 below). 6. Stock-Based Compensation The Company provides equity-based compensation awards to employees, independent contractors and directors as an effective means for attracting, retaining and motivating such individuals. The Company maintains two share-based compensation plans: the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan ) and the 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2008 Plan ). Upon the effective date of the 2014 Plan in January2014, the Company ceased using the 2008 Plan to grant new equity awards and began using the 2014 Plan for grants of new equity awards. The number of shares of the Company s common stock that may be issued under the 2014 Plan will automatically increase on January1stof each year, for a period of ten years, from January1, 2015 continuing through January1, 2024, by 5% of the total number of shares of the Company s common stock outstanding on December31stof the preceding calendar year, or a lesser number of shares as may be determined by the Company s board of directors. The shares available for issuance increased by 2,357,579 and 2,288,820 on January1, 2017 and 2016, respectively, pursuant to the automatic share reserve increase provision under the 2014 Plan. Stock-Based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards is included in the following line items in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations: Stock Options The following table summarizes the assumptions used for estimating the fair value of the stock options granted for the periods presented. The following is a summary of the stock option activity for the three months ended March31, 2017: 13 The total compensation cost related to the nonvested options not yet recognized as of March31, 2017 was $11.0million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.1years. The aggregate intrinsic value of the options exercised during the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 was $1.5million and $5.3million, respectively. Restricted Stock Units The following is a summary of restricted stock unit activity for the three months ended March31, 2017: The total compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted stock units not yet recognized as of March31, 2017 was $19.2million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.3years. 7. Net Loss per Share Diluted net loss per share is the same as basic net loss per share for all periods presented because the effects of potentially dilutive items were anti-dilutive, given the Company s net loss. The following securities have been excluded from the calculation of weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding because the effect is anti-dilutive for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016: Basic and diluted net loss per share is calculated as follows: 8. Segment and Geographic Information Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which discrete financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. The Company s CODM reviews the financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. As such, the Company s operations constitute a single operating segment and one reportable segment. The Company offers similar services to substantially all of its clients, which primarily represent well-recognized nonprofit colleges and universities in the United States. Substantially all assets were held and all revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented. 9. Subsequent Events As disclosed in the Company s Current Report on Form8-K filed on May2, 2017, the Company s wholly subsidiary K2017143886 South Africa Proprietary Limited ( 2U South Africa ), a company duly incorporated and registered in accordance with the laws of South Africa, entered into a share sale agreement (the Share Sale Agreement ), dated as of May1, 2017, by and among2U South Africa, Get Educated International Proprietary Limited, a private company duly incorporated in South Africa ( GetSmarter ), the shareholders of GetSmarter (the Sellers ) and Samuel Edward Paddock, as the sellers representative. Under the terms of the Share Sale Agreement, 2U South Africa will acquire all of the outstanding equity interests of GetSmarter (the Acquisition ) for approximately $103 million in cash (the Purchase Price ), plus a potential earn out payment of up to $20 million, subject to the achievement of certain financial milestones in calendar years 2017 and 2018. Following the completion of the Acquisition, GetSmarter will be a wholly owned subsidiary of 2U South Africa. The Purchase Price is subject to certain purchase price adjustments for cash, indebtedness, transaction expenses and other matters. The Acquisition is expected to close during the third quarter of 2017. Each of GetSmarter and the Sellers have made customary representations and warranties and covenants in the Share Sale Agreement and certain of the Sellers have agreed to indemnify 2U South Africa and the Company with respect to breaches of representations and warranties of GetSmarter and the Sellers, pre-closing taxes and certain other matters, in each case, subject to limitations. Certain of the Sellers have agreed to customary non-competition and non-solicitation obligations following closing of the Acquisition. The Acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals and third party consents, absence of any order or laws prohibiting completion of the Acquisition, the absence of a material adverse effect on GetSmarter and the accuracy of each party s representations and warranties (subject to certain qualifications), and each party s material compliance with their respective covenants and agreements contained in the Share Sale Agreement. Under the terms of the Share Sale Agreement, the Company has agreed to issue restricted stock unit awards over the shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company to certain employees and officers of GetSmarter. The awards will be subject to the 2014 2U,Inc. Equity Incentive Plan and will vest over either a two or four year period following closing of the Acquisition. The foregoing summary of the Share Sale Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Share Sale Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit2.1 and incorporated by reference herein. 14 Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016. Certain statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ), as amended. The words or phrases would be, will allow, intends to, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project, or similar expressions, or the negative of such words or phrases, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Because such statements include risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause or contribute to these differences, including those discussed in PartI,Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Statements made herein are as of the date of the filing of this Form10-Q with the SEC and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake, and we specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December31, 2016, which are included in our Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on February24, 2017. Overview We are a leading provider of cloud-based software-as-a-service, or SaaS, technology and technology-enabled services that enable leading nonprofit colleges and universities to deliver their degree programs at scale to students anywhere. Our SaaS technology consists of an innovative online learning environment, where our clients deliver their high-quality educational content to students in a live, intimate and engaging setting. We also provide a comprehensive suite of integrated applications, including a content management system and a customer relationship management system, that serve as the back-end infrastructure of the programs we enable. This technology is fused with technology-enabled services, including student acquisition services, content development services, student and faculty support, clinical placement services, and admissions applications advising services. This suite of technology tightly integrated with technology-enabled services, optimized with data analysis and machine learning techniques, provides a comprehensive set of capabilities that would otherwise require the purchase of multiple, disparate point solutions, and allows our clients programs to expand and operate at scale, providing the comprehensive infrastructure colleges and universities need to attract, enroll, educate, support and graduate their students. Our Business Model The key elements of our business model are described below. Revenue Drivers and Predictability Substantially all of our revenue is derived from revenue-share arrangements with our clients, under which we receive a contractually specified percentage of the amounts students pay them in tuition and other fees. Accordingly, the primary driver of our revenue growth is the increase in the number of student course enrollments in our clients programs. This in turn is influenced primarily by three factors: our ability to increase the number of programs offered by our clients, either by adding new clients or by expanding the number of client programs; our ability to identify and acquire prospective students for our clients programs; and our ability, and that of our clients, to retain the students who enroll in their programs. In the near term, we expect the primary drivers of our financial results to continue to be our first two programs with the University of Southern California, which are our longest running programs, which we launched in 2009 and 2010, and our programs with Simmons College, which launched between 2013 and 2016. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, 30% and 38%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from the first two University of Southern California programs. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, 18% and 16%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from the Simmons College programs. We expect that the first two DGPs with the University of Southern California and our programs with Simmons College will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue even though that portion should decline as other client programs become more mature and achieve higher enrollment levels. 15 Program Marketing and Sales Expense Our most significant expense in each fiscal period has been program marketing and sales expense, which relates primarily to student acquisition activities. We have primary responsibility for identifying qualified students for our clients programs, generating potential student interest in the programs and driving applications to the programs. While our clients make all admissions decisions, the number of students who enroll in our clients programs in any given period is significantly dependent on the amount we have spent on these student acquisition activities in prior periods. Accordingly, although most of our clients programs span multiple academic terms and, therefore, generate continued revenue beyond the term in which initial enrollments occur, we expect that we will need to continue to incur significant program marketing and sales expense for existing programs going forward to generate a continuous pipeline of new enrollments. For new programs, we begin incurring program marketing and sales costs as early as nine months prior to the start of a new client program. We typically identify prospective students for our clients programs between three months and two or more years before they ultimately enroll. For the students currently enrolled in our clients programs and those who have graduated, the average time from our initial prospective student acquisition to initial enrollment was approximately seven months. For the students who have graduated from these programs, the average time from initial enrollment to graduation was 22months. Based on the student retention rates and patterns we have observed in our clients programs, we estimate that, for our current programs, the average time from a student s initial enrollment to graduation will be approximately twoyears. Accordingly, our program marketing and sales expense in any period is an investment we make to generate revenue in future periods. Likewise, revenue generated in any period is largely attributable to the investment made in student acquisition activities in earlier periods. Because program marketing and sales expense in any period is almost entirely unrelated to revenue generated in that period, we do not believe it is meaningful to directly compare the two. We believe that the total revenue we will receive over time related to students who enroll in our clients programs as a result of current period program marketing and sales expense, will be significantly greater as a multiple of that current period expense than is implied by the multiple of current period revenue to current period program marketing and sales expense as expressed in our financial statements. Further, we believe that our program marketing and sales expense in future periods will generally decline as a percentage of the revenue reported in those same periods as our revenue base from returning students in existing programs increases. We continually manage our program marketing and sales expense to ensure that across our portfolio of client programs, our cost to acquire students for these programs is appropriate for our business model. We use a ratio of attrition adjusted lifetime revenue of a student, or LTR, to the total cost to acquire that student, or TCA, as the measure of our marketing efficiency and to determine how much we are willing to spend to acquire an additional student for any program. The calculations included in this ratio include certain assumptions. For any period, we know what we spent on program sales and marketing and therefore, can accurately calculate the ratio s denominator. However, given the time lag between when we incur our program marketing and sales expense and when we receive revenue related to students enrolled based on that expense, we have to incorporate forecasts of student enrollments and retention into our calculation of the ratio s numerator, which is our estimate of future revenue related to that period s expense. We use the significant amount of data we have on the effectiveness of various marketing channels, student attrition and other factors to inform our forecasts and are continually testing the assumptions underlying these forecasts against actual results to give us confidence that our forecasts are reasonable. The LTR to TCA ratio may vary from program to program depending on the degree being offered, where that program is in its lifecycle and whether we enable the same or similar degrees at other universities. Period-to-Period Fluctuations Our revenue, cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to variations driven by the academic schedules of our clients programs. These programs generally start classes for new and returning students an average of four times per year. Classstarts are not necessarily evenly spaced throughout the year, do not necessarily correspond to the traditional academic calendar and may vary from year to year. As a result, the number of classes our client programs have in session, and therefore the number of students enrolled, will vary from month to month and quarter to quarter, leading to variability in our revenue. Our clients programs often have academic terms that straddle two fiscal quarters. Our clients generally pay us when they have billed tuition and specified fees to their students, which is typically early in the academic term, and once the drop/add period has passed. We recognize the related revenue ratably over the course of the academic term, beginning on the first day of classes through the last. Because we generally receive payments from our clients prior to our ability to recognize the majority of those amounts as revenue, we record deferred revenue at each balance sheet date equal to the excess of the amounts we have billed or received from our clients over the amounts we have recognized as revenue as of that date. For these reasons, our cash flows typically vary considerably from quarter to quarter and our cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue typically fluctuate between quarterly balance sheet dates. Our expense levels also fluctuate from quarter to quarter, driven primarily by our program marketing and sales activity. We typically reduce our paid search and other program marketing and sales efforts during late Novemberand Decemberbecause these efforts are less productive during the holiday season. This generally results in lower total program marketing and sales expense during the fourth quarter. In addition, because we begin spending on program marketing and sales, and, to a lesser extent, services and support as much 16 as nine months prior to the start of classes for a new client program, these costs as a percentage of revenue fluctuate, sometimes significantly, depending on the timing of new client programs and anticipated program launch dates. Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations First Quarter 2017 Highlights Revenue was $64.8 million, an increase of 36.6% from $47.4 million in the first quarter of 2016. Net loss was $(3.4) million, or $(0.07) per share, compared to $(3.4) million or $(0.07) per share, in the first quarter of 2016. Adjusted EBITDA was $3.9 million, compared to $2.2 million in the first quarter of 2016. Revenue Substantially all of our revenue consists of a contractually specified percentage of the amounts our clients bill to their students for tuition and fees, less credit card fees and other specified charges we have agreed to exclude in certain of our client contracts, which we refer to as net program proceeds. Most of our contracts have 10 to 15 year initial terms. We recognize revenue ratably over the service period, which we define as the first through the last day of classes for each academic term in a client s program. We establish a refund allowance for our share of tuition and fees ultimately uncollected by our clients. In addition to providing access to our SaaS technology, we provide technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities and facilitating in-program field placements. We have determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, the multiple deliverables within our arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Accordingly, we consider all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting and we recognize revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. We generally receive payments from our clients early in each academic term, prior to completion of the service period. We record these advance payments as deferred revenue until the services are delivered or until our obligations are otherwise met, at which time we recognize the revenue. As of each balance sheet date, deferred revenue is a current liability and represents the excess amounts we have billed or received over the amounts we have recognized as revenue in the consolidated statements of operations as of that date. Revenue for the three months ended March31, 2017 was $64.8 million, an increase of $17.4 million, or 36.6%, from $47.4 million for the same period of 2016. The increase was primarily attributable to a 34.7% increase in period-over-period full course equivalent enrollments in our client programs, from 17,709 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to 23,857 for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Of the increase in full course equivalent enrollments, 808, or 13.1%, were attributable to client DGPs launched during the 12 months ended March 31, 2017. Also contributing to the increase, adjustments to student refund allowances resulted in higher period-over-period revenues of $0.5 million. Costs and Expenses Costs and expenses consist of servicing and support costs, technology and content development costs, program marketing and sales expenses and general and administrative expenses. To support our anticipated growth, we expect to continue to hire new employees (which will increase both our cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs), increase our program promotion and student acquisition efforts, expand our technology infrastructure and increase our other program support capabilities. As a result, we expect our costs and expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we achieve economies of scale through the expansion of our business. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is a component of compensation cost within each of the four cost and expense categories described above. In early 2014, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved a framework for granting equity awards under our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan. Under this framework, the majority of our equity awards are made on or around April 1 of each year and typically have four-year vesting periods. As such, non-cash stock-based compensation expense is expected to continue to increase year-over-year until four years after the initial early-2014 grants. Servicing and support. Servicing and support expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs related to program management and operations, as well as costs for technical support for our SaaS technology and faculty and student support. It includes costs to facilitate in-program field placements, student immersions and other student enrichment experiences and costs to assist our clients with their state compliance requirements. It also includes software licensing, telecommunications and other costs to provide access to our SaaS technology for our clients and their students. Servicing and support. Servicing and support costs for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were $10.9 million, an increase of $1.4 million, or 14.9%, from $9.5 million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to a $1.3 million increase in cash compensation costs as we increased our headcount in this area by 17% to serve a growing number of students and faculty in existing and new client programs. As a percentage of revenue, 17 servicing and support costs decreased from 20.0% for the three months ended March31, 2016 to 16.8% for the same period of 2017, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Technology and content development. Technology and content development expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation and outsourced services costs related to the ongoing improvement and maintenance of our SaaS technology, and the developed content for our client programs. It also includes the costs to support our internal infrastructure, including our cloud-based server usage. Additionally, it includes the associated amortization expense related to capitalized technology and content development costs, as well as hosting and other costs associated with maintaining our SaaS technology in a cloud environment. Technology and content development. Technology and content development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were $9.2 million, an increase of $1.9 million, or 26.5%, from $7.3 million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to the increased number of courses that have been developed for our client programs, which resulted in higher amortization expense associated with our capitalized technology and content development costs of $0.8 million. Additionally, cash compensation costs (net of amounts capitalized for technology and content development) increased by $0.5 million, as we increased our headcount in this area by 27% to support the launch of new client programs and the scaling of existing programs. The remainder of the increase in technology and content development costs related to cloud-based hosting services, non-cash compensation and travel and related expenses. As a percentage of revenue, technology and content development costs decreased from 15.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to 14.2% for the same period of 2017, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense consists primarily of costs related to student acquisition. This includes the cost of online advertising and prospective student generation, as well as cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for our program marketing, search engine optimization, marketing analytics and admissions application counseling personnel. We expense all costs related to program marketing and sales as they are incurred. Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $34.7 million, an increase of $11.0 million, or 46.6%, from $23.7 million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to a $7.7 million increase in direct internet marketing costs to acquire students for our clients programs. Additionally, cash compensation costs increased by $2.2 million as we increased our headcount in this area by 20% to acquire students for, and drive revenue growth in, new client programs. The remainder of the increase in program marketing and sales expense primarily related to rent expense in connection with our new Maryland headquarters lease, travel and related expenses, non-cash stock-based compensation and other costs to support our programs marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, program marketing and sales expense increased from 49.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to 53.5% for the same period of 2017, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. General and administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for employees in our executive, administrative, finance and accounting, legal, communications and human resources functions. Additional expenses include external legal, accounting and other professional fees, telecommunications charges and other corporate costs such as insurance and travel that are not related to another function. General and administrative. General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $13.7 million, an increase of $3.3 million, or 30.8%, from $10.4 million for the same period of 2016. This was due primarily to an increase in employee education benefits of $0.9 million and higher cash compensation costs of $0.9 million as we increased our headcount in this area by 25% to support our growing business. Additionally, consulting costs increased by $0.6 million primarily driven by the integration of our enterprise resource planning system, and our depreciation and amortization expense increased by $0.5 million primarily due to placing more fixed assets into service in connection with the commencement of our new Maryland headquarters lease, as well as accelerated depreciation of certain facility-related assets in connection with our headquarters relocation. The remainder of the increase in general and administrative expense primarily related to higher legal, accounting and other professional fees. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expense decreased from 22.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 to 21.1% for the same period of 2017, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists of interest income, interest expense and other expenses. Interest income is derived from interest received on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense consists primarily of the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our line of credit. Total other income (expense) for the three months ended March31, 2017 was $0.2million, an increase of $0.1million, or 199.1%, from $0.1million for the same period of 2016. This increase was driven by higher interest income associated with our cash balances. 18 Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Income tax expense consists of U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes. To date, we have not been required to pay U.S. federal income taxes because of our current and accumulated net operating losses. We incurred immaterial state and foreign income tax liabilities for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016. Consolidated Statements of Operations as a Percentage of Revenue The following table sets forth selected consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods indicated. Key Business and Financial Performance Metrics We use a number of key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. In addition to adjusted EBITDA, which we discuss below, we discuss revenue and the components of loss from operations in the section above entitled Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations. Additionally, we utilize other key metrics to evaluate the success of our growth strategy, including measures we refer to as platform revenue retention rate and full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs. Platform Revenue Retention Rate We measure our platform revenue retention rate for a particular period by first identifying the group of programs that our clients launched with our solutions before the beginning of the prior year comparative period. We then calculate our platform revenue retention rate by comparing the revenue we recognized for this group of programs in the reporting period to the revenue we recognized for the same group of programs in the prior year comparative period, expressed as a percentage of the revenue we recognized for the group in the prior year comparative period. The following table sets forth our platform revenue retention rate for the periods presented, as well as the number of programs included in the platform revenue retention rate calculation. For all of these periods, our platform revenue retention rate was greater than 100% because we had no programs terminate and full course equivalent enrollments in the aggregate increased year-over-year. There is no direct correlation between the platform revenue retention rate and the number of programs included in the calculation of that rate. However, there may be a correlation between the platform revenue retention rate and the average maturity of the programs included in the calculation of that rate because newer programs tend to have higher percentage growth rates. (1) Reflects the number of programs operating both in the reported period and in the prior year comparative period. 19 Full Course Equivalent Enrollments in Our Clients Programs We measure full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs by determining, for each of the courses offered during a particular period, the number of students enrolled in that course multiplied by the percentage of the course completed during that period. We use this metric to account for the fact that many courses offered by our clients straddle two or more fiscal quarters. For example, if a course had 25 enrolled students and 40% of the course was completed during a particular period, we would count the course as having 10 full course equivalent enrollments for that period. Any individual student may be enrolled in more than one course during a period. Average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment represents our weighted-average revenue per course across the mix of courses being offered in our client programs during a period. This number is derived by dividing our total revenue for a period by the number of full course equivalent enrollments during that same period. This amount may vary from period to period depending on the academic calendars of our clients, the relative growth rates of programs with varying tuition levels, the launch of new programs with higher or lower than average net tuition costs and annual tuition increases instituted by our clients. As a part of our growth strategy, we are actively targeting new graduate-level clients in academic disciplines for which we have existing programs. Over time, this strategy is likely to reduce our average revenue per full course equivalent. However, we believe this approach will enable us to leverage our program marketing investments across multiple client programs within specific academic disciplines, significantly decreasing student acquisition costs within those disciplines and more than offsetting any decline in average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment. The following table sets forth the full course equivalent enrollments and average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment in our clients DGPs for the periods presented. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA represents our earnings before net interest (income) expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted to eliminate stock-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash item. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S.GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with U.S.GAAP. In addition, adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we do. We prepare adjusted EBITDA to eliminate the impact of stock-based compensation expense, which we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. Our use of adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S.GAAP. Some of these limitations are: although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other U.S.GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other U.S. GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: 20 Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity In March2017, we amended our credit agreement for a revolving line of credit to extend the maturity date through July31, 2017. No amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of March31, 2017 or December31, 2016. Certain of our operating lease agreements entered into prior to March31, 2017 require security deposits in the form of cash or an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit. As of March31, 2017, we have entered into standby letters of credit totaling $11.5 million, as security deposits for the applicable leased facilities. These letters of credit reduced the aggregate amount we may borrow under our revolving line of credit to $13.5 million. Under this revolving line of credit, we have the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, we may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, we may make interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if we repay such borrowed amounts before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to our compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that we achieve specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some of our client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures our short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, our adjusted quick ratios were 5.40 and 5.43, respectively. The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in our assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with our affiliates, amend or modify the terms of our material contracts, or change our fiscal year. If we are not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or we otherwise experience an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If we fail to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets we have pledged as collateral under the line of credit. We are currently in compliance with all such covenants. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: 21 Operating Activities For the three months ended March31, 2017, net cash used in operating activities of $11.6million consisted of a net loss of $3.4 million and a $15.7million net cash outflow from changes in working capital, partially offset by $7.5million in non-cash items. The decrease in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of a $20.8 million increase in accounts receivable, a $7.7 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits and other changes in working capital of $2.9 million, partially offset by an $8.6 million increase in deferred revenue and a $7.1 million increase in accounts payable. Non-cash items consisted of non-cash stock-based compensation charges of $3.9 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $3.6 million. For the three months ended March31, 2016, net cash provided by operating activities of $6.3 million consisted of $5.7 million in noncash items and a $4.0 million net cash inflow from changes in working capital, partially offset by a net loss of $3.4 million. Non-cash items consisted of non-cash stock-based compensation charges of $3.5 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $2.1 million. The increase in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of a $7.4 million increase in deferred revenue, a $2.3 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $1.8 million increase in accounts payable and a $0.4 million change in other assets and other liabilities. These increases were partially offset by a $6.5 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits and a $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Investing Activities For the three months ended March31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities of $14.3 million consisted of $9.4 million of purchases of property and equipment, primarily related to leasehold improvement expenditures related to our new office operating leases. Additionally, costs related to internal-use software and content developed to support a greater number of launched programs were $4.9 million. For the three months ended March31, 2016, net cash used in investing activities of $4.0 million consisted primarily of costs related to internal-use software and content developed to support a greater number of launched programs. Financing Activities For the three months ended March31, 2017, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.1million, consisting of $0.5 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.4 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to net settlement releases of restricted stock units. For the three months ended March31, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.7million, consisting of $1.0 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.3 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock units. Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements During the three months ended March31, 2017, we had new capital asset additions of $20.0 million, which was comprised of $11.1 million of leasehold improvements, $4.8 million in capitalized technology and content development costs and $4.1 million of other property and equipment. The $20.0 million increase primarily consisted of $14.3 million in cash capital expenditures and $5.4 million in landlord funded leasehold improvements. For the full year of 2017, we expect new capital asset additions of approximately $44 to $49 million, of which approximately $6 to $8 million will be funded by landlord leasehold improvement allowances. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have non-cancelable operating leases for our office space, and we are also contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of our university clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. We have a $25.0million line of credit from Comerica Bank (with letters of credit reducing the aggregate amount we may borrow to $13.5 million) and no amounts were outstanding as of March31, 2017. See Note4 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 and Legal Proceedings contained in PartII,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for additional information regarding contingencies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note2 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for a discussion of FASB s recent accounting pronouncements and their effect on us. 22Item 1. Financial Statements 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited, in thousands, except share and per share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity (unaudited, in thousands, except share amounts) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 2U,Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited, in thousands) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 2U,Inc. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Recent Accounting Pronouncements 2U,Inc. (the Company ) was incorporated as 2TorInc. in the State of Delaware in April2008 and changed its name to 2U,Inc. on October11, 2012. Under long-term agreements, the Company provides an integrated solution comprised of cloud-based software-as-a-service ( SaaS ), fused with technology-enabled services (together, the Platform ), that allows leading colleges and universities to deliver high-quality digital degree programs, extending the universities reach and distinguishing their brands. The Company s SaaS technology consists of (i)a comprehensive learning environment ( Online Campus ), which acts as the hub for all student and faculty academic and social interaction, and (ii)a comprehensive suite of integrated applications, which the Company uses to launch, operate and support the Company s clients programs. The Company also provides a suite of technology-enabled services optimized with data analysis and machine learning techniques that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities, and facilitating in-program field placements. Basis of Presentation The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with: (i)generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( U.S.GAAP ) for interim financial information; (ii)the instructions to Form10-Q; and (iii)the guidance of Rule10-01 of Regulation S-X under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for financial statements required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). They include the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of the Company, including its wholly owned subsidiaries. As permitted under such rules, certain notes and other financial information normally required by GAAP have been condensed or omitted. The Company believes the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the Company s financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as of and for the periods presented herein. The Company s results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 may not be indicative of the Company s future results. These condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and should be read in conjunction with the Company s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from the audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP. Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. Use of Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S.GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported herein. The Company bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be affected by changes in those estimates. The Company evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In November2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No.2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash, a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force. The ASU requires companies to explain the changes in the combined total of restricted and unrestricted cash balances in the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. Adoption of the ASU is retrospective to each prior period presented. The Company early adopted this ASU in the second quarter of 2017. Adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the presentation of prior periods. In August2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No.2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The ASU addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice surrounding how certain transactions are classified in 7 the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this standard will have on its consolidated statements of cash flows and related disclosures. In March2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The ASU simplifies various aspects related to the accounting and presentation of share-based payments. The guidance also allows employers to withhold shares to satisfy minimum statutory withholding requirements up to the employees maximum individual tax rate without causing the award to be classified as a liability. Additionally, the guidance stipulates that cash paid by an employer to a taxing authority when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes should be classified as a financing activity on the statement of cash flows, and allows companies to elect an accounting policy to either estimate the share-based award forfeitures (and expense) or account for forfeitures (and expense) as they occur. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2017. In connection with the adoption of this standard, the Company elected to no longer apply an estimated forfeiture rate and will instead account for forfeitures as they occur. Accordingly, the Company applied the modified retrospective adoption approach, which resulted in a $0.1 million cumulative-effect reduction to retained earnings with an offset to additional paid-in-capital. In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU introduces a model for lessees requiring most leases to be reported on the balance sheet. Lessor accounting remains substantially similar to current U.S. GAAP. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that this ASU will have on its consolidated financial position and related disclosures, and believes that this standard may materially increase its other non-current assets and non-current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets in order to record right-of-use assets and related liabilities for its existing operating leases. In August2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15,Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. The ASU requires that an entity s management evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entity s ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods ending afterDecember15, 2016. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2017. Adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Company s financial reporting process. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S.GAAP when it becomes effective. In July2015, the FASB deferred the mandatory effective date of this ASU by one year from January1, 2017 to January1, 2018. Early application is permitted, but not prior to the original effective date of January1, 2017. Subsequently, the FASB has issued the following standards related to ASU No.2014-09: ASU No.2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations; ASU No.2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing; ASU No.2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients; and ASU No.2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The Company must adopt ASU No.2016-08, ASU No.2016-10, ASU No.2016-12 and ASU No.2016-20 with ASU No.2014-09 (collectively, the new revenue standard ). The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company has assembled a multidisciplinary team that includes independent third-party consultants to assist with the implementation of the new revenue standard and has made progress with its assessment of the impact of the new revenue standard during the second quarter of 2017. While the Company has not completed its assessment of the impact of adopting the new revenue standard, the Company is in the process of reviewing the current accounting policies and practices to identify potential differences that could result from applying the requirements of the new revenue standard to its revenue contracts and expects to complete the assessment effort by the end of the third quarter of 2017. Over the second half of 2017, the Company will complete the quantification of any identified impacts, the evaluation and implementation of any necessary changes to its business processes and controls in order to support revenue recognition and disclosure under the new revenue standard, and the determination of which transition approach will be applied. The Company will provide additional updates on progress made and further conclusions in its third quarter report on Form 10-Q to be filed in 2017, and adopt the new revenue standard on January 1, 2018. 8 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All of the Company s cash is held at financial institutions that management believes to be of high credit quality. The Company s bank accounts exceed federally insured limits at times. The Company has not experienced any losses on cash to date. To manage accounts receivable risk, the Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts, if needed. During the three months ended June30, 2017, four clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $19.1 million, $12.1 million, $6.9 million and $6.8 million, which equals 29%, 19%, 11% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. During the three months ended June30, 2016, three clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $17.6 million, $9.1 million and $5.1 million, which equals 36%, 18% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. During the six months ended June30, 2017, four clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $38.8 million, $23.8 million, $13.8 million and $13.2 million, which equals 30%, 18%, 11% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. During the six months ended June30, 2016, three clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s revenue, as follows: $35.5 million, $16.9 million and $10.2 million, which equals 37%, 17% and 11% of total revenue, respectively. As of June30, 2017, two clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s accounts receivable balance, as follows: $14.1 million and $5.3 million, which equals 61% and 23% of total accounts receivable, respectively. As of December31, 2016, two clients each accounted for 10% or more of the Company s accounts receivable balance, as follows: $5.8 million and $1.4 million, which equals 74% and 17% of total accounts receivable, respectively. Restricted Cash Restricted cash includes a 1.2 billion South African rand denominated restricted cash balance at June 30, 2017, which was held in connection with the Company s acquisition of GetSmarter on July 1, 2017, as further discussed in Note 10 below. Non-cash Investing and Financing Activities During the six months ended June30, 2017, the Company had new capital asset additions of $31.6 million, which was comprised of $15.6 million of leasehold improvements, $10.5 million in capitalized technology and content development costs and $5.5 million of other property and equipment. The $31.6 million increase consisted of $26.3 million in cash capital expenditures, with the remainder primarily comprised of landlord funded leasehold improvements. During the six months ended June30, 2016, the Company had new capital asset additions of $9.1 million, which was primarily comprised of capitalized technology and content development costs. The increase consisted almost entirely of cash capital expenditures. Government Grants Government grants awarded to the Company in the form of forgivable loans are recorded as deferred government grant obligations within long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets until all contingencies are resolved and the grant is determined to be realized. Comprehensive Loss The Company s net loss equals comprehensive loss for all periods presented as the Company has no material components of other comprehensive income. 3. Capitalized Technology and Content Development Costs Capitalized technology and content development costs consisted of the following as of: 9 Amortization expense related to capitalized technology was $0.8 million and $0.5 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Amortization expense related to capitalized technology was $1.5 million and $1.0 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company re corded amortization expense related to capitalized content development costs of $1.8 million and $1.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company recorded amortization expense related to capitalized content development costs of $3.5 million and $2.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of June30, 2017, the estimated future amortization expense for the capitalized technology and content development costs placed in service is as follows (in thousands): 4. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Contingencies From time to time, the Company may become involved in legal proceedings or other contingencies in the ordinary course of its business. The Company is not presently involved in any legal proceeding or other contingency that, if determined adversely to it, would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that there is a reasonable possibility that a material loss exceeding amounts already recognized may have been incurred as of the date of the balance sheets presented herein. Operating Leases The Company leases office facilities under non-cancelable operating leases in Maryland, New York, California, Colorado, North Carolina, Virginia and Hong Kong. In February 2017, the Company signed a lease for new office space in Brooklyn, New York, which is expected to be occupied beginning in 2018. The lease covers three floors totaling approximately 80,000 square feet, requires total future minimum lease payments of approximately $51.8 million and will expire approximately eleven years and nine months after the July 1, 2017 lease commencement date. Related to this lease, the Company could be eligible for certain state and local incentives that are dependent on construction build, employment levels, the Company s taxable income and other factors. The Company is in the process of applying for such eligibility, but is not currently able to assess the potential benefit these incentives may yield over the lease term. The Company also leases office equipment under non-cancelable leases. Fixed Payments to Clients The Company is contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of its clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company entered into new agreements with certain of its clients for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights that, as of June 30, 2017, require future fixed payments totaling $4.8 million, the majority of which were paid in July 2017. 10 5. Debt Line of Credit In June2017, the Company and Comerica amended its credit agreement for a $25.0 million revolving line of credit pursuant to which, among other things, Comerica consented to the Company s acquisition of GetSmarter and the Company s formation of certain subsidiaries in connection therewith, and the parties extended the maturity date through July31, 2017. On July31, 2017, the Company further amended its credit agreement to extend the maturity date through September29, 2017. No amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of June30, 2017 or December31, 2016. The Company intends to extend this agreement under comparable terms, prior to expiration. Certain of the Company s operating lease agreements entered into prior to June30, 2017 require security deposits in the form of cash or an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit. As of June30, 2017, the Company has entered into standby letters of credit totaling $11.5 million as security deposits for the applicable leased facilities. Additionally, in June2017, the Company entered into standby letters of credit totaling $3.5 million in connection with two government grants, as described later in this Note. These letters of credit reduced the aggregate amount the Company may borrow under its revolving line of credit to $10.0 million. Government Grants On June22, 2017, the Company executed a conditional loan agreement and received financing from Prince George s County, Maryland that provides for a grant in the form of a forgivable loan of $1.5 million. The financing was secured by a letter of credit pursuant to the Company s line of credit with Comerica Bank. The conditional loan obligation is recorded as Deferred government grant obligations on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The proceeds from this loan are to be used in connection with the relocation of 2U s headquarters, leasehold improvements thereto and other purposes. The loan has a maturity date of June 22, 2027, and bears interest at a rate of 3% per annum. If 2U does not employ at least 650 employees at its Lanham headquarters at any time during the term of the loan period or otherwise defaults on the loan, the entire principal balance, plus accrued interest, will become due and payable. If 2U does not employ at least 1,300 employees at its Lanham headquarters by January1, 2020, the Company will be required to repay a prorated portion of the loan ($2,252 per employee, for every employee below 1,300), plus interest. On June27, 2017, 2U Harkins Road LLC (a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) executed a loan agreement and received financing from the Department of Commerce (a principal department of the State of Maryland) that provides for a grant in the form of a forgivable loan of $2.0 million. The financing was secured by a letter of credit pursuant to the Company s line of credit with Comerica Bank. The conditional loan obligation is recorded as Deferred government grant obligations on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The proceeds from this loan are to be used in connection with the relocation of 2U s headquarters, leasehold improvements thereto and other purposes. The loan has a maturity date of December31, 2026, and bears interest at a rate of 3% per annum. If 2U does not employ at least 650 employees at its Lanham headquarters at any time during the term of the loan period or otherwise defaults on the loan, the entire principal balance, plus accrued interest, will become due and payable. If 2U does not employ at least 1,600 employees at its Lanham headquarters by December31, 2020, and at each December31 st thereafter through 2026, the Company will be required to repay a prorated portion of the loan ($2,105 per employee, for every employee below 1,600), plus interest. 6 . Stockholders Equity As of June30, 2017, the Company was authorized to issue 205,000,000 total shares of capital stock, consisting of 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At June30, 2017, the Company had reserved a total of 10,988,222 of its authorized shares of common stock for future issuance as follows: The Compensation Committee of the Company s board of directors, acting under authority delegated from the board of directors, granted in July2017 option awards to employees to purchase an aggregate of 34,019 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $46.32 and restricted stock unit awards for an aggregate of 132,507 shares of common stock, in each case under the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (as defined in Note 7 below). 7. Stock-Based Compensation The Company provides equity-based compensation awards to employees, independent contractors and directors as an effective means for attracting, retaining and motivating such individuals. The Company maintains two share-based compensation plans: the 2014 11 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan ) and the 2008 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2008 Plan ). Upon the effective date of the 2014 Plan in January2014, the Company ceased using the 2008 Plan to grant new equity awards and began using the 2014 Plan for grants of new equity awards. The number of shares of the Company s common stock that may be issued under the 2014 Plan will automatically increase on January1stof each year, for a period of ten years, from January1, 2015 continuing through January1, 2024, by 5% of the total number of shares of the Company s common stock outstanding on December31stof the preceding calendar year, or a lesser number of shares as may be determined by the Company s board of directors. The shares available for issuance increased by 2,357,579 and 2,288,820 on January1, 2017 and 2016, respectively, pursuant to the automatic share reserve increase provision under the 2014 Plan. Stock-Based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards is included in the following line items in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations: Stock Options The Company values stock options using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model, which requires the input of subjective assumptions, including the risk-free interest rate, expected life of the option, expected stock price volatility and dividend yield. Prior to June30, 2017, expected volatility was based on historical volatilities for publicly traded stock of comparable companies over the estimated expected life of the stock options. Effective June 30, 2017, expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of 2U common stock over the estimated expected life of the stock options. The following table summarizes the assumptions used for estimating the fair value of the stock options granted for the periods presented. The following is a summary of the stock option activity for the six months ended June30, 2017: 12 The total compensation cost related to the nonvested options not yet recognized as of June30, 2017 was $18.8million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.5years. The aggregate intrinsic value of the options exercised during the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 was $8.6million and $10.5million, respectively. Restricted Stock Units The following is a summary of restricted stock unit activity for the six months ended June30, 2017: The total compensation cost related to the nonvested restricted stock units not yet recognized as of June30, 2017 was $33.3million and will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.6years. Employee Stock Purchase Plan On June5, 2017, 2U s stockholders voted upon and approved the Company s 2017 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ESPP ). The ESPP provides for (i)consecutive six-month offering periods (commencing each January1 and July1) and (ii)that the purchase price for shares of 2U common stock purchased under the ESPP will not be less than 85% of the fair market value of the Company s common stock on the purchase date. The Compensation Committee of the Company s Board of Directors may exercise its discretion, subject to certain conditions, to determine that the purchase price will be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of 2U s common stock on the purchase date or the fair market value of 2U s common stock on the first day of the offering period. The first offering period is expected to begin on January1, 2018, and will end on June30, 2018. Eligible employees will be able to select a rate of payroll deduction between 1% and 15% of their salary or wage compensation received from the Company as in effect at the start of the offering period, subject to a maximum payroll deduction per calendar year of $25,000. The ESPP is intended to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section423 of the Internal Revenue Code. A maximum of 1,000,000 shares of 2U s common stock may be issued under the ESPP, subject to adjustments for certain capital transactions. 8. Net Loss per Share Diluted net loss per share is the same as basic net loss per share for all periods presented because the effects of potentially dilutive items were anti-dilutive, given the Company s net loss. The following securities have been excluded from the calculation of weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding because the effect is anti-dilutive for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016: Basic and diluted net loss per share is calculated as follows: 13 9. Segment and Geographic Information Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which discrete financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. The Company s CODM reviews the financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. As such, the Company s operations constitute a single operating segment and one reportable segment. The Company offers similar services to substantially all of its clients, which primarily represent well-recognized nonprofit colleges and universities in the United States. Substantially all assets were held and all revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented, with the exception of a 1.2 billion South African rand denominated restricted cash balance at June30, 2017, which was held in connection with the Company s acquisition of GetSmarter, as further discussed in Note 10 below. 10. Subsequent Events On July1, 2017, the Company, through a wholly owned subsidiary ( 2U South Africa ), completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding equity interests of GetSmarter pursuant to a Share Sale Agreement, dated as of May1, 2017 (the Share Sale Agreement ), as amended by an Addendum, dated as of June29, 2017, for a purchase price of approximately $103.0 million in cash. The purchase price is subject to post-closing adjustments pursuant to the terms of the Share Sale Agreement. In addition, 2U South Africa agreed to pay a potential earn out payment of up to $20.0 million, subject to the achievement of certain financial milestones in calendar years 2017 and 2018. Under the terms of the Share Sale Agreement, 2U has issued restricted stock units for shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company to certain employees and officers of GetSmarter.These awards are subject to the 2014 2U,Inc. Equity Incentive Plan and will vest over either a two (2)or four (4)year period.As a result of the transaction, GetSmarter became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. 14 Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016. Certain statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ), as amended. The words or phrases would be, will allow, intends to, will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project, or similar expressions, or the negative of such words or phrases, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. Because such statements include risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many factors could cause or contribute to these differences, including those discussed in PartI,Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Statements made herein are as of the date of the filing of this Form10-Q with the SEC and should not be relied upon as of any subsequent date. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake, and we specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect occurrences, developments, unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statement. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December31, 2016, which are included in our Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on February24, 2017. Overview We are a leading provider of cloud-based software-as-a-service, or SaaS, technology and technology-enabled services that enable leading nonprofit colleges and universities to deliver their degree programs at scale to students anywhere. Our SaaS technology consists of an innovative online learning environment, where our clients deliver their high-quality educational content to students in a live, intimate and engaging setting. We also provide a comprehensive suite of integrated applications, including a content management system and a customer relationship management system, that serve as the back-end infrastructure of the programs we enable. This technology is fused with technology-enabled services, including student acquisition services, content development services, student and faculty support, clinical placement services, and admissions applications advising services . This suite of technology tightly integrated with technology-enabled services, optimized with data analysis and machine learning techniques, provides a comprehensive set of capabilities that would otherwise require the purchase of multiple, disparate point solutions, and allows our clients programs to expand and operate at scale, providing the comprehensive infrastructure colleges and universities need to attract, enroll, educate, support and graduate their students. Our Business Model The key elements of our business model are described below. Revenue Drivers and Predictability Substantially all of our revenue is derived from revenue-share arrangements with our clients, under which we receive a contractually specified percentage of the amounts students pay them in tuition and other fees. Accordingly, the primary driver of our revenue growth is the increase in the number of student course enrollments in our clients programs. This in turn is influenced primarily by three factors: our ability to increase the number of programs offered by our clients, either by adding new clients or by expanding the number of client programs; our ability to identify and acquire prospective students for our clients programs; and our ability, and that of our clients, to retain the students who enroll in their programs. In the near term, we expect the primary drivers of our financial results to continue to be our first two programs with the University of Southern California, which are our longest running programs, which we launched in 2009 and 2010, and our programs with Simmons College, which launched between 2013 and 2016. For the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, 29% and 36%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from the first two University of Southern California programs. For the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, 19% and 18%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from the Simmons College programs. For the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, 29% and 37%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from the first two University of Southern California 15 programs. For the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, 18% and 17%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from the Simmons College programs. We expect that the first two programs with the University of Southern California and our programs with Simmons College will continue to account for a large portion of our revenue even though that portion should decline as other client programs become more mature and achieve higher enrollment levels. Program Marketing and Sales Expense Our most significant expense in each fiscal period has been program marketing and sales expense, which relates primarily to student acquisition activities. We have primary responsibility for identifying qualified students for our clients programs, generating potential student interest in the programs and driving applications to the programs. While our clients make all admissions decisions, the number of students who enroll in our clients programs in any given period is significantly dependent on the amount we have spent on these student acquisition activities in prior periods. Accordingly, although most of our clients programs span multiple academic terms and, therefore, generate continued revenue beyond the term in which initial enrollments occur, we expect that we will need to continue to incur significant program marketing and sales expense for existing programs going forward to generate a continuous pipeline of new enrollments. For new programs, we begin incurring program marketing and sales costs as early as nine months prior to the start of a new client program. We typically identify prospective students for our clients programs between three months and two or more years before they ultimately enroll. For the students currently enrolled in our clients programs and those who have graduated, the average time from our initial prospective student acquisition to initial enrollment was approximately seven months. For the students who have graduated from these programs, the average time from initial enrollment to graduation was 22months. Based on the student retention rates and patterns we have observed in our clients programs, we estimate that, for our current programs, the average time from a student s initial enrollment to graduation will be approximately twoyears. Accordingly, our program marketing and sales expense in any period is an investment we make to generate revenue in future periods. Likewise, revenue generated in any period is largely attributable to the investment made in student acquisition activities in earlier periods. Because program marketing and sales expense in any period is almost entirely unrelated to revenue generated in that period, we do not believe it is meaningful to directly compare the two. We believe that the total revenue we will receive over time related to students who enroll in our clients programs as a result of current period program marketing and sales expense, will be significantly greater as a multiple of that current period expense than is implied by the multiple of current period revenue to current period program marketing and sales expense as expressed in our financial statements. Further, we believe that our program marketing and sales expense in future periods will generally decline as a percentage of the revenue reported in those same periods as our revenue base from returning students in existing programs increases. We continually manage our program marketing and sales expense to ensure that across our portfolio of client programs, our cost to acquire students for these programs is appropriate for our business model. We use a ratio of attrition adjusted lifetime revenue of a student, or LTR, to the total cost to acquire that student, or TCA, as the measure of our marketing efficiency and to determine how much we are willing to spend to acquire an additional student for any program. The calculations included in this ratio include certain assumptions. For any period, we know what we spent on program sales and marketing and therefore, can accurately calculate the ratio s denominator. However, given the time lag between when we incur our program marketing and sales expense and when we receive revenue related to students enrolled based on that expense, we have to incorporate forecasts of student enrollments and retention into our calculation of the ratio s numerator, which is our estimate of future revenue related to that period s expense. We use the significant amount of data we have on the effectiveness of various marketing channels, student attrition and other factors to inform our forecasts and are continually testing the assumptions underlying these forecasts against actual results to give us confidence that our forecasts are reasonable. The LTR to TCA ratio may vary from program to program depending on the degree being offered, where that program is in its lifecycle and whether we enable the same or similar degrees at other universities. Period-to-Period Fluctuations Our revenue, cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue can fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to variations driven by the academic schedules of our clients programs. These programs generally start classes for new and returning students an average of four times per year. Classstarts are not necessarily evenly spaced throughout the year, do not necessarily correspond to the traditional academic calendar and may vary from year to year. As a result, the number of classes our client programs have in session, and therefore the number of students enrolled, will vary from month to month and quarter to quarter, leading to variability in our revenue. Our clients programs often have academic terms that straddle two fiscal quarters. Our clients generally pay us when they have billed tuition and specified fees to their students, which is typically early in the academic term, and once the drop/add period has passed. We recognize the related revenue ratably over the course of the academic term, beginning on the first day of classes through the last. 16 Because we generally receive payments from our clients prior to our ability to recognize the majority of those amounts as revenue, we record deferred revenue at each balance sheet date equal to the excess of the amounts we have billed or received from our clients over the amounts we have recognized as revenue as of that date. For these reasons, our cash flows typically vary considerably from quarter to quarter and our cash position, accounts receivable and deferred revenue typically fluctuate between quarterly balance sheet dates. Our expense levels also fluctuate from quarter to quarter, driven primarily by our program marketing and sales activity. We typically reduce our paid search and other program marketing and sales efforts during late Novemberand Decemberbecause these efforts are less productive during the holiday season. This generally results in lower total program marketing and sales expense during the fourth quarter. In addition, because we begin spending on program marketing and sales, and, to a lesser extent, services and support as much as nine months prior to the start of classes for a new client program, these costs as a percentage of revenue fluctuate, sometimes significantly, depending on the timing of new client programs and anticipated program launch dates. Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations Second Quarter 2017 Highlights Revenue was $65.0 million, an increase of 32.3% from $49.1 million in the second quarter of 2016. Net loss was $(11.8) million, or $(0.25) per share, compared to $(8.3) million or $(0.18) per share, in the second quarter of 2016. Adjusted EBITDA loss was $(1.5) million, compared to $(2.1) million in the second quarter of 2016. Revenue Substantially all of our revenue consists of a contractually specified percentage of the amounts our clients bill to their students for tuition and fees, less credit card fees and other specified charges we have agreed to exclude in certain of our client contracts, which we refer to as net program proceeds. Most of our contracts have 10 to 15 year initial terms. We recognize revenue ratably over the service period, which we define as the first through the last day of classes for each academic term in a client s program. We establish a refund allowance for our share of tuition and fees ultimately uncollected by our clients. In addition to providing access to our SaaS technology, we provide technology-enabled services that support the complete lifecycle of a higher education program, including attracting students, advising prospective students through the admissions application process, providing technical, success coaching and other support, facilitating accessibility to individuals with disabilities and facilitating in-program field placements. We have determined that no individual deliverable has standalone value upon delivery and, therefore, the multiple deliverables within our arrangements do not qualify for treatment as separate units of accounting. Accordingly, we consider all deliverables to be a single unit of accounting and we recognize revenue from the entire arrangement over the term of the service period. We generally receive payments from our clients early in each academic term, prior to completion of the service period. We record these advance payments as deferred revenue until the services are delivered or until our obligations are otherwise met, at which time we recognize the revenue. As of each balance sheet date, deferred revenue is a current liability and represents the excess amounts we have billed or received over the amounts we have recognized as revenue in the consolidated statements of operations as of that date. Revenue for the three months ended June30, 2017 was $65.0 million, an increase of $15.9 million, or 32.3%, from $49.1 million for the same period of 2016. The increase was primarily attributable to a 27.0% increase in period-over-period full course equivalent enrollments in our client programs, from 18,823 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 to 23,903 for the three months ended June 30, 2017. Of the increase in full course equivalent enrollments, 971, or 19.1%, were attributable to client programs launched during the 12 months ended June 30, 2017. Revenue for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $129.8 million, an increase of $33.3 million, or 34.5%, from $96.5 million for the same period of 2016. The increase was primarily attributable to a 30.7% increase in period-over-period full course equivalent enrollments in our client programs, from 36,532 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 to 47,760 for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Of the increase in full course equivalent enrollments, 1,779, or 15.8%, were attributable to client programs launched during the 12 months ended June 30, 2017. Costs and Expenses Costs and expenses consist of servicing and support costs, technology and content development costs, program marketing and sales expenses and general and administrative expenses. To support our anticipated growth, we expect to continue to hire new employees 17 (which will increase both our cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs), increase our program promotion and student acquisition efforts, expand our technology infrastructure and increase our other program support capabilities. As a result, we expect our costs and expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but to decrease as a percentage of revenue over time as we achieve economies of scale through the expansion of our business. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense is a component of compensation cost within each of the four cost and expense categories described above. In early 2014, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved a framework for granting equity awards under our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan. Under this framework, the majority of our equity awards are made on or around April 1 of each year and typically have four-year vesting periods. As such, non-cash stock-based compensation expense is expected to continue to increase year-over-year until four years after the initial early-2014 grants. Servicing and support. Servicing and support expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs related to program management and operations, as well as costs for technical support for our SaaS technology and faculty and student support. It includes costs to facilitate in-program field placements, student immersions and other student enrichment experiences and costs to assist our clients with their state compliance requirements. It also includes software licensing, telecommunications and other costs to provide access to our SaaS technology for our clients and their students. Servicing and support costs for the three months ended June30, 2017 were $13.5million, an increase of $3.2million, or 31.2%, from $10.3million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to higher cash compensation costs of $1.5 million, as we increased our headcount in this area by 9% to serve a growing number of students and faculty in existing and new client programs. Additionally, $1.1 million of the increase related to student immersion courses and on-campus initiatives, in-program field placements, rent expense and travel and related expenses. The remainder of the increase in servicing and support costs related to other costs to support our program marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, servicing and support costs decreased from 20.9% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 to 20.7% for the same period of 2017, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Servicing and support costs for the six months ended June30, 2017 were $24.4million, an increase of $4.6million, or 23.3%, from $19.8million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to higher cash compensation costs of $2.9 million, as we increased our headcount in this area by 10% to serve a growing number of students and faculty in existing and new client programs. Additionally, $0.9 million of the increase related to student immersion courses and on-campus initiatives, in-program field placements, rent expense and travel and related expenses. The remainder of the increase in servicing and support costs related to other costs to support our program marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, servicing and support costs decreased from 20.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 to 18.8% for the same period of 2017, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Technology and content development. Technology and content development expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation and outsourced services costs related to the ongoing improvement and maintenance of our SaaS technology, and the developed content for our client programs. It also includes the costs to support our internal infrastructure, including our cloud-based server usage. Additionally, it includes the associated amortization expense related to capitalized technology and content development costs, as well as hosting and other costs associated with maintaining our SaaS technology in a cloud environment. Technology and content development costs for the three months ended June30, 2017 were $11.1million, an increase of $2.3million, or 26.0%, from $8.8million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to higher amortization expense associated with our capitalized technology and content development costs of $0.8 million, due to the larger number of courses that have been developed for our client programs. Additionally, cash compensation costs (net of amounts capitalized for technology and content development) and travel and related expenses increased $0.8 million, as we increased our headcount in this area by 24% to support the launch of new client programs and the scaling of existing programs. The remainder of the increase related to cloud-based hosting services, non-cash stock-based compensation costs and other technology and content development costs. As a percentage of revenue, technology and content development costs decreased from 18.0% for the three months ended June30, 2016 to 17.1% for the same period of 2017, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. Technology and content development costs for the six months ended June30, 2017 were $20.3million, an increase of $4.2million, or 26.2%, from $16.1million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to higher amortization expense associated with our capitalized technology and content development costs of $1.6 million, due to the larger number of courses that have been developed for our client programs. Additionally, cash compensation costs (net of amounts capitalized for technology and content development) and travel and related expenses increased $1.5 million, as we increased our headcount in this area by 28% to support the launch of new client programs and the scaling of existing programs. The remainder of the increase in technology and content development costs related to cloud-based hosting services and other technology and content development costs. As a percentage of revenue, technology and content development costs decreased from 16.7% for the six months ended June30, 2016 to 15.7% for the same period of 2017, as revenue grew at a higher rate than the increase in expense. 18 Program marketing and sales. Program marketing and sales expense consists primarily of costs related to student acquisition. This includes the cost of online advertising and prospective student generation, as well as cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for our program marketing, search engine optimization, marketing analytics and admissions application counseling personnel. We expense all costs related to program marketing and sales as they are incurred. Program marketing and sales expense for the three months ended June30, 2017 was $37.2million, an increase of $9.7million, or 35.5%, from $27.5million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to higher direct internet marketing costs to acquire students for our clients programs of $5.9 million. Additionally, cash compensation costs and travel and related expenses increased by $2.6 million, as we increased our headcount in this area by 19% to acquire students for, and drive revenue growth in, new client programs. The remainder of the increase in program marketing and sales expense primarily related to depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets, rent expense and other costs to support our programs marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, program marketing and sales expense increased from 55.9% for the three months ended June30, 2016 to 57.4% for the same period of 2017, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. Program marketing and sales expense for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $71.9million, an increase of $20.8million, or 40.6%, from $51.1million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to a $13.6 million increase in direct internet marketing costs to acquire students for our clients programs. Additionally, cash compensation costs and travel and related costs were $5.0 million higher, as we increased our headcount in this area by 22% to acquire students for, and drive revenue growth in, new client programs. The remainder of the increase in program marketing and sales expense primarily related to depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets, rent expense and other costs to support our programs marketing efforts. As a percentage of revenue, program marketing and sales expense increased from 52.9% for the three months ended June30, 2016 to 55.4% for the same period of 2017, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. General and administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of cash and non-cash stock-based compensation costs for employees in our executive, administrative, finance and accounting, legal, communications and human resources functions. Additional expenses include external legal, accounting and other professional fees, telecommunications charges and other corporate costs such as insurance and travel that are not related to another function. General and administrative expense for the three months ended June30, 2017 was $13.9 million, an increase of $3.0 million, or 27.3%, from $10.9 million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to higher cash compensation costs of $2.2 million and an additional $1.0 million in non-cash stock-based compensation costs as we increased our headcount in this area by 16% to support our growing business. These increases were partially offset by decreases in other general and administrative expenses. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expense decreased from 22.3% for the three months ended June30, 2016 to 21.4% for the same period of 2017, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. General and administrative expense for the six months ended June30, 2017 was $27.6 million, an increase of $6.2 million, or 29.0%, from $21.4 million for the same period of 2016. This increase was due primarily to higher cash compensation costs of $3.1 million and non-cash stock-based compensation costs of $1.0 million as we increased our headcount in this area by 18% to support our growing business. Additionally, consulting and other professional services expenses increased by $1.7 million, primarily driven by our acquisition of GetSmarter and the integration of our enterprise resource planning system. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expense decreased from 22.2% for the six months ended June30, 2016 to 21.3% for the same period of 2017, reflecting a higher year-over-year percentage increase in revenue than the increase in expense. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) consists of interest income, interest expense and other expenses. Interest income is derived from interest received on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense consists primarily of the amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our line of credit. Total other income (expense) for the three months ended June30, 2017 was an expense of $1.0million, a change of $1.1million, from other income of $0.1million for the same period of 2016. This change was driven primarily by a $1.0 million foreign currency 19 translation loss recorded on a South African rand denominated restricted cash balance held in connection with the acquisition of GetSmarter. Total other income (expense) for the six months ended June30, 2017 was an expense of $0.8million, a change of $0.9million, from other income $0.1million for the same period of 2016. This change was driven primarily by a $1.0 million foreign currency translation loss recorded on a South African rand denominated restricted cash balance held in connection with the acquisition of GetSmarter. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Income tax expense consists of U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes. To date, we have not been required to pay U.S. federal income taxes because of our current and accumulated net operating losses. We incurred immaterial state and foreign income tax liabilities for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016. Consolidated Statements of Operations as a Percentage of Revenue The following table sets forth selected consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods indicated. Key Business and Financial Performance Metrics We use a number of key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. In addition to adjusted EBITDA, which we discuss below, we discuss revenue and the components of loss from operations in the section above entitled Components of Operating Results and Results of Operations. Additionally, we utilize other key metrics to evaluate the success of our growth strategy, including measures we refer to as platform revenue retention rate and full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs. Platform Revenue Retention Rate We measure our platform revenue retention rate for a particular period by first identifying the group of programs that our clients launched with our solutions before the beginning of the prior year comparative period. We then calculate our platform revenue retention rate by comparing the revenue we recognized for this group of programs in the reporting period to the revenue we recognized for the same group of programs in the prior year comparative period, expressed as a percentage of the revenue we recognized for the group in the prior year comparative period. The following table sets forth our platform revenue retention rate for the periods presented, as well as the number of programs included in the platform revenue retention rate calculation. For all of these periods, our platform revenue retention rate was greater than 100% because we had no programs terminate and full course equivalent enrollments in the aggregate increased year-over-year. There is no direct correlation between the platform revenue retention rate and the number of programs included in the calculation of that rate. However, there may be a correlation between the platform revenue retention rate and the average maturity of the programs included in the calculation of that rate because newer programs tend to have higher percentage growth rates. 20 (1) Reflects the number of programs operating both in the reported period and in the prior year comparative period. Full Course Equivalent Enrollments in Our Clients Programs We measure full course equivalent enrollments in our clients programs by determining, for each of the courses offered during a particular period, the number of students enrolled in that course multiplied by the percentage of the course completed during that period. We use this metric to account for the fact that many courses offered by our clients straddle two or more fiscal quarters. For example, if a course had 25 enrolled students and 40% of the course was completed during a particular period, we would count the course as having 10 full course equivalent enrollments for that period. Any individual student may be enrolled in more than one course during a period. Average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment represents our weighted-average revenue per course across the mix of courses being offered in our client programs during a period. This number is derived by dividing our total revenue for a period by the number of full course equivalent enrollments during that same period. This amount may vary from period to period depending on the academic calendars of our clients, the relative growth rates of programs with varying tuition levels, the launch of new programs with higher or lower than average net tuition costs and annual tuition increases instituted by our clients. As a part of our growth strategy, we are actively targeting new graduate-level clients in academic disciplines for which we have existing programs. Over time, this strategy is likely to reduce our average revenue per full course equivalent. However, we believe this approach will enable us to leverage our program marketing investments across multiple client programs within specific academic disciplines, significantly decreasing student acquisition costs within those disciplines and more than offsetting any decline in average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment. The following table sets forth the full course equivalent enrollments and average revenue per full course equivalent enrollment in our clients programs for the periods presented. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA represents our earnings before net interest income (expense), taxes, depreciation and amortization, foreign currency gains or losses and stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short- and long-term operational plans. In particular, the exclusion of certain expenses in calculating adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business. Accordingly, we believe that adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S.GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to any measure of financial performance calculated and presented in accordance with U.S.GAAP. In addition, adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate adjusted EBITDA in the same manner as we do. We prepare adjusted EBITDA to eliminate the impact of stock-based compensation expense, which we do not consider indicative of our core operating performance. Our use of adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S.GAAP. Some of these limitations are: 21 although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and adjusted EBITDA does not reflect cash capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditure requirements; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the potentially dilutive impact of equity-based compensation; adjusted EBITDA does not reflect interest or tax payments that may represent a reduction in cash available to us; and other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these and other limitations, you should consider adjusted EBITDA alongside other U.S.GAAP-based financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss) and our other U.S. GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods indicated: Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity In June2017, we amended our credit agreement with Comerica for a $25.0 million revolving line of credit pursuant to which, among other things, Comerica consented to our acquisition of GetSmarter and our formation of certain subsidiaries in connection therewith, and we extended the maturity date through July31, 2017. On July31, 2017, we further amended our credit agreement to extend the maturity date through September29, 2017. No amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of June30, 2017 or December 31, 2016. Certain of our operating lease agreements entered into prior to June30, 2017 require security deposits in the form of cash or an unconditional, irrevocable letter of credit. As of June30, 2017, we have entered into standby letters of credit totaling $11.5 million, as security deposits for the applicable leased facilities and totaling $3.5 million in connection with government grants. These letters of credit reduced the aggregate amount we may borrow under our revolving line of credit to $10.0 million. Under this revolving line of credit, we have the option of borrowing funds subject to (i)a base rate, which is equal to 1.5% plus the greater of Comerica Bank s prime rate, the federal funds rate plus 1% or the 30day LIBOR plus 1%, or (ii)LIBOR plus 2.5%. For amounts borrowed under the base rate, we may make interest-only payments quarterly, and may prepay such amounts with no penalty. For amounts borrowed under LIBOR, we may make interest-only payments in periods of one, two and three months and will be subject to a prepayment penalty if we repay such borrowed amounts before the end of the interest period. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by substantially all of our assets. The availability of borrowings under this credit line is subject to our compliance with reporting and financial covenants, including, among other things, that we achieve specified minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement and specified minimum six-month trailing profitability levels for some of our client programs, measured quarterly. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio, which measures our short-term liquidity, of at least 1.10 to 1.00. As of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, our adjusted quick ratios were 2.07 and 5.43, respectively. 22 The covenants under the line of credit also place limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness or to prepay permitted indebtedness, grant liens on or security interests in our assets, carry out mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, declare, make or pay dividends, make capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts, make investments, loans or advances, enter into transactions with our affiliates, amend or modify the terms of our material contracts, or change our fiscal year. If we are not in compliance with the covenants under the line of credit, after any opportunity to cure such non-compliance, or we otherwise experience an event of default under the line of credit, the lenders may require repayment in full of all principal and interest outstanding. If we fail to repay such amounts, the lenders could foreclose on the assets we have pledged as collateral under the line of credit. We are currently in compliance with all such covenants. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Operating Activities For the six months ended June30, 2017, net cash used in operating activities of $8.1million consisted of a net loss of $15.2 million and a $10.8million net cash outflow from changes in working capital, partially offset by $17.9million in non-cash items. The decrease in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of a $15.6 million increase in accounts receivable and a $7.5 million increase in payments to clients, partially offset by a $4.3 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $4.2 million increase in deferred revenue and other changes to working capital of $3.8 million. Non-cash items consisted of non-cash stock-based compensation charges of $9.4 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $7.5 million and a $1.0 million foreign currency translation loss recorded on a South African rand denominated restricted cash balance held in connection with the acquisition of GetSmarter. For the six months ended June30, 2016, net cash provided by operating activities of $11.5million consisted of $12.0million in non-cash items and an $11.2million net cash inflow from changes in working capital, partially offset by a net loss of $11.7 million. Non-cash ite ms consisted of non-cash stock-based compensation charges of $7.5 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $4.5 million. The increase in cash resulting from changes in working capital consisted of a $15.0 million increase in deferred revenue and a $4.8 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities. These increases were partially offset by a $4.3 million increase in accounts receivable, a $3.4 million decrease in accrued compensation and related benefits and other changes in working capital of $0.9 million. Investing Activities For the six months ended June30, 2017, net cash used in investing activities of $26.3 million consisted of $15.5 million of purchases of property and equipment, primarily related to leasehold improvement expenditures for our new office operating leases. Additionally, costs related to internal-use software and content developed to support a greater number of launched programs were $10.8 million. For the six months ended June30, 2016, net cash used in investing activities of $8.6 million consisted primarily of costs related to internal-use software and content developed to support a greater number of launched programs, and equipment. Financing Activities For the six months ended June30, net cash provided by financing activities was $5.1million, consisting of $3.5 million of proceeds from government grants awarded to us in the form of forgivable loans, $2.9 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $1.3 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to net settlement releases of restricted stock units. For the six months ended June30, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $1.6million, consisting of $2.1 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $0.5 million of cash used for the payment of employee withholding taxes related to the release of restricted stock units. 23 Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements During the six months ended June30, 2017, we had new capital asset additions of $31.6 million, which was comprised of $15.6 million of leasehold improvements, $10.5 million in capitalized technology and content development costs and $5.5 million of other property and equipment. The $31.6 million increase consisted of $26.3 million in cash capital expenditures, with the remainder primarily comprised of landlord funded leasehold improvements. For the full year of 2017, we expect new capital asset additions of approximately $64 to $69 million, of which approximately $11 to $13 million will be funded by landlord leasehold improvement allowances. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have non-cancelable operating leases for our office space, and we are also contractually obligated to make fixed payments to certain of our university clients in exchange for contract extensions and various marketing and other rights. We have a $25.0million line of credit from Comerica Bank (with letters of credit reducing the aggregate amount we may borrow to $10.0 million) and no amounts were outstanding as of June30, 2017. See Note4 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 and Legal Proceedings contained in PartII,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for additional information regarding contingencies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note1 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in PartI,Item1 of this Quarterly Report on Form10-Q for a discussion of FASB s recent accounting pronouncements and their effect on us.