Item 1. Financial Statements ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 AD URO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) (In thousands, except share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Nature of Business Aduro Biotech, Inc., or the Company, is a clinical-stage immunotherapy company located in Berkeley, California focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases. The Company was founded in 2000 under the name Oncologic, Inc., later merged with Triton BioSystems, Inc. in 2008, and subsequently changed its name to Aduro Biotech, Inc. in 2009. The Company's technology platforms, which are designed to harness the body's natural immune system, are being investigated in cancer indications and have the potential to expand into autoimmune and infectious diseases. The Company operates in one business segment. The Company's Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted, or LADD, technology platform is based on proprietary attenuated strains of Listeria that have been engineered to express tumor-associated antigens to induce specific and targeted immune responses. The Company's cyclic dinucleotide, or CDN, platform is designed to activate the intracellular Stimulator of Interferon Genes, or STING, receptor, resulting in a potent tumor-specific immune response. The Company's pipeline of product candidates has the potential to be applicable to a variety of cancers and to be combinable with a range of conventional and emerging cancer therapies, including cellular vaccines, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and checkpoint inhibitors, among others. The Company is collaborating with leading global pharmaceutical companies to expand its products and technology platforms. 2. Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates, and Recent Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted, and accordingly the balance sheet as of December 31, 2014 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. The results of operations for the period ended September 30, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2015 or for any other interim period or for any other future year. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2014 included in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenue and expenses in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, convertible preferred stock and related warrants, common stock and related warrants, income taxes and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Initial Public Offering On April 20, 2015, the Company closed its initial public offering, or IPO, and sold 8,050,000 shares of its common stock (inclusive of 1,050,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares) at a price to the public of $17.00 per share. The Company received aggregate net proceeds of $124.2 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses. The Company also sold to Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Inc., or NIBR, in a concurrent private placement 1,470,588 shares of common stock at a price of $17.00 per share for proceeds of $25.0 million (See Note 7). Upon the closing of the IPO, all then-outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock converted by their terms into 51,822,659 shares of common stock. Additionally, the Company amended and restated its certificate of incorporation effective April 14, 2015 to, among other things, change the authorized number of shares of common stock to 300,000,000 shares and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock to 10,000,000 shares. 8 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Reverse Stock Split On April 1, 2015, the Company effected a 0.72-for-1 reverse split of its common stock. Upon the effectiveness of the reverse stock split, (i) every 1 share of outstanding common stock was combined into 0.72 of a share of common stock, (ii) the number of shares of common stock for which each outstanding option or warrant to purchase common stock is exercisable was proportionally decreased on a 0.72-for-1 basis, (iii) the exercise price of each outstanding option or warrant to purchase common stock was proportionately increased on a 0.72-for-1 basis, and (iv) the conversion ratio for each share of preferred stock which was convertible into the Company's common stock was proportionately reduced on a 0.72-for-1 basis. All of the outstanding common stock share numbers, warrants to purchase common stock, common stock share prices, common stock exercise prices and per share amounts have been adjusted, on a retroactive basis, to reflect this 0.72-for-1 reverse stock split for all periods presented. The par value per share, authorized number of shares of common stock, preferred stock and preferred stock warrants were not adjusted as a result of the reverse stock split. Offering Costs Offering costs represent underwriting, legal, accounting and other direct costs related to the Company's IPO. These costs were deferred until completion of the IPO, at which time they were reclassified to additional paid-in capital as a reduction of the proceeds. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Auditing Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods and services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the currently effective guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. In July 2015, the FASB voted to defer the effective date of the ASU by one year to December 15, 2017 for fiscal years, and interim periods within those periods, beginning after that date. Entities are permitted to adopt in accordance with the original effective date of December 15, 2016 if they choose. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. 3. Fair Value Measurements The carrying amounts of certain of the Company's financial instruments, including cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable are approximated at their fair values due to their short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheets, as well as assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis or disclosed at fair value, are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with inputs used to measure their fair values. The accounting guidance for fair value provides a framework for measuring fair value, and requires certain disclosures about how fair value is determined. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received upon the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the reporting date. The accounting guidance also establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value based upon whether such inputs are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect market assumptions made by the reporting entity. The three-level hierarchy for the inputs to valuation techniques is briefly summarized as follows: Level 1 -Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date; Level 2 -Inputs are observable, unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the related assets or liabilities; and Level 3 -Unobservable inputs that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities that are supported by little or no market data. 9 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements The Company's cash equivalents, which include money market funds, are classified as Level I because they are valued using quoted market prices. The Company's marketable securities consist of available-for-sale securities and are generally classified as Level II because their value is based on valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around the inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3. Level 3 liabilities consist of common and preferred stock warrant liabilities. The determination of the fair value of the warrants is discussed in Note 8. Increases or decreases in the fair value of the underlying convertible preferred stock or common stock warrants are accounted for as (loss) gain from remeasurement of fair value of warrants in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. The following table sets forth the Company's financial instruments that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the fair value hierarchy (in thousands): The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in the fair value of the Company's Level 3 financial liabilities (in thousands): 10 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements The following tables summarize the estimated value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized holding gains and losses (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization expense was $162,000 and $67,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively and was $381,000 and $162,000, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities Accrued expenses and other liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 11 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 5. Collaboration Agreements Novartis Agreement In March 2015, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis, pursuant to which the Company is collaborating worldwide with Novartis regarding the development and potential commercialization of product candidates containing an agonist of the molecular target known as STING in the field of oncology, including immuno-oncology and cancer vaccines. Under this agreement, or the Novartis Agreement, the Company granted Novartis a co-exclusive license to develop such products worldwide, an exclusive license to commercialize such products outside the United States and a non-exclusive license to support the Company in commercializing such products in the United States if it requests such support. The collaboration is guided by a joint steering committee with each party having final decision making authority regarding specified areas of development or commercialization. Under the Novartis Agreement, the Company received an upfront payment of $200 million in April 2015. The Company is also eligible to receive up to an additional $250 million in development milestones and up to an additional $250 million in regulatory approval milestones. The Company is responsible for 38% of the joint development costs worldwide and Novartis is responsible for the remaining 62% of the joint development costs worldwide. The Company will also receive 50% of gross profits on sales of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States and 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. For each of these profit share countries, each party will be responsible for its respective commercial sharing percentage of all joint commercialization costs incurred in that country. For all other countries where the Company is not sharing profits, Novartis will be responsible for all commercialization costs and will pay the Company a royalty in the mid-teens on all net sales of product sold by Novartis, its affiliates and sublicensees, with such percentage subject to reduction post patent and data exclusivity expiration and subject to reduction, capped at a specified percentage, for royalties payable to third party licensors. Novartis' royalty obligation will run on a country-by-country basis until the later of expiration of the last valid claim covering the product, expiration of data exclusivity for the product or 12 years after first commercial sale of the product in such country. With respect to the United States, specified European countries and/or Japan, the Company may elect for such region to either reduce by 50% or to eliminate in full the Company's development and commercialization cost sharing obligation. If the Company elects to reduce its cost sharing percentage by 50% in any such region, then its profit share in such region will also be reduced by 50%. If the Company elects to eliminate its development cost sharing obligation, then such region will be removed from the profit share, and instead Novartis will owe the Company royalties on any net sales of product for such region, as described above. The Company recognizes revenue from collaboration, license or research arrangements when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. The Company has determined that the license does not have stand-alone value separable from the co-development services to be performed under the agreement, with the Company participating in the research and development services. As a result, the Company recognizes revenue from the $200 million upfront fee received on a straight-line basis over its estimated performance period of 13.5 years, commencing in July 2015, the date of the Joint Steering Committee's approval of the research and development plan. Changes in the estimated period of performance will be accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate. The Company will recognize substantive milestone payments in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Non-substantive milestone payments will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the remaining performance period. Costs associated with co-development activities performed under the agreement are included in research and development expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Reimbursement of development costs by Novartis is included in collaboration and license revenue. The Company will recognize revenue from the sale of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States, will retain 50% of the gross profits from such sales, and will pay the remaining 50% of the gross profits to Novartis. The Company will receive from Novartis 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. Profit sharing payments made to or received from Novartis are aggregated by product by territory and are reported as expenses or revenues, as applicable. For the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Company recognized revenue from its collaboration with Novartis totaling $3.7 million related to amortization of the upfront fees. The remaining balance of the upfront fees of $196.3 million is included in deferred revenue at September 30, 2015. 12 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Janssen ADU-741 and GVAX Prostate Agreements In May 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement, or Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, and a GVAX Prostate License Agreement, or Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, with Janssen Biotech, Inc., or Janssen, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson Development Corporation, to collaborate on the development of a drug for the treatment of prostate cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-741 for any and all uses. The Company is responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until approval of an investigational new drug application, or IND. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company received an upfront payment of $12.0 million and non-substantive and substantive milestone payments of $6.5 million upon completion of certain development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company may receive future nonrefundable milestone payments up to a total of $1.0 million after completion of various stages of the research and development activities, and the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $345.5 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as launch, commercialization and sales milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from mid-single digits to low teens based on aggregate annual net sales and based on the country of sale. Under the Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing GVAX Prostate for any and all uses. The Company received an upfront payment of $500,000 in May 2014 and is eligible to receive an additional $2.0 million on the achievement of a specified commercial milestone. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the high single digits based on net sales of the product. The development activities being conducted by the Company are based on a combination of the technology licensed under both agreements. Accordingly, the Company has accounted for the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement and Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement as one arrangement and has identified the deliverables within the arrangement as a license to the technology and research and development activities through IND approval. The Company has determined that the licenses and development services under the license and research agreements represent a single unit of accounting. The licenses do not have stand-alone value to Janssen, separable from the development services to be performed under the agreement, as Janssen is unable to use the licenses for their intended purpose without the Company's performance of the research and development services. As a result, the Company recognizes revenue from the upfront payments ratably over the term of its estimated period of performance under the agreement. Changes in the estimated period of performance will be accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate. The upfront fees received totaling $12.5 million are being recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreements through October 2015, the Company's estimated performance period. The Company will recognize non-substantive milestone payments on a straight-line basis through October 2015, the Company's estimated performance period. For the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Company recognized revenue from its Janssen ADU-741 and GVAX Prostate Agreements totaling $2.7 million and $9.2 million, respectively, related to amortization of the upfront fees and development-related milestones. The remaining balance of the payments received of $0.5 million is included in deferred revenue at September 30, 2015, which will be fully amortized as of October 2015. Janssen ADU-214 Agreement In November 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement with Janssen, or Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, to develop a drug for the treatment of lung cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-214 for any and all uses. Janssen has agreed not to administer or cause to be administered ADU-214 in humans in clinical trials for the treatment of pancreatic cancer or mesothelioma. The Company is responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until IND approval. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company received an upfront license fee of $30.0 million and a substantive milestone payment of $0.5 million upon submission of an IND. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company may receive future nonrefundable milestone payments up to a total of $10.5 million after completion of various stages of the research and development activities, and the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $776.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on any net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from high-single digits to low teens based on the aggregate annual net sales of licensed products worldwide and based on the country of sale. 13 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements The upfront license fee of $30.0 million is being recognized on a straight-l ine basis from the effective date of the agreement t hrough October 2015, the Company's estimated performance period which was accelerated based on progress in the development program during the third quarter of 2015 . For the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2015, the Company recognized revenue from Janssen ADU-214 Agreement totaling $11.1 million and $22.9 million, respectively, related to amortization of the upfront fees and development-related milestones. The remaining balance of the payments received of $4.4 million is included in deferred revenue at September 30, 2015 which will be fully amortized as of October 2015. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company completed certain research and development activities associated with a $10.0 million nonrefundable milestone and expects to receive payment prior to the end of 2015. 6. Commitments and Contingencies Leases The Company leases its office and research and development facility in Berkeley, California, under a non-cancelable operating lease. In February 2015, the Company amended its office lease agreement to increase the total square footage to approximately 25,000 square feet and extended the term of the lease to expire on December 31, 2018. The lease also contains an option to extend the lease for an additional two years. Rent expense was $0.2 million and $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively and was $0.4 million and $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. In September 2015, the Company entered into an Office/Laboratory Lease, or the Lease, for approximately 56,452 square feet of office and laboratory space at a new facility located in Berkeley, California, or the Facility. The term of the Lease commences when the landlord delivers possession of the Facility to the Company. Upon commencement, the Lease has an initial term of twelve years. The Company has the option to extend the Lease beyond the Initial Term for up to two renewal terms of five years each, provided that the rental rate would be subject to market adjustment at the beginning of each renewal term. The Company also has a one-time option that may be exercised any time prior to July 1, 2016 to lease additional space within the Facility of approximately 25,600 square feet commencing January 1, 2017 and approximately 28,801 square feet commencing January 1, 2018. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into agreements that may include indemnification provisions. Pursuant to such agreements, the Company may indemnify, hold harmless and defend an indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party. Some of the provisions will limit losses to those arising from third party actions. In some cases, the indemnification will continue after the termination of the agreement. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these provisions is not determinable. The Company has never incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification provisions. The Company has also entered into indemnification agreements with its directors, officers and key employees that may require the Company to indemnify such individuals against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers or key employees to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. The Company currently has directors' and officers' insurance. Legal During the normal course of business, the Company may be a party to legal claims that may not be covered by insurance. Management does not believe that any such claims would have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. 14 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Other Commitments The Company has various manufacturing, clinical, research and other contracts with vendors in the conduct of the normal course of its business. All contracts are terminable, with varying provisions regarding termination. If a contract with a specific vendor were to be terminated, the Company would only be obligated for the products or services that the Company had received at the time the termination became effective as well as non-cancelable and non-refundable payment obligations incurred by the vendor for products or services before the termination became effective. In the case of terminating a clinical trial agreement at a particular site, the Company would also be obligated to provide continued support for appropriate medical procedures at that site until completion or termination. 7. Convertible Preferred Stock Novartis Stock Purchase Concurrent with the March 2015 entry into the Novartis Agreement (See Note 5), the Company and NIBR, entered into a stock purchase agreement to purchase 2,361,029 shares of the Company's Series E Convertible Preferred Stock (or 1,699,940 shares of common stock on an as-converted basis) for $25.0 million. Upon the closing of the IPO, these preferred shares converted into common stock. Under the stock purchase agreement, NIBR purchased an additional $25.0 million of the Company's common stock concurrent with the completion of the IPO at the initial price per share offered to the public. 8. Warrant Liabilities In April 2011, the Company issued warrants to purchase 24,235 shares of Series A-1 convertible preferred stock, or Series A-1 warrants, and 83,771 warrants to purchase shares of Series B convertible preferred stock, or Series B warrants. The Series A-1 warrants and Series B warrants were immediately exercisable and expire, if not exercised, in April 2021 and April 2016, respectively. As the shares into which the warrants were exercisable were contingently redeemable, the Company recognized a liability for the fair value of the warrants on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. At the date of the IPO, the Series A-1 warrants and Series B warrants became exercisable for common stock and were no longer contingently redeemable. At the IPO, the ending fair value of these warrants of $1.2 million was reclassified to additional paid-in capital, and the change in fair value of $1.1 million was recognized as loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. In April, June, and October 2011, the Company issued warrants to purchase 615,658 shares of common stock. The common stock warrants were exercisable beginning in April 2015 and would have terminated in whole or part, if the Company had obtained certain levels of government grant funds by April 15, 2015. The warrants expire, if not exercised, in April 2021. As the warrants were subject to performance conditions which may result in the issuance of a variable number of shares, the Company recognized a liability for the fair value of the common stock warrants on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. At April 15, 2015, the Company did not obtain the specified levels of government grant funds and the performance conditions expired and the number of common shares issuable was fixed. On April 15, 2015, the ending fair value of the common stock warrants of $25.9 million was reclassified to additional paid-in capital, and the change in fair value of $25.0 million was recognized as loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The key assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model for the valuation of the convertible preferred stock warrants were as follows: 15 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements The key assumptions used in the Black-S c holes option-pricing model for the valuation of the common stock warrants were as follows: 9. Stock-Based Compensation Plans 2015 Stock Option Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2015 Plan, which became effective upon the IPO and provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and other forms of stock awards to its employees, directors and consultants. The 2015 Plan is administered by the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the Board of Directors, which determines the types of awards to be granted, including the number of shares subject to the awards, the exercise price and the vesting schedule. The exercise price of incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options will be no less than 100% of the fair value per share of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. If an individual owns capital stock representing more than 10% of the voting shares, the price of each share will be at least 110% of the fair value on the date of grant. Options expire after 10 years (five years for stockholders owning greater than 10% of the voting stock). The number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the 2015 Plan is 6,134,292 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan to the lower of (i) 4% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the Board of Directors. 2009 Stock Incentive Plan The Company's 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2009 Plan, terminated on the date the 2015 Plan was adopted. Options granted or shares issued under the 2009 Plan that were outstanding on the date the 2015 Plan became effective will remain subject to the terms of its plan. Prior to the 2009 Plan termination, the number of options available for grant was increased by 360,000 shares. At September 30, 2015, 8,760,285 options under the 2009 Plan remained outstanding. Stock option activity under the Company's 2015 Plan and 2009 Plan was as follows: 16 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or 2015 ESPP, which became effective upon the IPO. The 2015 ESPP is intended to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Code, and is administered by the Company's board of directors and the Compensation Committee of the board of directors. Stock-based Compensation Expense Total stock-based compensation expense recognized was as follows (in thousands): In determining the fair value of the stock-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of stock-based awards granted to employees during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was estimated at the date of grant using the following assumptions: 10. Income Taxes The Company did not record a provision or benefit for income taxes during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. The Company continues to maintain a full valuation allowance for its net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740 , Accounting for Income Taxes . As of September 30, 2015 and 2014, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $1.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2015 and 2014, no amount of the unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce the Company's annual effective tax rate because the benefits are in the form of deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been recorded. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. As of September 30, 2015 and 2014, the Company accrued no interest and penalties in the statement of financial position. Total interest and penalties included in the statements of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 are each zero. The Company does not expect the amount of existing unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly within the next 12 months. The Company is subject to taxation for U.S. federal and the state of California purposes only. The Company's federal and California tax returns are open by statute for tax years 2011 and 2010 forward, respectively, and could be subject to examination by the tax authorities . 17 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 11. Net Income ( Loss ) per Common Share Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share gives effect to dilutive stock options and warrants. The Company uses the treasury-stock method to compute diluted earnings per share with respect to its stock options and warrants. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share (in thousands except share and per share amounts): The potential dilutive securities excluded from diluted net income (loss) per common share were as follows (in thousands): 12. Subsequent Event On October 30, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition, or the Acquisition, of all of the issued and outstanding shares of BioNovion Holding B.V., a private limited liability company organized under the laws of the Netherlands, or BioNovion, pursuant to the Share Sale Agreement, or the Purchase Agreement, dated September 24, 2015, by and among the Company, Aduro Netherlands Co&ouml;peratief U.A., a cooperative organized under the laws of the Netherlands and a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, or Aduro Netherlands, BioNovion, and the shareholders of BioNovion, or the Sellers. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Aduro Netherlands acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of BioNovion from the Sellers for an aggregate purchase price of (i) EUR 14,500,000 in cash and (ii) 697,306 shares of common stock of the Company, or the Common Stock, subject to a post-closing adjustment based on working capital, net cash and borrowings of BioNovion and its subsidiary as of the closing date under the Purchase Agreement. The Sellers have the opportunity to receive additional contingent payments from Aduro as follows : (i) EUR 6,000,000 upon acceptance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration of an investigational new drug application for a specified BioNovion antibody product candidate ; and (ii) EUR 20,000,000 upon receipt by BioNovion of a $40,000,000 milestone payment by the licensee under a pre-existing antibody discovery and license agreement, triggered by marketing authorization for the first indication in the United States for a specified BioNovion antibody product candidate. The required disclosures have not been provided as the initial accounting for the business combination is in progress as of the date of this Form 10-Q filing. 18 Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited financial statements and related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2014, included in our prospectus dated April 14, 2015, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Prospectus. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this report titled "Risk factors." Forward-Looking Statements This discussion contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as "believe," "will," "may," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "should," "plan," "expect," "predict," "could," "potentially" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition, or state other "forward-looking" information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report in Part II, Item 1A - "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. We caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Overview We are a clinical-stage immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases. Our technology platforms, which are designed to harness the body's natural immune system, are being investigated in cancer indications and have the potential to expand into autoimmune and infectious diseases. Immuno-oncology encompasses a class of therapies that leverage the patient's immune system to slow the growth and spread of, or eliminate, tumor cells. We believe a critical distinguishing factor in our approach to immuno-oncology is that our novel therapies initiate powerful innate immune responses and drive targeted, durable adaptive immune responses. The immunotherapy field is rapidly advancing with new immuno-oncology combinations that focus on strengthening therapeutic efficacy in a wide range of cancers. We intend to pursue a broad strategy of combining our technology platforms with conventional and novel immuno-oncology therapies, based on their mechanisms of action, safety profiles and versatility. Our pipeline of immuno-oncology product candidates is derived from two proprietary technology platforms: Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted, or LADD, Listeria monocytogenes and cyclic dinucleotides, or CDNs. Our lead LADD product candidate, CRS-207, is currently being developed in metastatic pancreatic cancer and unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. Our lead immuno-oncology regimen of CRS-207 and GVAX Pancreas was granted Breakthrough Therapy designation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and we have obtained orphan drug designations from the FDA for CRS-207 and GVAX Pancreas for the treatment of pancreatic cancer and for CRS-207 for the treatment of mesothelioma. We are developing a pipeline of proprietary product candidates, including two product candidates in collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc., or Janssen, targeting prostate and lung cancers. In addition, we established a worldwide collaboration with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis, for CDN product candidates in oncology. Financial Operations Overview Revenue We have not generated any revenue from product sales. Our revenue to date has been primarily derived from two separate research and license agreements we entered into with Janssen, which became effective in May 2014 and in November 2014, our worldwide collaboration agreement with Novartis established in March 2015, and research and development grants from the U.S. government. We recognize revenue from upfront payments under our collaboration agreements ratably over the term of our estimated period of performance under the agreement. In addition to receiving upfront payments, we may also be entitled to milestone and other contingent payments upon achieving predefined objectives. Revenue from milestones, if they are nonrefundable and deemed 19 substantive, are recognized upon successful accomplishment of the milestones. To the extent that non-substantive milestones are achieved and we have remaining performance obligations, milestones are deferred and recognized as revenue over the estimated rem aining period of performance . We recognize revenue related to research and development grants when the related research expenses are incurred and our specific performance obligations under the terms of the respective contracts are satisfied . We expect that any revenue we generate from our collaboration with Novartis, research and license agreements with Janssen, government research and development grants, and any future collaboration partners will fluctuate from year to year as a result of the timing and amount of milestones and other payments. Research and Development Expenses The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development and manufacturing of our product candidates. Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our product candidates, as well as the development of product candidates pursuant to our collaboration with Novartis and research and license agreement with Janssen. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Clinical trial costs, contract manufacturing and other development costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we advance our product candidates into and through clinical trials and pursue regulatory approval of our product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain regulatory approval is costly and time-consuming. The actual probability of success for our product candidates and technology platforms may be affected by a variety of factors including: the quality of our product candidates, early clinical data, investment in our clinical program, competition, manufacturing capability and commercial viability. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our product candidates. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel costs, expenses for outside professional services and other allocated expenses. Personnel costs consist of salaries, bonuses and benefits. Outside professional services consist of legal, accounting and audit services and other consulting fees. Allocated expenses consist of rent expense related to our office and research and development facility. We expect to incur additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses related to compliance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and those of any national securities exchange on which our securities are traded, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities and other administrative and professional services. Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants Loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants consists of losses from the remeasurement of the fair value of our liabilities related to our convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income (expense), net consists of interest income from our marketable securities. Interest expense consists of amortization of debt discount associated with convertible promissory note warrants, issuance of the equity component of a convertible promissory note and beneficial conversion features associated with certain convertible promissory notes, as well as stated interest costs associated with our borrowings. Other Income, Net Other income, net consists of gains and losses from the change in the fair value of the convertible promissory note warrants. 20 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $18.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $16.3 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. The increase is primarily due to $13.8 million in revenue recognized from the upfront fees and development-related milestones achieved under the Janssen agreements and $3.7 million in revenue recognized from the upfront fee received from Novartis. During the third quarter of 2015, our estimated period of performance of research and development services under the Janssen agreement was accelerated to October 2015, and as a result, $4.2 million of revenue was recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2015 that would have been recognized in future periods. The Novartis upfront fee is being recognized on a straight-line basis over our estimated performance period of 13.5 years, commencing in July 2015. Grant revenue was $0.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $0.4 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to an increase in grant-related research and development. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014: Research and development expenses were $11.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $6.0 million, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. The increase was primarily attributed to a $2.9 million increase in contract manufacturing costs of our clinical product candidates; a $1.2 million increase in clinical development expenses mainly associated with ongoing trials for our lead indication in pancreatic cancer; a $1.0 million of incremental compensation and related personnel expenses associated with additional research and development headcount; a $0.4 million increase in other research and development costs primarily for our CDN program; and a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation. 21 General and Administrative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014: General and administrative expenses were $6.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $4.9 million, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. The increase was primarily due to a $1.9 million increase in consulting and other professional services fees; a $1.3 million increase in stock-based compensation; a $1.2 million increase in compensation and related personnel expenses primarily related to additional general and administrative headcount; and a $0.3 million increase in other general and administrative costs. Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants Loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants was zero for the three months ended September 30, 2015, a decrease of $0.2 million, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. As of April 2015, all of the convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants were no longer subject to remeasurement due to the IPO or expiration of the performance condition. Therefore, no such gain or loss from remeasurement of the warrants was recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2015. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income from our marketable securities was $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. During the three months ended September 30, 2014, we did not have any marketable securities. Interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2014 was primarily composed of interest costs associated with our borrowings. We did not have any borrowings during the three months ended September 30, 2015. Comparison of the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 22 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $37.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $34.3 million compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The increase is primarily due to $32.0 million in revenue recognized from the upfront fees and development-related milestones achieved under the Janssen agreements and $3.7 million in revenue recognized from the upfront fee received from Novartis. During the third quarter of 2015, our estimated period of performance of research and development services under the Janssen agreement was accelerated to October 2015, and as a result, $4.2 million of revenue was recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 that would have been recognized in future periods. The Novartis upfront fee is being recognized on a straight-line basis over our estimated performance period of 13.5 years, commencing in July 2015. Grant revenue was $1.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $0.8 million compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014, primarily due to an increase in grant-related research and development. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014: Research and development expenses were $36.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $20.0 million compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The increase was primarily attributed to a $4.6 million increase in contract manufacturing costs of our clinical product candidates; $4.5 million of incremental compensation and related personnel expenses associated with additional research and development headcount; a $4.2 million increase in clinical development expenses mainly associated with ongoing trials for our lead indication in pancreatic cancer; a $3.0 million increase in licensing fees; a $2.5 million increase in other research and development costs primarily for our CDN program; and a $1.1 million increase in stock-based compensation. General and Administrative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014: 23 General and administrative expenses were $1 9.0 million for the nine months ended September 30 , 2015, an increase of $13.5 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30 , 2014. The increase was primarily due to $4. 4 million of incremental legal, consulting and other professional services fees related to our collaboration agreement, general corporate matters and accounting support ; a $3.9 million increase in compensation and related personnel expenses primarily related to additional general and administrative headcount ; a $3.7 million increase in stock-based compensation; a $1.0 million increase in other general and administrative costs ; and a $0. 5 million increase in facility costs . Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants Loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants was $26.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, an increase of $25.8 million, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The increase in expense was primarily due to the higher stock prices used in the remeasurement of the fair value of liability classified preferred and common stock warrants. As of April 2015, all of the convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants were no longer subject to remeasurement due to the IPO or expiration of the performance condition. Gain on Extinguishment of Convertible Promissory Notes During 2013 and 2014, we issued convertible promissory notes to related parties, which were subsequently converted in May 2014 to Series C convertible preferred stock. The conversion of convertible promissory notes was determined to be an extinguishment of debt and a portion of the reacquisition price was allocated to the reacquisition of the embedded beneficial conversion feature. We recorded a gain on extinguishment of $3.6 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2014, as the amount allocated to reacquire the notes was less than the carrying value of the notes. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income from our marketable securities was $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, we did not have any marketable securities. Interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was due to the amortization of debt discount associated with convertible promissory note warrants, debt discount associated with the equity component of a convertible promissory note and beneficial conversion features attributable to certain promissory notes, as well as stated interest costs associated with our borrowings. We did not have any borrowings during the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, our operations have been financed primarily by net proceeds from the initial public offering, sale of convertible preferred stock, proceeds from our collaboration and license agreements and revenue from government grants. At September 30, 2015, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $448.4 million. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalent and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have based our cash sufficiency estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, we could consume our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect or in excess of amounts that we currently expect, which could adversely affect our development activities. In March 2015, we established a worldwide collaboration with Novartis for the development and commercialization of products containing an agonist of the molecular target known as STING in the field of oncology, including immuno-oncology and cancer vaccines. Under the Novartis Agreement, we received an upfront payment of $200 million in April 2015. We are also eligible to receive up to an additional $250 million in development milestones and up to an additional $250 million in regulatory approval milestones. Concurrent with the entry into the Novartis Agreement, we and Novartis Institutes of BioMedical Research, Inc., or NIBR, entered into a stock purchase agreement to purchase 2,361,029 shares of our Series E Preferred Stock (which converted into 1,699,940 shares of common stock at the completion of the IPO), for $25.0 million. On April 20, 2015, we closed our initial public offering, or IPO, and sold 8,050,000 shares of our common stock (inclusive of 1,050,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares) at a price to the public of $17.00 per share. We received aggregate net proceeds of $124.2 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses. We also sold to NIBR in a concurrent private placement 1,470,588 shares of common stock at a price of $17.00 per share for proceeds of $25.0 million (See Note 7). Upon the closing of the IPO, all then-outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock converted by their terms into 51,822,659 shares of common stock. Additionally, we amended and restated our certificate of incorporation effective April 14, 2015 to, among other things, change the authorized number of shares of common stock to 300,000,000 shares and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock to 10,000,000 shares. 24 Our primary uses of capital are, and we expect will continue to be, compensation and related expenses, third-party clinical, manufacturing, and o ther research and development services, laboratory and related supplies, and legal and other professional services. Cash used to fund operating expenses is impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses, as reflected in the change in our outstanding accoun ts payable and accrued expenses. We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates , s pecifically in connection with our Phase 2b ECLIPSE clinical trial in met astatic pancreatic cancer , manufacturing of our product candidates, and advancement of CRS-207 in combination with standard-of-care chemotherapy into Phase 3 clinical development for mesothelioma . We plan to continue to fund our operations and capital funding needs through equity and/or debt financing. We may also consider entering into additional collaboration arrangements or selectively partnering for clinical development and commercialization. In addition, we expect to continue to opportunistically seek access to the equity capital markets to support our development efforts and operations. The sale of additional equity would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or partnering arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some of our rights to our technologies or rights to market and sell our products in certain geographies, grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, or issue equity that may be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. If we are not able to secure adequate additional funding, we may be forced to make reductions in spending, extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible and/or suspend or curtail planned programs. Any of these actions could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $157.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to cash used of $5.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The increase was primarily due to a $200 million upfront payment received from Novartis, partially offset by the increase in net loss of $26.2 million primarily due to increased research and development and general and administrative expenses. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $269.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of purchases of marketable securities and laboratory and office equipment, furniture and leasehold improvements. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $173.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to $37.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The increase was primarily related to $124.2 million in net proceeds from the IPO, $25.0 million in gross proceeds from the private placement and $25.0 million in net proceeds from sale of Series E convertible preferred stock. Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 included net proceeds from the sale of Series C convertible preferred stock amounting to $36.9 million. 25 Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments During the nine months ended September 30, 2015, there were no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments described under the section titled &quot;Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations&quot; in the Prospectus. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules.Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Organization and Nature of Business Aduro Biotech, Inc., or the Company, is a clinical-stage immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases. The Company's first-in-class technology platforms, which are designed to harness the body's natural immune system, are being investigated in cancer indications and have the potential to expand into autoimmune and infectious diseases. The Company operates in one business segment. The Company has developed three technology platforms, LADD, STING Pathway Activator and B-select monoclonal antibodies. The Company's Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted, or LADD, Listeria monocytogenes technology platform is engineered to express tumor-associated antigens to induce specific and targeted immune responses. Based on compelling clinical data in advanced cancers, this platform is being developed as a treatment for multiple indications, including pancreatic, ovarian, lung and prostate cancers, mesothelioma and glioblastoma. The Company's STING Pathway Activator platform is designed to activate the intracellular Stimulator of Interferon Genes, or STING, receptor, resulting in a potent tumor-specific immune response. The Company's B-select monoclonal antibody platform includes a number of immune modulating assets in research and preclinical development and is led by the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary based in the Netherlands, Aduro Biotech Holdings, Europe B.V. (fka BioNovion Holding B.V.), or Aduro Biotech Europe. The Company is also collaborating with leading global pharmaceutical companies to expand its products and technology platforms. Initial Public Offering and Concurrent Private Placement On April 20, 2015, the Company closed its initial public offering, or IPO, and sold 8,050,000 shares of its common stock (inclusive of 1,050,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares) at a price to the public of $17.00 per share. The Company received aggregate net proceeds of $124.2 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses. The Company also sold to Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Inc., or NIBR, in a concurrent private placement 1,470,588 shares of common stock at a price of $17.00 per share for proceeds of $25.0 million (See Note 8). Upon the closing of the IPO, all then-outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock converted by their terms into 51,822,659 shares of common stock. Additionally, the Company amended and restated its certificate of incorporation effective April 20, 2015 to, among other things, change the authorized number of shares of common stock to 300,000,000 shares and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock to 10,000,000 shares. 2. Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates and Recent Accounting Pronouncements Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and following the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted, and accordingly the balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2016 or for any other interim period or for any other future year. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2015 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. A reclassification was made on the prior period condensed consolidated statement of operations in order to conform with current period presentation. Specifically, expense of $9.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 has been reclassified from other income (expense), net to loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants. 7 Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenue and expenses in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, contingent consideration, convertible preferred stock and related warrants, common stock and related warrants, income taxes and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Auditing Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods and services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the currently effective guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. In July 2015, the FASB voted to defer the effective date of the ASU by one year to December 15, 2017 for fiscal years, and interim periods within those periods, beginning after that date. Entities are permitted to adopt in accordance with the original effective date of December 15, 2016 if they choose. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. 3. Fair Value Measurements The carrying amounts of certain of the Company's financial instruments, including cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their fair values due to their short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheets, as well as assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis or disclosed at fair value, are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with inputs used to measure their fair values. The accounting guidance for fair value provides a framework for measuring fair value, and requires certain disclosures about how fair value is determined. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received upon the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the reporting date. The accounting guidance also establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value based upon whether such inputs are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect market assumptions made by the reporting entity. The three-level hierarchy for the inputs to valuation techniques is briefly summarized as follows: Level 1 -Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date; Level 2 -Inputs are observable, unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the related assets or liabilities; and Level 3 -Unobservable inputs that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities that are supported by little or no market data. 8 The Company's cash equivalents, which include money market funds, are classified as Level 1 because they are valued using quoted market prices. The Company's marketable securities consist of available-for-sa le securities and are generally classified as Level 2 because their value is based on valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around the inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3. Level 3 liabilities consist of the contingent consideration liability. The following table sets forth the Company's financial instruments that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the fair value hierarchy (in thousands): The acquisition-date fair value of the contingent consideration liability represents the future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified development milestones for a product candidate. The fair value of the contingent consideration is based on the Company's probability-weighted discounted cash flow assessment that considers probability and timing of future payments. The fair value measurement is based on significant Level 3 inputs such as anticipated timelines and probability of achieving development milestones. Changes in the fair value of the liability for contingent consideration, except for the impact of foreign currency, will be recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations until settlement. The Company did not have any financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. There were no transfers between the fair value measurement category levels during any of the periods presented. The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in the fair value of the Company's Level 3 financial liabilities (in thousands): 9 The following tables summarize the estimated value of the Company's cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized holding gains and losses (in thousands): The amortized cost and estimated fair value of the Company's available-for-sale marketable securities by contractual maturity are summarized below as of March 31, 2016 (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): 10 Depreciation and amortization expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was $357,000 and $93,000, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities Accrued expenses and other liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill The gross carrying amount of goodwill was as follows (in thousands): Intangible assets The gross carrying amounts and net book value of our intangible assets were as follows (in thousands): Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. The license agreement is being amortized over a period of 20 years and the amortization expense is recorded in operating expenses. The increase in the gross carrying amount of intangible assets as of March 31, 2016 compared to December 31, 2015 reflected a positive impact of foreign currency exchange which was primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. dollar. 11 Amortization expense was $137,000 and zero for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Based on finite-lived intangible assets recorded as of March 31, 2016, the est imated future amortization expense is as follows (in thousands): 6. Collaboration Agreements Pharma License Agreement In connection with the acquisition of Aduro Biotech Europe in October 2015, the Company became party to an agreement with a third-party pharmaceutical company, or Pharma. The agreement sets forth the parties' respective obligations for development, commercialization, regulatory and manufacturing and supply activities for antibody product candidates. In exchange for the licenses and research and development services under the agreement, Pharma paid Aduro Biotech Europe an upfront non-refundable cash payment of $15.0 million in April 2014. No amounts of this upfront payment were recognized in post-acquisition revenue. The Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments, including up to $156.0 million in potential development milestone payments, and up to $135.0 million in commercial and net sales milestones for a product candidate. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the mid-single digits to low teens based on net sales of the product. The Company identified the following performance deliverables under the agreement: 1) the license, 2) the obligation to provide research activities and 3) the obligation to participate on a Joint Research Committee. The Company considered the provisions of the multiple-element arrangement guidance in determining how to recognize the total consideration of the agreement. The Company determined that none of the deliverables have standalone value; all of these obligations will be delivered throughout the estimated period of performance and therefore are accounted for as a single unit of accounting. The Company determined that all of the future contingent payments meet the definition of a milestone. Accordingly, revenue for the achievement of these milestones will be recognized in the period when the milestone is achieved and collectability is reasonably assured. No amounts had been recognized as revenue for any of these milestones for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Novartis Agreement In March 2015, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis, pursuant to which the Company is collaborating worldwide with Novartis regarding the development and potential commercialization of product candidates containing an agonist of the molecular target known as STING in the field of oncology, including immuno-oncology and cancer vaccines. Under this agreement, or the Novartis Agreement, the Company granted Novartis a co-exclusive license to develop such products worldwide, an exclusive license to commercialize such products outside the United States and a non-exclusive license to support the Company in commercializing such products in the United States if it requests such support. The collaboration is guided by a joint steering committee with each party having final decision making authority regarding specified areas of development or commercialization. Under the Novartis Agreement, the Company received an upfront payment of $200.0 million in April 2015. The Company is also eligible to receive up to an additional $250.0 million in development milestones and up to an additional $250.0 million in regulatory approval milestones. The Company is responsible for 38% of the joint development costs worldwide and Novartis is responsible for the remaining 62% of the joint development costs worldwide. The Company will also receive 50% of gross profits on sales of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States and 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. For each of these profit share countries, each party will be responsible for its respective commercial sharing percentage of all joint commercialization costs incurred in that country. 12 For a ll other countries where the Company is not sharing profits, Novartis will be responsible for all commercialization costs and will pay the Company a royalty in the mid-teens on all net sales of product sold by Novartis, its affiliates and sublicensees, wit h such percentage subject to reduction post patent and data exclusivity expiration and subject to reduction, capped at a specified percentage, for royalties payable to third party licensors. Novartis' royalty obligation will run on a country-by-country bas is until the later of expiration of the last valid claim covering the product, expiration of data exclusivity for the product or 12 years after first commercial sale of the product in such country. With respect to the United States, specified European countries and/or Japan, the Company may elect for such region to either reduce by 50% or to eliminate in full the Company's development and commercialization cost sharing obligation. If the Company elects to reduce its cost sharing percentage by 50% in any such region, then its profit share in such region will also be reduced by 50%. If the Company elects to eliminate its development cost sharing obligation, then such region will be removed from the profit share, and instead Novartis will owe the Company royalties on any net sales of product for such region, as described above. The Company recognizes revenue from collaboration, license or research arrangements when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. The Company has determined that the license does not have stand-alone value separable from the co-development services to be performed under the agreement, with the Company participating in the research and development services. As a result, the Company recognizes revenue from the $200.0 million upfront fee received on a straight-line basis over its estimated performance period of 13.5 years, commencing in July 2015, the date of the Joint Steering Committee's approval of the research and development plan. Changes in the estimated period of performance will be accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate. The Company will recognize substantive milestone payments in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Non-substantive milestone payments will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the remaining performance period. Costs associated with co-development activities performed under the agreement are included in research and development expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. Reimbursement of research and development costs by Novartis is included in collaboration and license revenue. The Company will recognize revenue from the sale of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States, will retain 50% of the gross profits from such sales, and will pay the remaining 50% of the gross profits to Novartis. The Company will receive from Novartis 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. Profit sharing payments made to or received from Novartis are aggregated by product by territory and are reported as expenses or revenues, as applicable. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company recognized revenue from its collaboration with Novartis totaling $3.7 million related to amortization of the upfront fee. The remaining balance of the upfront fees of $188.9 million is included in deferred revenue at March 31, 2016. Janssen ADU-214 Agreement In November 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement with Janssen, or Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, to develop a drug for the treatment of lung cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-214 for any and all uses. Janssen has agreed not to administer or cause to be administered ADU-214 in humans in clinical trials for the treatment of pancreatic cancer or mesothelioma. The Company was responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until investigational new drug application, or IND, approval which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2015. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement through March 31, 2016, the Company received an upfront license fee of $30.0 million and substantive and non-substantive milestone payments of $11.0 million upon completion of various development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $766.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on any net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from high-single digits to low teens based on the aggregate annual net sales of licensed products worldwide and based on the country of sale. The upfront license fee of $30.0 million was recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreement through October 2015. Janssen ADU-741 and GVAX Prostate Agreements In May 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement, or Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, and a GVAX Prostate License Agreement, or Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, with Janssen Biotech, Inc., or Janssen, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson Development Corporation, to collaborate on the development of a drug for the treatment of prostate cancer. Under 13 the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-741 for any and all uses. The Company is responsible for certain resea rch and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until IND approval which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2015. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement through March 31, 2016, the Company received an upfront payment of $12.0 million and substantive and non-substantive milestone payments of $10.0 million upon completion of certain development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $343.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from mid-single digits to low teens based on aggregate annual net sales and based on the country of sale. Under the Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing GVAX Prostate for any and all uses. The Company received an upfront payment of $500,000 in May 2014 and is eligible to receive an additional $2.0 million on the achievement of a specified commercial milestone. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the high single digits based on net sales of the product. The upfront fees received totaling $12.5 million were recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreements through October 2015. The Company recognized non-substantive milestone payments on a straight-line basis through October 2015. 7. Commitments and Contingencies Leases The Company leases its office and research and development facility in Berkeley, California, under a non-cancelable operating lease. In February 2015, the Company amended its office lease agreement to increase the total square footage to approximately 25,000 square feet and extended the term of the lease to expire on December 31, 2018. The lease also contains an option to extend the lease for an additional two years. In September 2015, the Company entered into an Office/Laboratory Lease for approximately 56,000 square feet of office and laboratory space at a new facility located in Berkeley, California. The term of the lease commenced when the landlord delivered possession of the facility to the Company in March 2016. The Company has not yet occupied this space. The lease has an initial term of twelve years. The Company has the option to extend the lease beyond the initial term for up to two renewal terms of five years each, provided that the rental rate would be subject to market adjustment at the beginning of each renewal term. The Company also has a one-time option that may be exercised any time prior to July 1, 2016 to lease additional space within the facility of approximately 26,000 square feet commencing on January 1, 2017 and approximately 29,000 square feet commencing on January 1, 2018. The Company also has office and laboratory space in Oss, the Netherlands, for employees of Aduro Biotech Europe. The term of the lease is through December 2017, with a one-year renewal option. Rent expense was $256,000 and $110,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Under the terms of the lease agreements, the Company is also responsible for certain insurance, property tax and maintenance expenses. Indemnification In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into agreements that may include indemnification provisions. Pursuant to such agreements, the Company may indemnify, hold harmless and defend an indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party. Some of the provisions will limit losses to those arising from third party actions. In some cases, the indemnification will continue after the termination of the agreement. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these provisions is not determinable. The Company has never incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification provisions. The Company has also entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and officers that may require the Company to indemnify its directors and officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. The Company currently has directors' and officers' insurance. 14 Legal During the normal course of business, the Company may be a party to legal claims that may not be covered by insurance. Management does not believe that there are currently any such claims that would have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. Other Commitments The Company has various manufacturing, clinical, research and other contracts with vendors in the conduct of the normal course of its business. All contracts are terminable, with varying provisions regarding termination. If a contract with a specific vendor were to be terminated, the Company would only be obligated for the products or services that the Company had received at the time the termination became effective as well as non-cancelable and non-refundable payment obligations incurred by the vendor for products or services before the termination became effective. In the case of terminating a clinical trial agreement at a particular site, the Company would also be obligated to provide continued support for appropriate medical procedures at that site until completion or termination. 8. Equity Incentive Plans 2015 Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2015 Plan, which became effective upon the IPO and provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and other forms of stock awards to its employees, directors and consultants. The Company's 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2009 Plan, terminated on the date the 2015 Plan was adopted. Options granted or shares issued under the 2009 Plan that were outstanding on the date the 2015 Plan became effective will remain subject to the terms of the 2009 Plan. The 2015 Plan is administered by the board of directors or a committee appointed by the board of directors, which determines the types of awards to be granted, including the number of shares subject to the awards, the exercise price and the vesting schedule. The exercise price of incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options will be no less than 100% of the fair value per share of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. If an individual owns capital stock representing more than 10% of the voting shares, the price of each share will be at least 110% of the fair value on the date of grant. Options expire after 10 years (five years for stockholders owning greater than 10% of the voting stock). The number of shares of common stock initially reserved for issuance under the 2015 Plan was 6,134,292 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan to the lower of (i) 4% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the board of directors. On January 1, 2016 the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan increased by 2,543,513. The Company had 7,237,724 shares available for future grant under the 2015 Plan as of March 31, 2016. Stock option activity under the Company's stock option plan was as follows: (1) This excludes 29,634 canceled options for the three months ended March 31, 2016 initially granted from the legacy stock option plans. As these plans have been terminated, any options canceled are not added back to the existing option plan pool. The aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price of the options and the closing price of the Company's common stock. The Company's closing stock price as reported on the NASDAQ as of March 31, 2016 was $12.81. 15 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or 2015 ESPP, which became effective upon the IPO. The 2015 ESPP is intended to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Code, and is administered by the Company's board of directors and the Compensation Committee of the board of directors. The number of shares of common stock initially reserved for issuance under the 2015 ESPP was 720,000 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 ESPP to the lower of (i) 1% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the board of directors. On January 1, 2016 the shares issuable under the 2015 ESPP increased by 635,878. The Company had 1,316,305 shares available for future issuance under the 2015 ESPP as of March 31, 2016. Stock-based Compensation Expense Total stock-based compensation expense recognized was as follows (in thousands): At March 31, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested options, net of estimated forfeitures, was $31.5 million, which the Company expects to recognize over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.6 years. In determining the fair value of the stock-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of stock option awards granted to employees was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions for the three months ended March 31, 2016: 9. Income Taxes Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $3.2 million and zero, respectively. The income tax expense recorded for the first quarter of 2016 primarily related to current and deferred federal income taxes. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740 , Accounting for Income Taxes . As of March 31, 2016 and 2015, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $1.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2016 and 2015, $0.2 million and zero of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce the Company's annual effective tax rate because the majority of benefits are in the form of deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been recorded. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. As of March 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company accrued no interest and penalties in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. There were no interest and penalties included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. The Company does not expect the amount of existing unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly within the next 12 months. The Company files income tax returns in the United States and the Netherlands. The federal and state income tax returns are open under the statute of limitations subject to tax examinations for the tax years ended December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2015. To the extent the Company has tax attribute carryforwards, the tax years in which the attribute was generated may still be adjusted upon examination by the IRS or state tax authorities to the extent utilized in a future period. For the Netherlands, the tax administration can impose an additional assessment within five years from the year in which the tax debt originated. 16 10. Net Loss per Common Share Net Loss per Common Share Since the Company was in a loss position for all periods presented, basic net loss per common share is the same as diluted net loss per common share for all periods presented as the inclusion of all potential common shares outstanding would have been anti-dilutive. Potentially dilutive securities that were not included in the diluted per common share calculations because they would be anti-dilutive were as follows: 17 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2015, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of this report, our actual results could differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Forward-Looking Statements This discussion contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as "believe," "will," "may," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "should," "plan," "expect," "predict," "could," "potentially" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition, or state other "forward-looking" information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report in Part II, Item 1A - "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. We caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Overview We are a clinical-stage immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases. Our first-in-class technology platforms, which are designed to harness the body's natural immune system, are being investigated in cancer indications and have the potential to expand into autoimmune and infectious diseases. Our Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted, or LADD, Listeria monocytogenes technology platform is engineered to express tumor-associated antigens to induce specific and targeted immune responses. Based on compelling clinical data in advanced cancers, this platform is being developed as a treatment for multiple indications, including pancreatic, ovarian, lung and prostate cancers, mesothelioma and glioblastoma. Our STING Pathway Activator platform is designed to activate the intracellular Stimulator of Interferon Genes, or STING receptor, resulting in a potent tumor-specific immune response. Our B-select monoclonal antibody platform includes a number of immune modulating assets in research and preclinical development. We are also collaborating with leading global pharmaceutical companies to expand our products and technology platforms. Our lead LADD product candidate, CRS-207, is an immuno-oncology therapy, which is a class of therapies that leverage the patient's immune system to slow the growth and spread of, or eliminate, tumor cells). Immuno-oncology is an emerging field of cancer therapy that aims to activate the immune system in the tumor microenvironment to create and enhance anti-tumor immune responses, as well as to overcome the immuno-suppressive mechanisms that cancer cells have developed against the immune system. Recent developments in the field of immuno-oncology, including checkpoint inhibitors-therapies that have mechanisms focused on unmasking hidden cancer cells-have shown the potential to provide dramatic efficacy and extended survival, even in cancers where conventional therapies, such as surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, have failed. The immunotherapy field is rapidly advancing with new immuno-oncology combinations that focus on strengthening therapeutic efficacy in a wide range of cancers. We intend to pursue a broad strategy of combining our technology platforms with conventional and novel immuno-oncology therapies, based on their mechanisms of action, safety profiles and versatility. CRS-207 is currently being developed in metastatic pancreatic cancer, unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma and ovarian cancer. In a completed randomized controlled Phase 2a clinical trial in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients, CRS-207 demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in overall survival when combined with GVAX Pancreas, a cellular vaccine product candidate. The 93-patient two-arm Phase 2a clinical trial was designed to compare the combination of CRS-207 and GVAX Pancreas versus GVAX Pancreas alone. The trial met the primary efficacy endpoint of overall survival at an interim analysis and was stopped upon recommendation from the Data Monitoring Committee. Based on the data from this study, our lead immuno-oncology regimen of CRS-207 and GVAX Pancreas was granted Breakthrough Therapy designation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. Breakthrough Therapy designation is intended to expedite the development and review of products that treat serious or life-threatening conditions. We have obtained orphan drug designation for CRS-207 and GVAX Pancreas for the treatment of pancreatic cancer and for CRS-207 for the treatment of mesothelioma in the United States and European Union from the FDA and European Medicines 18 Agency, respectively. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to a drug or biologic intended to treat a rare disease or condition. Orphan drug designation entitles a party to certain financial incentives and can provide limited market exclusivity in certain circumstances. We are developing a pipeline of proprietary product candidates on our own and through partnerships. We have developed two LADD product candidates in collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc., or Janssen, targeting prostate and lung cancers and STING Activator product candidates in oncology under our worldwide collaboration with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis. In addition, led by Aduro Biotech Europe Holdings, Europe B.V. (fka BioNovion Holding B.V.), or Aduro Biotech Europe , we are developing monoclonal antibodies, or mAbs, with the potential to yield novel immunotherapy combinations. We have intellectual property protection on our LADD and STING Pathway Activator technology platforms and each of our product candidates, which we believe we will maintain into the 2030s. Since commencing our operations, our efforts have been focused on research, development and the advancement of our product candidates into clinical trials. As a result we have incurred significant losses. We have funded our operations primarily through the sale of common stock and convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, licensing agreements with pharmaceutical partners and revenue from government grants. We incurred a net loss of $28.8 million and $16.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of March 31, 2016, our accumulated deficit was $129.7 million. Financial Operations Overview Revenue We have not generated any revenue from product sales. Our revenue to date has been primarily derived from two research and license agreements we entered into with Janssen, a collaboration and license agreement we entered into with Novartis in March 2015, as well as research and development grants from the U.S. government. We recognize revenue related to research and development grants when the related research expenses are incurred and our specific performance obligations under the terms of the respective contracts are satisfied. We recognize revenue from upfront payments under our Janssen and Novartis agreements ratably over the term of our estimated period of performance under the agreement. In addition to receiving upfront payments, we may also be entitled to milestone and other contingent payments upon achieving predefined objectives. Revenue from milestones, if they are nonrefundable and deemed substantive, are recognized upon successful accomplishment of the milestones. To the extent that non-substantive milestones are achieved and we have remaining performance obligations, milestones are deferred and recognized as revenue over the estimated remaining period of performance. We expect that any revenue we generate from our research and license agreements with Janssen and Novartis, government research and development grants, and any future collaboration partners will fluctuate from year to year as a result of the timing and amount of milestones and other payments. Research and Development Expenses The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our product candidates, as well as the development of product candidates pursuant to our research and license agreement with Janssen. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Clinical trial costs, contract manufacturing and other development costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we advance our product candidates into and through clinical trials and pursue regulatory approval of our product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain regulatory approval is costly and time-consuming. The actual probability of success for our product candidates and technology platforms may be affected by a variety of factors including: the quality of our product candidates, early clinical data, investment in our clinical program, competition, manufacturing capability and commercial viability. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our product candidates. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel costs, expenses for outside professional services and other allocated expenses. Personnel costs consist of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation. Outside professional services consist of legal, accounting and audit services and other consulting fees. Allocated expenses consist of rent expense related to our office and 19 research and development facility. We have incurred additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including expenses related to compliance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and those of any national securities exchange on which our se curities are traded, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities and other administrative and professional services. Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants Loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants consists of losses from the remeasurement of the fair value of our liabilities related to our convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants. Prior to the IPO, our convertible preferred stock warrants were exercisable into shares that were contingently redeemable. Our common stock warrants were subject to performance conditions that could have resulted in the issuance of a variable number of shares. As such, these warrants were classified as liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets at their estimated fair values, and we recorded the change in the estimated fair values each reporting period as loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants. We continued to record adjustments to the estimated fair values of the convertible preferred stock warrants until they converted into common stock warrants upon the closing of the IPO. We also continued to record adjustments to the estimated fair value of our common stock warrants until the performance conditions lapsed in April 2015, at which time they were reclassified to additional paid-in capital. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest income from our cash equivalents and marketable securities. Other (Loss) Income, Net Other (loss) income, net, consists of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have statutory tax rates different from those in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rates will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to U.S. income, the availability of research and development tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from the examination of our tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. Should actual events or results differ from our current expectations, charges or credits to our income tax expense may become necessary. 20 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, a decrease of $5.3 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015. The decrease was primarily due to deferred revenue from the Janssen collaboration agreements. Grant revenue was $47,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016, a decrease of $289,000 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015, primarily due to grants expiring in 2015. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: Research and development expenses were $20.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, an increase of $10.3 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase was primarily attributed to a $6.3 million increase in contract manufacturing expense related to higher manufacturing and process development costs for GVAX pancreas and development programs in collaboration with Janssen and Novartis. During the first quarter of 2016, research and development expenses also increased due to a $1.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $1.1 million increase in clinical development expenses associated with ongoing trials for pancreatic and ovarian cancer and mesothelioma. 21 General and Administr ative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: General and administrative expenses were $9.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, an increase of $2.8 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase was primarily related to a $1.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, a $0.6 million increase in other general and administrative expenses primarily related to insurance and business taxes, a $0.4 million increase in personnel related expenses and a $0.4 million increase in facility costs due to expansion of our facilities to support company growth. Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants Loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants was zero for the three months ended March 31, 2016, a decrease of $9.3 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015. As of April 2015, all of the convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants were no longer subject to remeasurement due to the IPO or expiration of the performance condition and the total fair value was expensed on the statement of operations. Interest Income Interest income was $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, an increase of $0.5 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015. The interest income earned in 2016 relates to interest earned from our funds invested in cash equivalents and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $3.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to zero in 2015. The income tax expense recorded for the first quarter of 2016 primarily related to current and deferred federal income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2016, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $408.5 million. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and anticipated funding from our collaboration agreements will be sufficient to fund our planned operations through 2018. We have based our cash sufficiency estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, we could consume our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect or in excess of amounts that we currently expect, which could adversely affect our development activities. Our primary uses of capital are, and we expect will continue to be, compensation and related expenses, third-party clinical, manufacturing, and other research and development services, laboratory and related supplies and legal and other professional services. Cash used to fund operating expenses is impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses, as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates, specifically in connection with our Phase 2b ECLIPSE clinical trial in metastatic pancreatic cancer, manufacturing of our product candidates, and advancement of CRS-207 in combination with standard-of-care chemotherapy into Phase 3 clinical development for mesothelioma. We plan to continue to fund our operations and capital funding needs through equity and/or debt financing. We may also consider entering into additional collaboration arrangements or selectively partnering for clinical development and commercialization. In addition, we expect to continue to opportunistically seek access to the equity capital markets to support our development efforts and operations. The sale of additional equity would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants 22 that would restrict our oper ations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or partnering arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some of our rights to our technologies or rights to market and sell our products in certain geographies, grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, or issue equity that may be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. If we are not able to secure adequate additional funding, we may be forced to make reductions in spending, extend payment terms with suppliers, l iquidate assets where possible and/or suspend or curtail planned programs. Any of these actions could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $23.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to $8.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase in net cash used in operating activities was primarily due to higher net loss from operations resulting from increased operating expenses. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $9.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the purchase of $138.6 million of marketable securities and purchase of $1.4 million of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from maturities of marketable securities of $130.5 million. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to $22.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. The decrease was primarily related to net proceeds from the issuance of our convertible preferred stock in March 2015. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules. 23 Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments There were no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2016 to our contractual obligations and commitments described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Organization and Nature of Business Aduro Biotech, Inc., or the Company, is an immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases. The Company's technology platforms, which are designed to harness the body's natural immune system, are being investigated in cancer indications and have the potential to expand into autoimmune and infectious diseases. The Company operates in one business segment. The Company has developed three technology platforms, Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted or LADD, STING Pathway Activator and B-select monoclonal antibodies. The Company's LADD technology platform is based on proprietary attenuated strains of Listeria that have been engineered to express tumor-associated antigens to induce specific and targeted immune responses. This platform is being developed as a treatment for multiple indications, including mesothelioma, ovarian, pancreatic, lung and prostate cancers, and glioblastoma. The Company's STING Pathway Activator platform is designed to activate the intracellular Stimulator of Interferon Genes, or STING, receptor, resulting in a potent tumor-specific immune response. The Company's B-select monoclonal antibody platform includes a number of immune modulating assets in research and preclinical development and is led by the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary based in the Netherlands, Aduro Biotech Holdings, Europe B.V. (fka BioNovion Holding B.V.), or Aduro Biotech Europe. The Company is also collaborating with leading global pharmaceutical companies to expand its products and technology platforms. Initial Public Offering and Concurrent Private Placement On April 20, 2015, the Company closed its initial public offering, or IPO, and sold 8,050,000 shares of its common stock (inclusive of 1,050,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares) at a price to the public of $17.00 per share. The Company received aggregate net proceeds of $124.2 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses. The Company also sold to Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Inc., or NIBR, in a concurrent private placement 1,470,588 shares of common stock at a price of $17.00 per share for proceeds of $25.0 million. Upon the closing of the IPO, all then-outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock converted by their terms into 51,822,659 shares of common stock. Additionally, the Company amended and restated its certificate of incorporation effective April 20, 2015 to, among other things, change the authorized number of shares of common stock to 300,000,000 shares and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock to 10,000,000 shares. 2. Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates and Recent Accounting Pronouncements Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and follow the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted, and accordingly the balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2016 or for any other interim period or for any other future year. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2015 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 7 Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenue and expenses in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, contingent consideration, income taxes and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Auditing Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ( Topic 606 ). This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods and services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the currently effective guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. In July 2015, the FASB voted to defer the effective date of the ASU by one year to December 15, 2017 for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after that date. Entities are permitted to adopt ASU 2014-09 in accordance with the original effective date of December 15, 2016 if they choose. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing , which reduces the complexity when applying the guidance for identifying performance obligations and improves the operability and understandability of the license implementation guidance. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients , which amends the guidance on transition, collectability, noncash consideration and the presentation of sales and other similar taxes. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) . The standard changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that are not measured at fair value through net income. The Company will recognize an allowance for credit losses on available-for-sale securities rather than deductions in amortized cost. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for all periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 3. Fair Value Measurements The carrying amounts of certain of the Company's financial instruments, including cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their fair values due to their short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheets, as well as assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis or disclosed at fair value, are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with inputs used to measure their fair values. The accounting guidance for fair value provides a framework for measuring fair value, and requires certain disclosures about how fair value is determined. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received upon the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the reporting date. The accounting guidance also establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value based upon whether such inputs are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect market assumptions made by the reporting entity. The three-level hierarchy for the inputs to valuation techniques is briefly summarized as follows: Level 1 -Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date; Level 2 -Inputs are observable, unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the related assets or liabilities; and Level 3 -Unobservable inputs that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities that are supported by little or no market data. The Company's cash equivalents, which include money market funds, are classified as Level 1 because they are valued using quoted market prices. The Company's marketable securities consist of available-for-sale securities and are generally classified as Level 2 because their value is based on valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around the inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3. Level 3 liabilities consist of the contingent consideration liability. The following table sets forth the Company's financial instruments that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the fair value hierarchy (in thousands): 9 The acquisition-date fair value of the contingent consideration liability represents the future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specifie d development milestones for a product candidate. The fair value of the contingent consideration is based on the Company's probability-weighted discounted cash flow assessment that considers probability and timing of future payments. The fair value measure ment is based on significant Level 3 inputs such as anticipated timelines and probability of achieving development milestones. Changes in the fair value of the liability for contingent consideration, except for the impact of foreign currency, will be recog nized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations until settlement. The Company did not have any financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis as of June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. There were no transfers between the fair value measurement category levels during any of the periods presented. The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in the fair value of the Company's Level 3 financial liabilities (in thousands): The following tables summarize the estimated value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized holding gains and losses (in thousands): 10 The amortized cost and estimated fair value of the Company's available-for-sale marketable securities by contractual maturity are summarized below as of June 30, 2016 (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization expense was $382,000 and $126,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $739,000 and $219,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities Accrued expenses and other liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill The gross carrying amount of goodwill was as follows (in thousands): 11 Intangible assets The gross carrying amounts and net book value of our intangible assets were as follows (in thousands): Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. The license agreement is being amortized over a period of 20 years and the amortization expense is recorded in operating expenses. The increase in the gross carrying amount of intangible assets as of June 30, 2016 compared to December 31, 2015 reflected a positive impact of foreign currency exchange which was primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. dollar. Amortization expense was $140,000 and $277,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively. There was no amortization expense for the comparable periods in 2015. Based on finite-lived intangible assets recorded as of June 30, 2016, the estimated future amortization expense is as follows (in thousands): 6. Collaboration Agreements Novartis Agreement In March 2015, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis, pursuant to which the Company is collaborating worldwide with Novartis regarding the development and potential commercialization of product candidates containing an agonist of the molecular target known as STING in the field of oncology, including immuno-oncology and cancer vaccines. Under this agreement, or the Novartis Agreement, the Company granted Novartis a co-exclusive license to develop such products worldwide, an exclusive license to commercialize such products outside the United States and a non-exclusive license to support the Company in commercializing such products in the United States if it requests such support. The collaboration is guided by a joint steering committee with each party having final decision making authority regarding specified areas of development or commercialization. Under the Novartis Agreement, the Company received an upfront payment of $200.0 million in April 2015. During the second quarter of 2016, the Company earned a $35.0 million development milestone upon initiation of a Phase 1 trial for the first STING product candidate, ADU-S100, and recognized the payment as revenue in the period. The Company is also eligible to receive up to an additional $215.0 million in development milestones and up to an additional $250.0 million in regulatory approval milestones. The Company is responsible for 38% of the joint development costs worldwide and Novartis is responsible for the remaining 62% of the joint development costs worldwide. 12 The Company will also receive 50% of gross profits on sales of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States and 45% of gross profits for spe cified European countries and Japan. For each of these profit share countries, each party will be responsible for its respective commercial sharing percentage of all joint commercialization costs incurred in that country. For all other countries where the Company is not sharing profits, Novartis will be responsible for all commercialization costs and will pay the Company a royalty in the mid-teens on all net sales of product sold by Novartis, its affiliates and sublicensees, with such percentage subject to reduction post patent and data exclusivity expiration and subject to reduction, capped at a specified percentage, for royalties payable to third party licensors. Novartis' royalty obligation will run on a country-by-country basis until the later of expiration of the last valid claim covering the product, expiration of data exclusivity for the product or 12 years after first commercial sale of the product in such country. With respect to the United States, specified European countries and/or Japan, the Company may elect for such region to either reduce by 50% or to eliminate in full the Company's development and commercialization cost sharing obligation. If the Company elects to reduce its cost sharing percentage by 50% in any such region, then its profit share in such region will also be reduced by 50%. If the Company elects to eliminate its development cost sharing obligation, then such region will be removed from the profit share, and instead Novartis will owe the Company royalties on any net sales of product for such region, as described above. The Company recognizes revenue from collaboration, license or research arrangements when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. The Company has determined that the license does not have stand-alone value separable from the co-development services to be performed under the agreement, with the Company participating in the research and development services. As a result, the Company recognizes revenue from the $200.0 million upfront fee received on a straight-line basis over its estimated performance period of 13.5 years, commencing in July 2015, the date of the Joint Steering Committee's approval of the research and development plan. Changes in the estimated period of performance will be accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate. The Company will recognize substantive milestone payments in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Non-substantive milestone payments will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the remaining performance period. Costs associated with co-development activities performed under the agreement are included in research and development expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. Reimbursement of research and development costs by Novartis is included in collaboration and license revenue. The Company will recognize revenue from the sale of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States, will retain 50% of the gross profits from such sales, and will pay the remaining 50% of the gross profits to Novartis. The Company will receive from Novartis 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. Profit sharing payments made to or received from Novartis are aggregated by product by territory and are reported as expenses or revenues, as applicable. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, the Company recognized revenue from its collaboration with Novartis totaling $3.7 million and $7.4 million, respectively, related to amortization of the upfront fee. The remaining balance of the upfront fees of $185.2 million is included in deferred revenue at June 30, 2016. Janssen ADU-214 Agreement In November 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement with Janssen, or Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, to develop a drug for the treatment of lung cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-214 for any and all uses. Janssen has agreed not to administer or cause to be administered ADU-214 in humans in clinical trials for the treatment of pancreatic cancer or mesothelioma. The Company was responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until investigational new drug application, or IND, approval which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2015. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement through June 30, 2016, the Company received an upfront license fee of $30.0 million and substantive and non-substantive milestone payments of $21.0 million upon completion of various development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $766.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on any net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from high-single digits to low teens based on the aggregate annual net sales of licensed products worldwide and based on the country of sale. The upfront license fee of $30.0 million was recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreement through October 2015. In addition the Company recognized milestone payments of $21.0 million in 2015 as all performance obligations were achieved. 13 Janssen ADU-741 and GVAX Prostate Agreements In May 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement, or Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, and a GVAX Prostate License Agreement, or Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, with Janssen Biotech, Inc., or Janssen, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson Development Corporation, to collaborate on the development of a drug for the treatment of prostate cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-741 for any and all uses. The Company was responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until IND approval which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2015. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement through June 30, 2016, the Company received an upfront payment of $12.0 million and substantive and non-substantive milestone payments of $10.0 million upon completion of certain development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $343.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from mid-single digits to low teens based on aggregate annual net sales and based on the country of sale. Under the Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing GVAX Prostate for any and all uses. The Company received an upfront payment of $500,000 in May 2014 and is eligible to receive an additional $2.0 million on the achievement of a specified commercial milestone. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the high single digits based on net sales of the product. The upfront fees received totaling $12.5 million were recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreements through October 2015. In addition, the Company recognized milestone payments of $10 million in 2015 as all performance obligations were achieved. Pharma License Agreement In connection with the acquisition of Aduro Biotech Europe in October 2015, the Company became party to an agreement with a third-party pharmaceutical company, or Pharma. The agreement sets forth the parties' respective obligations for development, commercialization, regulatory and manufacturing and supply activities for antibody product candidates. The Company identified the following performance deliverables under the agreement: 1) the license, 2) the obligation to provide research activities and 3) the obligation to participate on a Joint Research Committee. The Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments, including up to $312.0 million in potential development milestone payments, and up to $135.0 million in commercial and net sales milestones for a product candidate. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the mid-single digits to low teens based on net sales of the product. The Company considered the provisions of the multiple-element arrangement guidance in determining how to recognize the total consideration of the agreement. The Company determined that none of the deliverables have standalone value; all of these obligations will be delivered throughout the estimated period of performance and therefore are accounted for as a single unit of accounting. The Company determined that all of the future contingent payments meet the definition of a milestone. Accordingly, revenue for the achievement of these milestones will be recognized in the period when the milestone is achieved and collectability is reasonably assured. No amounts had been recognized as revenue for any of these milestones for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016. 7. Commitments and Contingencies Leases The Company leases its office and research and development facility in Berkeley, California, under a non-cancelable operating lease. In February 2015, the Company amended its office lease agreement to increase the total square footage to approximately 25,000 square feet and extended the term of the lease to expire on December 31, 2018. The lease also contains an option to extend the lease for an additional two years. 14 In September 2015, the Company entered into an Office/Laboratory Lease for approximately 56,000 square feet of office and labo ratory space at a new facility located in Berkeley, California. The Company began incurring rent expense when the landlord delivered possession of the facility to the Company in March 2016. During the second quarter of 2016, the Company amended the lease t o include approximately 7,000 additional square feet and on June 30, 2016 the Company exercised its option for approximately 41,000 additional square feet, representing the remaining space within the facility. The lease has an initial term of twelve years, which was extended to approximately thirteen and a half years as a result of the option exercised on June 30, 2016. The Company has the right to further extend the lease term for up to two renewal terms of five years each, provided that the rental rate wo uld be subject to market adjustment at the beginning of each renewal term. During 2016, we established a letter of credit with Bank of America Merrill Lynch as security for the lease in the amount of $0.5 million. The letter of credit is collateralized by a certificate of deposit for $0.5 million which has been included in restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2016. The Company also has office and laboratory space in Oss, the Netherlands, for employees of Aduro Biotech Europe. The term of the lease is through December 2017, with a one-year renewal option. Rent expense was $1.0 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $1.2 million and $0.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. Under the terms of the lease agreements, the Company is also responsible for certain insurance, property tax and maintenance expenses. Future minimum payments under the Company's office leases at June 30, 2016 are as follows (in thousands): Indemnification In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into agreements that may include indemnification provisions. Pursuant to such agreements, the Company may indemnify, hold harmless and defend an indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party. Some of the provisions will limit losses to those arising from third party actions. In some cases, the indemnification will continue after the termination of the agreement. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these provisions is not determinable. The Company has never incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification provisions. The Company has also entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and officers that may require the Company to indemnify its directors and officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. The Company currently has directors' and officers' insurance. Legal We are not party to any material legal proceedings at this time. From time to time, we may become involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Other Commitments The Company has various manufacturing, clinical, research and other contracts with vendors in the conduct of the normal course of its business. All contracts are terminable, with varying provisions regarding termination. If a contract with a specific vendor were to be terminated, the Company would only be obligated for the products or services that the Company had received at the time the termination became effective as well as non-cancelable and non-refundable payment obligations incurred by the vendor for products or services before the termination became effective. In the case of terminating a clinical trial agreement at a particular site, the Company would also be obligated to provide continued support for appropriate medical procedures at that site until completion or termination. 15 8. Equity Incentive Plans 2015 Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2015 Plan, which became effective upon the IPO and provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and other forms of stock awards to its employees, directors and consultants. The Company's 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2009 Plan, terminated on the date the 2015 Plan was adopted. Options granted or shares issued under the 2009 Plan that were outstanding on the date the 2015 Plan became effective will remain subject to the terms of the 2009 Plan. The 2015 Plan is administered by the board of directors or a committee appointed by the board of directors, which determines the types of awards to be granted, including the number of shares subject to the awards, the exercise price and the vesting schedule. The exercise price of incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options will be no less than 100% of the fair value per share of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. If an individual owns capital stock representing more than 10% of the voting shares, the price of each share will be at least 110% of the fair value on the date of grant. Options expire after 10 years (five years for stockholders owning greater than 10% of the voting stock). The number of shares of common stock initially reserved for issuance under the 2015 Plan was 6,134,292 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan to the lower of (i) 4% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the board of directors. On January 1, 2016 the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan increased by 2,543,513. The Company had 6,483,623 shares available for future grant under the 2015 Plan as of June 30, 2016. Stock option activity under the Company's stock option plan was as follows: (1) This excludes 34,162 canceled options for the six months ended June 30, 2016 initially granted from the legacy stock option plans. As these plans have been terminated, any options canceled are not added back to the existing option plan pool. The aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price of the options and the closing price of the Company's common stock. The Company's closing stock price as reported on the NASDAQ as of June 30, 2016 was $11.31. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 was $0.4 million and $3.9 million, respectively. 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or 2015 ESPP, which became effective upon the IPO. The 2015 ESPP is intended to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Code, and is administered by the Company's board of directors and the Compensation Committee of the board of directors. The number of shares of common stock initially reserved for issuance under the 2015 ESPP was 720,000 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 ESPP to the lower of (i) 1% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the board of directors. On January 1, 2016 the shares issuable under the 2015 ESPP increased by 635,878. The Company had 1,259,761 shares available for future issuance under the 2015 ESPP as of June 30, 2016. 16 Stock-based Compensation Expense Total stock-based compensation expense recognized was as follows (in thousands): As of June 30, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested options, net of estimated forfeitures, was $33.8 million, which the Company expects to recognize over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.5 years. In determining the fair value of the stock-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of stock option awards granted to employees was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions for the six months ended June 30, 2016: 9. Income Taxes Income tax expense for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $1.5 million and zero, respectively, and $4.7 million and zero for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax expense recorded for the first half of 2016 primarily related to current and deferred federal income taxes. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740 , Accounting for Income Taxes . As of June 30, 2016 and 2015, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $1.4 million and $0.7 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2016 and 2015, $0.2 million and zero of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce the Company's annual effective tax rate because the majority of benefits are in the form of deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been recorded. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. As of June 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company accrued no interest and penalties in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. There were no interest and penalties included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. The Company does not expect the amount of existing unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly within the next 12 months. The Company files income tax returns in the United States and the Netherlands. The federal and state income tax returns are open under the statute of limitations subject to tax examinations for the tax years ended December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2015. To the extent the Company has tax attribute carryforwards, the tax years in which the attribute was generated may still be adjusted upon examination by the IRS or state tax authorities to the extent utilized in a future period. For the Netherlands, the tax administration can impose an additional assessment within five years from the year in which the tax debt originated. 17 10. Net Income (Loss) per Common Share Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share gives effect to dilutive stock options and warrants. The Company uses the treasury-stock method to compute diluted earnings per share with respect to its stock options and warrants. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share (in thousands except share and per share amounts): The following securities were excluded from diluted net income (loss) per common share because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive: 18 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2015, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth in the "Risk Factors" section of this report, our actual results could differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Forward-Looking Statements This discussion contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as "believe," "will," "may," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "should," "plan," "expect," "predict," "could," "potentially" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition, or state other "forward-looking" information. These statements relate to our future plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report in Part II, Item 1A - "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. We caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Overview We are an immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases. Our technology platforms, which are designed to harness the body's natural immune system, are being investigated in cancer indications and have the potential to expand into autoimmune and infectious diseases. Immuno-oncology is an emerging field of cancer therapy that aims to activate the immune system in the tumor microenvironment to create and enhance anti-tumor immune responses, as well as to overcome the immuno-suppressive mechanisms that cancer cells have developed against the immune system. Recent developments in the field of immuno-oncology, including checkpoint inhibitors-therapies that have mechanisms focused on unmasking hidden cancer cells-have shown the potential to provide efficacy and extended survival, even in cancers where conventional therapies, such as surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, have failed. The immunotherapy field is rapidly advancing with new immuno-oncology combinations that focus on strengthening therapeutic efficacy in a wide range of cancers. We intend to pursue a broad strategy of combining our technology platforms with conventional and novel immuno-oncology therapies, based on their mechanisms of action, safety profiles and versatility. Our LADD (Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted) technology platform is based on proprietary attenuated strains of Listeria that have been engineered to express tumor-associated antigens to induce specific and targeted immune responses. One of our LADD product candidates, CRS-207, expresses the antigen mesothelin and is currently being developed in unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma, ovarian cancer, and pancreatic cancer. A second LADD agent is being evaluated in glioblastoma. We have also developed two LADD product candidates in collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc., or Janssen, targeting prostate and lung cancers. Our STING Pathway Activator platform is designed to activate the intracellular Stimulator of Interferon Genes, or STING receptor, resulting in a potent tumor-specific immune response. Product candidates being developed through this platform to stimulate anti-tumor immunity are being advanced under our worldwide collaboration with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis. The lead STING product candidate, ADU-S100, has entered into Phase 1 clinical testing in patients with cutaneously accessible metastatic solid tumors or lymphomas. Our B-select monoclonal antibody platform includes a number of immune modulating assets in research and preclinical development. Agents from this platform, such as our anti-APRIL, anti-CTLA4 and anti-PD1, have the potential to yield novel immunotherapy combinations. We have intellectual property protection on our LADD and STING Pathway Activator technology platforms and each of our product candidates, which we believe we will maintain into the 2030s. 19 Since commencing our operations, our efforts have been focused on research, development and the advancement of our product candidates into clinical trials. As a result we have incurred significant losses. We have funded our operations primarily through the sale of common stock and convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, licensing agre ements with pharmaceutical partners and revenue from government grants. We incurred net income of $2.3 million and a net loss of $26.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and a net loss of $26.5 million and $42.9 millio n for the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of June 30, 2016, our accumulated deficit was $127.4 million. Financial Operations Overview Revenue We have not generated any revenue from product sales. Our revenue to date has been primarily derived from two research and license agreements we entered into with Janssen, a collaboration and license agreement we entered into with Novartis in March 2015, as well as research and development grants from the U.S. government. We recognize revenue from upfront payments under our Janssen and Novartis agreements ratably over the term of our estimated period of performance under the agreement. In addition to receiving upfront payments, we may also be entitled to milestone and other contingent payments upon achieving predefined objectives. Revenue from milestones, if they are nonrefundable and deemed substantive, are recognized upon successful accomplishment of the milestones. To the extent that non-substantive milestones are achieved and we have remaining performance obligations, milestones are deferred and recognized as revenue over the estimated remaining period of performance. We recognize revenue related to research and development grants when the related research expenses are incurred and our specific performance obligations under the terms of the respective contracts are satisfied. We expect that any revenue we generate from our research and license agreements with Janssen and Novartis, government research and development grants, and any future collaboration partners will fluctuate from year to year as a result of the timing and amount of milestones and other payments. Research and Development Expenses The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our product candidates, as well as the development of product candidates pursuant to our research and license agreement with Janssen. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Clinical trial costs, contract manufacturing and other development costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the future as we advance our product candidates into and through clinical trials and pursue regulatory approval of our product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain regulatory approval is costly and time-consuming. The actual probability of success for our product candidates and technology platforms may be affected by a variety of factors including: the quality of our product candidates, early clinical data, investment in our clinical program, competition, manufacturing capability and commercial viability. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our product candidates. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel costs, expenses for outside professional services and other allocated expenses. Personnel costs consist of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation. Outside professional services consist of legal, accounting and audit services, insurance expenses, investor relations activities, administrative services and other consulting fees. Allocated expenses consist of rent expense related to our office and research and development facility. Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants Loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants consists of losses from the remeasurement of the fair value of our liabilities related to our convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants. 20 Prior to the completion of our IPO in April 2015, our convertible preferred stock warrants were exercisable into shares that were contingently redeemable. Our common stock warrants were subject to pe rformance conditions that could have resulted in the issuance of a variable number of shares. As such, these warrants were classified as liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets at their estimated fair values, and we recorded the change in the estimated fair values each reporting period as loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants. We continued to record adjustments to the estimated fair values of the convertible preferred stock warrants until they converted into common stock warrant s upon the closing of the IPO. We also continued to record adjustments to the estimated fair value of our common stock warrants until the performance conditions lapsed in April 2015, at which time they were reclassified to additional paid-in capital. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest income from our cash equivalents and marketable securities. Other (Loss) Income, Net Other (loss) income, net, consists of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have statutory tax rates different from those in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rates will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to U.S. income, the availability of research and development tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from the examination of our tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. Should actual events or results differ from our current expectations, charges or credits to our income tax expense may become necessary. 21 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $38.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016, an increase of $29.3 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to the receipt of $35.0 million in connection with the achievement of a milestone under our agreement with Novartis in the second quarter of 2016. Grant revenue was $41,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016, a decrease of $0.2 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015, primarily due to grants expiring in 2015. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015: 22 Research and development expenses were $27.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016, an increase of $13.3million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015. The increase was attributed to an $8.3 million increa se in contract manufacturing expense primarily for GVAX Pancreas manufacturing activities. In addition, there was a $2.9 million increase in contract research expense primarily related to sponsored research grants made to UC Berkeley and a $1.8 million inc rease in personnel related expenses and a $1.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount. This was partially offset by a $3.2 million decrease in licensing fees paid in 2015. General and Administrative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015: General and administrative expenses were $8.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016, an increase of $2.8 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to growth of the company and the associated increased expenses of $1.5 million in personnel costs and $1.3 million in outside professional services including legal, audit and tax services. Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants There was no loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants for the three months ended June 30, 2016, compared to $16.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015. In April 2015, all of the convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants were no longer subject to remeasurement due to the completion of our IPO or expiration of the performance condition and the total fair value was expensed on the statement of operations and reclassified to additional paid in capital. Interest Income Interest income was $0.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016, an increase of $0.5 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015. Interest income earned in 2016 relates to interest earned from our funds invested in cash equivalents and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $1.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016, primarily related to current and deferred federal income taxes. There was no provision for income taxes in the second quarter of 2015. 23 Comparison of the Six Months Ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $42.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, an increase of $24.1 million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to the receipt of $35.0 million in connection with the achievement of a milestone under our agreement with Novartis in the second quarter of 2016. This increase was partially offset by the decrease in amortization of upfront license revenue from Janssen collaborations in 2015. Grant revenue was $88,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2016, a decrease of $0.5 million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015, primarily due to grants expiring in 2015. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015: 24 Research and development expenses were $47.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, an increase of $23.6million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase was primarily attributed to a $14.5 million increase in contract manufacturing expense primarily for GVAX Pancreas manufacturing activities. The increase was also attributable to a $3.4 million increase in contract research expense primarily related to sponsored research grants made to UC Berkeley, a $3.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, a $1.7 million increase in personnel related expenses due to increased headcount and a $1.6 million increase in clinical development expense associated with our ongoing trials in pancreatic cance r, ovarian cancer and mesothelioma. These increases were partially offset by a $3.0 million decrease in licensing fees paid in 2015. General and Administrative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the six months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015: General and administrative expenses were $17.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, an increase of $5.6 million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to continued growth of the company and the associated increased expenses of $1.9 million in personnel costs, $1.4 million in outside professional services including legal, audit and tax services and $1.1 million for the expansion of our facilities. Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants There was no loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants for the six months ended June 30, 2016, compared to $26.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. In April 2015, all of the convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants were no longer subject to remeasurement due to the IPO or expiration of the performance condition and the total fair value was expensed on the statement of operations and reclassified to additional paid in capital. Interest Income Interest income was $1.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, an increase of $1.0 million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2015. The interest income earned in 2016 relates to interest earned from our funds invested in cash equivalents and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $4.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, primarily related to current and deferred federal income taxes. There was no provision for income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2016, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $396.9 million. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and anticipated funding from our collaboration agreements will be sufficient to fund our planned operations through 2018. We have based our cash sufficiency estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, we could consume our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect or in excess of amounts that we currently expect, which could adversely affect our development activities. 25 Our primary uses of capital are, and we expect will continue to be, compensation a nd relat ed expenses, clinical development costs including manufacturing and other research and development services, laboratory and related supplies and legal and other professional services. Cash used to fund operating expenses is impacted by the timing of when w e pay expenses, as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for the development, manufacturing and potential commercialization of our product can didates. We plan to continue to fund our operations and capital funding needs through equity and/or debt financing. We may also consider entering into additional collaboration arrangements or selectively partnering for clinical development and commercialization. In addition, we expect to continue to opportunistically seek access to the equity capital markets to support our development efforts and operations. The sale of additional equity would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or partnering arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some of our rights to our technologies or rights to market and sell our products in certain geographies, grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, or issue equity that may be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. If we are not able to secure adequate additional funding, we may be forced to make reductions in spending, extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible and/or suspend or curtail planned programs. Any of these actions could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $25.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $173.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the upfront payment of $200.0 million received from Novartis in the first half of 2015. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $21.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, compared to $1.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to increase in purchase of $11.1 million of marketable securities and purchase of $10.5 million of property and equipment primarily related to leasehold improvements. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016, compared to $173.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2015. The decrease was primarily related to $174.0 million net proceeds from the issuance of our convertible preferred stock and the IPO and private placement during the six months ended June 30, 2015. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 26 There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the thre e months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments During the six months ended June 30, 2016, we exercised our option to lease additional space under our new lease agreement for office/laboratory space in Berkeley, California. Refer to Note 7 of the Condensed Consolidated Notes to the Financial Statements for more information. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2016:Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Organization and Nature of Business Aduro Biotech, Inc., or the Company, is an immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases. The Company's technology platforms, which are designed to harness the body's natural immune system, are being investigated in cancer indications and have the potential to expand into autoimmune and infectious diseases. The Company operates in one business segment. The Company has developed three technology platforms, Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted, or LADD, STING Pathway Activator and B-select monoclonal antibodies. The Company's LADD technology platform is based on proprietary attenuated strains of Listeria that have been engineered to express tumor-associated antigens to induce specific and targeted immune responses. This platform is being developed as a treatment for multiple indications, including mesothelioma, ovarian, pancreatic, lung and prostate cancers, and glioblastoma. The Company's STING Pathway Activator platform is designed to activate the intracellular Stimulator of Interferon Genes, or STING, receptor, resulting in a potent tumor-specific immune response. The Company's B-select monoclonal antibody platform includes a number of immune modulating assets in research and preclinical development and is led by the Company's wholly owned subsidiary based in the Netherlands, Aduro Biotech Holdings, Europe B.V., or Aduro Biotech Europe. The Company is also collaborating with leading global pharmaceutical companies to expand its products and technology platforms. Initial Public Offering and Concurrent Private Placement On April 20, 2015, the Company closed its initial public offering, or IPO, and sold 8,050,000 shares of its common stock (inclusive of 1,050,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares) at a price to the public of $17.00 per share. The Company received aggregate net proceeds of $124.2 million, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses. The Company also sold to Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Inc., or NIBR, in a concurrent private placement 1,470,588 shares of common stock at a price of $17.00 per share for proceeds of $25.0 million. Upon the closing of the IPO, all then-outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock converted by their terms into 51,822,659 shares of common stock. Additionally, the Company amended and restated its certificate of incorporation effective April 20, 2015 to, among other things, change the authorized number of shares of common stock to 300,000,000 shares and the authorized number of shares of preferred stock to 10,000,000 shares. 2. Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates and Recent Accounting Pronouncements Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and follow the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted, and accordingly the balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2016 or for any other interim period or for any other future year. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2015 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 7 Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenue and expenses in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, contingent consideration, income taxes and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Auditing Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ( Topic 606 ). This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods and services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the currently effective guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. In July 2015, the FASB voted to defer the effective date of the ASU by one year to December 15, 2017 for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after that date. Entities are permitted to adopt ASU 2014-09 in accordance with the original effective date of December 15, 2016 if they choose. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing , which reduces the complexity when applying the guidance for identifying performance obligations and improves the operability and understandability of the license implementation guidance. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients , which amends the guidance on transition, collectability, noncash consideration and the presentation of sales and other similar taxes. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) . The standard changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that are not measured at fair value through net income. The Company will recognize an allowance for credit losses on available-for-sale securities rather than deductions in amortized cost. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for all periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) : Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 identifies how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the Statement of Cash Flows. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The standard should be applied retrospectively and early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 3. Fair Value Measurements The carrying amounts of certain of the Company's financial instruments, including cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their fair values due to their short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheets, as well as assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis or disclosed at fair value, are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with inputs used to measure their fair values. The accounting guidance for fair value provides a framework for measuring fair value, and requires certain disclosures about how fair value is determined. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received upon the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The accounting guidance also establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value based upon whether such inputs are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect market assumptions made by the reporting entity. The three-level hierarchy for the inputs to valuation techniques is briefly summarized as follows: Level 1 -Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date; Level 2 -Inputs are observable, unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the related assets or liabilities; and Level 3 -Unobservable inputs that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities that are supported by little or no market data. The Company's cash equivalents, which include money market funds, are classified as Level 1 because they are valued using quoted market prices. The Company's marketable securities consist of available-for-sale securities and are generally classified as Level 2 because their value is based on valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around the inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3. Level 3 liabilities consist of the contingent consideration liability. The following table sets forth the Company's financial instruments that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the fair value hierarchy (in thousands): 9 The acquisition-date fair value of the contingent consideration liability represents the future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified development milestones for a product candidate. The fair value of the contingent consideration is based on the Company's probability-weighted discounted cash flow assessment that considers probability and timing of future payments. The fair value measurement is based on significant Level 3 inputs such as anticipated timelines and probability of achieving development milestones. Changes in the fair value of the liability for contingent consideration, except for the impact of foreign currency, will be recognized in the condensed consolidated statements of operations until settlement. The Company did not have any financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. There were no transfers between the fair value measurement category levels during any of the periods presented. The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in the fair value of the Company's Level 3 financial liabilities (in thousands): The following tables summarize the estimated value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized holding gains and losses (in thousands): 10 The amortized cost and estimated fair value of the Company's available-for-sale marketable securities by contractual maturity are summarized below as of September 30, 2016 (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): Depreciation and amortization expense was $490,000 and $162,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $1.2 million and $381,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities Accrued expenses and other liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill The gross carrying amount of goodwill was as follows (in thousands): In September 2016, the Company filed its 2015 Netherlands tax return and finalized the purchase price accounting related to its acquisition of Aduro Biotech Europe (formerly known as BioNovion Holding B.V.) resulting in a measurement period adjustment to goodwill of $490,000. 11 Intangible assets The gross carrying amounts and net book value of our intangible assets were as follows (in thousands): Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. The license agreement is being amortized over a period of 20 years and the amortization expense is recorded in operating expenses. The increase in the gross carrying amount of intangible assets as of September 30, 2016 compared to December 31, 2015 reflected a positive impact of foreign currency exchange which was primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. dollar. Amortization expense was $138,000 and $415,000 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively. There was no amortization expense for the comparable periods in 2015. Based on finite-lived intangible assets recorded as of September 30, 2016, the estimated future amortization expense is as follows (in thousands): 6. Collaboration Agreements Novartis Agreement In March 2015, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis, pursuant to which the Company is collaborating worldwide with Novartis regarding the development and potential commercialization of product candidates containing an agonist of the molecular target known as STING in the field of oncology, including immuno-oncology and cancer vaccines. Under this agreement, or the Novartis Agreement, the Company granted Novartis a co-exclusive license to develop such products worldwide, an exclusive license to commercialize such products outside the United States and a non-exclusive license to support the Company in commercializing such products in the United States if it requests such support. The collaboration is guided by a joint steering committee with each party having final decision making authority regarding specified areas of development or commercialization. Under the Novartis Agreement, the Company received an upfront payment of $200.0 million in April 2015. During the second quarter of 2016, the Company earned a $35.0 million development milestone upon initiation of a Phase 1 trial for the first STING product candidate, ADU-S100, and recognized the payment as revenue in the period. The Company is also eligible to receive up to an additional $215.0 million in development milestones and up to an additional $250.0 million in regulatory approval milestones. 12 The Company is responsible for 38% of the joint development costs worldwide and Nova rtis is responsible for the remaining 62% of the joint development costs worldwide. The Company will also receive 50% of gross profits on sales of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States and 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. For each of these profit share countries, each party will be responsible for its respective commercial sharing percentage of all joint commercialization costs incurred in that country. For all other countries where the Company is not sharing profits, Novartis will be responsible for all commercialization costs and will pay the Company a royalty in the mid-teens on all net sales of product sold by Novartis, its affiliates and sublicensees, with such percentage subject to reduction post patent and data exclusivity expiration and subject to reduction, capped at a specified percentage, for royalties payable to third party licensors. Novartis' royalty obligation will run on a country-by-country basis until the later of expiration of the last valid claim covering the product, expiration of data exclusivity for the product or 12 years after first commercial sale of the product in such country. With respect to the United States, specified European countries and/or Japan, the Company may elect for such region to either reduce by 50% or to eliminate in full the Company's development and commercialization cost sharing obligation. If the Company elects to reduce its cost sharing percentage by 50% in any such region, then its profit share in such region will also be reduced by 50%. If the Company elects to eliminate its development cost sharing obligation, then such region will be removed from the profit share, and instead Novartis will owe the Company royalties on any net sales of product for such region, as described above. The Company recognizes revenue from collaboration, license or research arrangements when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. The Company has determined that the license does not have stand-alone value separable from the co-development services to be performed under the agreement, with the Company participating in the research and development services. As a result, the Company recognizes revenue from the $200.0 million upfront fee received on a straight-line basis over its estimated performance period of 13.5 years, commencing in July 2015, the date of the Joint Steering Committee's approval of the research and development plan. Changes in the estimated period of performance will be accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate. The Company will recognize substantive milestone payments in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Non-substantive milestone payments will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the remaining performance period. Costs associated with co-development activities performed under the agreement are included in research and development expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. Reimbursement of research and development costs by Novartis is included in collaboration and license revenue. The Company will recognize revenue from the sale of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States, will retain 50% of the gross profits from such sales, and will pay the remaining 50% of the gross profits to Novartis. The Company will receive from Novartis 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. Profit sharing payments made to or received from Novartis are aggregated by product by territory and are reported as expenses or revenues, as applicable. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company recognized revenue from its collaboration with Novartis totaling $3.7 million and $11.1 million, respectively, related to amortization of the upfront fee. The remaining balance of the upfront fees of $181.8 million is included in deferred revenue at September 30, 2016. In addition, the Company recognized $35.0 million in revenue from the achievement of a milestone during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Janssen ADU-214 Agreement In November 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement, or the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, with Janssen Biotech Inc., or Janssen, a wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson Development Corporation, to develop a drug for the treatment of lung cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-214 for any and all uses. Janssen has agreed not to administer or cause to be administered ADU-214 in humans in clinical trials for the treatment of pancreatic cancer or mesothelioma. The Company was responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until investigational new drug application, or IND, approval which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2015. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement through September 30, 2016, the Company received an upfront license fee of $30.0 million and substantive and non-substantive milestone payments of $21.0 million upon completion of various development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $766.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on any net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from high-single digits to low teens based on the aggregate annual net sales of licensed products worldwide and based on the country of sale. 13 The upfront license fee of $30.0 million was recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreement through October 2015. In addition , the Company recognized milestone payments of $21.0 million in 2015 as all performance obligations were achieved. Janssen ADU-741 and GVAX Prostate Agreements In May 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement, or the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, and a GVAX Prostate License Agreement, or Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, with Janssen to collaborate on the development of a drug for the treatment of prostate cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-741 for any and all uses. The Company was responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until IND approval which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2015. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement through September 30, 2016, the Company received an upfront payment of $12.0 million and substantive and non-substantive milestone payments of $10.0 million upon completion of certain development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $343.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from mid-single digits to low teens based on aggregate annual net sales and based on the country of sale. Under the Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing GVAX Prostate for any and all uses. The Company received an upfront payment of $500,000 in May 2014 and is eligible to receive an additional $2.0 million on the achievement of a specified commercial milestone. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the high single digits based on net sales of the product. The upfront fees received totaling $12.5 million were recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreements through October 2015. In addition, the Company recognized milestone payments of $10.0 million in 2015 as all performance obligations were achieved. Pharma License Agreement In connection with the acquisition of Aduro Biotech Europe in October 2015, the Company became party to an agreement with a third-party pharmaceutical company, or Pharma. The agreement sets forth the parties' respective obligations for development, commercialization, regulatory and manufacturing and supply activities for antibody product candidates. The Company identified the following performance deliverables under the agreement: 1) the license, 2) the obligation to provide research activities and 3) the obligation to participate on a Joint Research Committee. The Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments, including up to $312.0 million in potential development milestone payments, and up to $135.0 million in commercial and net sales milestones for a product candidate. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the mid-single digits to low teens based on net sales of the product. The Company considered the provisions of the multiple-element arrangement guidance in determining how to recognize the total consideration of the agreement. The Company determined that none of the deliverables have standalone value; all of these obligations will be delivered throughout the estimated period of performance and therefore are accounted for as a single unit of accounting. The Company determined that all of the future contingent payments meet the definition of a milestone. Accordingly, revenue for the achievement of these milestones will be recognized in the period when the milestone is achieved and collectability is reasonably assured. No amounts had been recognized as revenue for any of these milestones for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016. 14 7. Commitments and Contingencies Leases The Company moved into its new corporate office and laboratory facility located in Berkeley, California in August, 2016. The Company's offices are leased pursuant to an Office/Laboratory Lease that was entered into in September 2015, or the Heinz Lease. The Company began incurring rent expense when the landlord delivered possession of the facility to the Company in March 2016. Initially, the Heinz Lease was for approximately 56,000 square feet with an option for the Company to lease the remainder of the space within the facility. During the second quarter of 2016, the Company amended the lease to include approximately 7,000 additional square feet and on June 30, 2016 the Company exercised its option for approximately 41,000 additional square feet, representing the remaining space within the facility. The Heinz Lease had an initial term of twelve years, which was extended to approximately thirteen and a half years as a result of the option exercised on June 30, 2016. The Company has the right to further extend the Heinz Lease term for up to two renewal terms of five years each, provided that the rental rate would be subject to market adjustment at the beginning of each renewal term. The Company continues to occupy and lease its former office and research and development facility in Berkeley, California, under a non-cancelable operating lease, or the Bancroft Lease. In February 2015, the Company amended the Bancroft Lease agreement to increase the total square footage to approximately 25,000 square feet and extended the term of the Bancroft Lease to expire on December 31, 2018. The Bancroft Lease also contains an option to extend the lease for an additional two years. The Company plans to transition the entirety of its Berkeley operations to its Heinz facility and in accordance with the terms of the Bancroft Lease, the Company intends to either sublease this space or find a replacement tenant. During 2016, the Company established a letter of credit with Bank of America Merrill Lynch as security for the Heinz Lease in the amount of $0.5 million. The letter of credit is collateralized by a certificate of deposit for $0.5 million which has been included in restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2016. The Company also has office and laboratory space in Oss, the Netherlands, for employees of Aduro Biotech Europe. The term of the Oss lease is through December 2017, with a one-year renewal option. Rent expense was $1.4 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $2.6 million and $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. Under the terms of the lease agreements, the Company is also responsible for certain insurance, property tax and maintenance expenses. Future minimum payments under the Company's office leases at September 30, 2016 are as follows (in thousands): Indemnification In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into agreements that may include indemnification provisions. Pursuant to such agreements, the Company may indemnify, hold harmless and defend an indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party. Some of the provisions will limit losses to those arising from third party actions. In some cases, the indemnification will continue after the termination of the agreement. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these provisions is not determinable. The Company has never incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification provisions. The Company has also entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and officers that may require the Company to indemnify its directors and officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. The Company currently has directors' and officers' insurance. Legal The Company is not party to any material legal proceedings at this time. From time to time, the Company may become involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. 15 Other Commitments The Company has various manufacturing, clinical, research and other contracts with vendors in the conduct of the normal course of its business. All contracts are terminable, with varying provisions regarding termination. If a contract with a specific vendor were to be terminated, the Company would only be obligated for the products or services that the Company had received at the time the termination became effective as well as non-cancelable and non-refundable payment obligations incurred by the vendor for products or services before the termination became effective. In the case of terminating a clinical trial agreement at a particular site, the Company would also be obligated to provide continued support for appropriate medical procedures at that site until completion or termination. 8. Stockholders' Equity At-the-Market Sales Agreement In May 2016, the Company entered into an "at-the-market" sales agreement, or the Sales Agreement, with Cowen and Company, LLC, or Cowen, through which the Company may offer and sell shares of its common stock having an aggregate offering of up to $100.0 million from time to time through Cowen, acting as the Company's sales agent. The issuance and sale of these shares by us pursuant to the Sales Agreement are deemed an "at-the-market" offering under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Under the Sales Agreement, the Company has agreed to pay Cowen a commission of up to 3% of the gross proceeds of any sales made pursuant to the Sales Agreement. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, the Company received net proceeds of $31.8 million, after deducting commissions and expenses payable by the Company, from the sale of 2,180,477 shares of common stock pursuant to the Sales Agreement. As of September 30, 2016, the Company had an aggregate of $67.2 million available to be offered under the Sales Agreement, subject to the continued effectiveness of its current shelf registration statement or an effective replacement shelf registration statement. 9. Equity Incentive Plans 2015 Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2015 Plan, which became effective upon the IPO and provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and other forms of stock awards to its employees, directors and consultants. The Company's 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2009 Plan, terminated on the date the 2015 Plan was adopted. Options granted or shares issued under the 2009 Plan that were outstanding on the date the 2015 Plan became effective will remain subject to the terms of the 2009 Plan. The 2015 Plan is administered by the board of directors or a committee appointed by the board of directors, which determines the types of awards to be granted, including the number of shares subject to the awards, the exercise price and the vesting schedule. The exercise price of incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options will be no less than 100% of the fair value per share of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. If an individual owns capital stock representing more than 10% of the voting shares, the price of each share will be at least 110% of the fair value on the date of grant. Options expire after 10 years (five years for stockholders owning greater than 10% of the voting stock). The number of shares of common stock initially reserved for issuance under the 2015 Plan was 6,134,292 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan to the lower of (i) 4% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the board of directors. On January 1, 2016 the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan increased by 2,543,513. The Company had 5,570,694 shares available for future grant under the 2015 Plan as of September 30, 2016. 16 Stock Options The following table summarizes stock option activity for the nine months ended September 30, 2016: (1) This excludes 50,958 canceled options for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 initially granted from the legacy stock option plans. As these plans have been terminated, any options canceled are not added back to the existing option plan pool. The aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price of the options and the closing price of the Company's common stock. The Company's closing stock price as reported on the NASDAQ as of September 30, 2016 was $12.43. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 was $3.2 million and $7.1 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2016, the total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested options, net of estimated forfeitures, was $32.6 million, which the Company expects to recognize over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.4 years. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) In September 2016, the Company's board of directors authorized the issuance of Restricted Stock Units, or RSUs, under the 2015 Plan and adopted a form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, or the RSU Agreement, which is intended to serve as a standard form agreement for restricted stock unit grants issued to employees, executive officers, directors and consultants. In September 2016, the Company granted RSU equity awards to certain of its employees in accordance with the terms of the RSU Agreement. The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity for the nine months ended September 30, 2016: The fair value of RSUs is determined on the date of grant based on the market price of the Company's common stock on that date. As of September30, 2016, there was $9.0 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to RSUs to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 4.0 years. 17 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or 2015 ESPP, which became effective upon the IPO. The 2015 ESPP is intended to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Code, and is administered by the Company's board of directors and the Compensation Committee of the board of directors. The number of shares of common stock initially reserved for issuance under the 2015 ESPP was 720,000 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 ESPP to the lower of (i) 1% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the board of directors. On January 1, 2016 the shares issuable under the 2015 ESPP increased by 635,878. The Company had 1,259,761 shares available for future issuance under the 2015 ESPP as of September 30, 2016. Under the Aduro Biotech, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") employees purchased 56,544 shares for $0.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Stock-based Compensation Expense Total stock-based compensation expense recognized was as follows (in thousands): In determining the fair value of the stock-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of stock option awards granted to employees was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions for the nine months ended September 30, 2016: 10. Income Taxes Income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $11.7 million and zero, respectively, and $16.4 million and zero for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax expense recorded in the three months ended September 30, 2016 primarily related to current and deferred income taxes. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740 , Accounting for Income Taxes . As of September 30, 2016 and 2015, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $1.7 million and $1.6 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2016 and 2015, $0.6 million and zero of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce the Company's annual effective tax rate because the majority of benefits are in the form of deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been recorded. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. As of September 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company accrued no interest and penalties in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. There were no interest and penalties included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. The Company does not expect the amount of existing unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly within the next 12 months. The Company files income tax returns in the United States and the Netherlands. The federal and state income tax returns are open under the statute of limitations subject to tax examinations for the tax years ended December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2015. To the extent the Company has tax attribute carryforwards, the tax years in which the attribute was generated may still be adjusted upon examination by the IRS or state tax authorities to the extent utilized in a future period. For the Netherlands, the tax administration can impose an additional assessment within five years from the year in which the tax debt originated. 18 11. Net Income (Loss) per Common Share Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share gives effect to dilutive stock options and warrants. The Company uses the treasury-stock method to compute diluted earnings per share with respect to its stock options and warrants. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share (in thousands except share and per share amounts): The following securities were excluded from diluted net income (loss) per common share because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive: 19 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2015, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-Looking Statements This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as "believe," "will," "may," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "should," "plan," "expect," "predict," "could," "potentially" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition, or state other "forward-looking" information. These statements relate to our future plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report in Part II, Item 1A - "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. We caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Overview We are an immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases. Our technology platforms, which are designed to harness the body's natural immune system, are being investigated in cancer indications and have the potential to expand into autoimmune and infectious diseases. Immuno-oncology is an emerging field of cancer therapy that aims to activate the immune system in the tumor microenvironment to create and enhance anti-tumor immune responses, as well as to overcome the immuno-suppressive mechanisms that cancer cells have developed against the immune system. Recent developments in the field of immuno-oncology, including checkpoint inhibitors-therapies that have mechanisms focused on unmasking hidden cancer cells-have shown the potential to provide efficacy and extended survival, even in cancers where conventional therapies, such as surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, have failed. The immunotherapy field is rapidly advancing with new immuno-oncology combinations that focus on strengthening therapeutic efficacy in a wide range of cancers. We intend to pursue a broad strategy of combining our technology platforms with conventional and novel immuno-oncology therapies, based on their mechanisms of action, safety profiles and versatility. Our LADD (Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted) technology platform is based on proprietary attenuated strains of Listeria that have been engineered to express tumor-associated antigens to induce specific and targeted immune responses. One of our LADD product candidates, CRS-207, expresses the antigen mesothelin and is currently being developed in unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma, ovarian cancer, and pancreatic cancer. A second LADD agent is being evaluated in glioblastoma. We have also developed two LADD product candidates in collaboration with Janssen Biotech, Inc., or Janssen, targeting prostate and lung cancers. Our STING Pathway Activator platform is designed to activate the intracellular Stimulator of Interferon Genes, or STING receptor, resulting in a potent tumor-specific immune response. Product candidates being developed through this platform to stimulate anti-tumor immunity are being advanced under our worldwide collaboration with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis. The lead STING product candidate, ADU-S100, has entered into Phase 1 clinical testing in patients with cutaneously accessible metastatic solid tumors or lymphomas. Our B-select monoclonal antibody platform includes a number of immune modulating assets in research and preclinical development. Agents from this platform, such as our anti-APRIL, anti-CTLA4 and anti-PD1, have the potential to yield novel immunotherapy combinations. We have intellectual property protection on our LADD, STING and B-select technology platforms and each of our product candidates, some of which we believe can be maintained into the 2030s. 20 Since commencing our operations, our efforts have been focused on research, developm ent and the advancement of our product candidates into clinical trials. As a result we have incurred significant losses. We have funded our operations primarily through the sale of common stock and convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible p romissory notes, licensing agreements with pharmaceutical partners and revenue from government grants. We incurred net loss of $35.1 million and a net income of $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and a net lo ss of $61.6 million and $42.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. As of September 30, 2016, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $387.1 million and our accumulated deficit was $1 62.4 million. Components of Operating Results Revenue We have not generated any revenue from product sales. Our revenue to date has been primarily derived from two research and license agreements we entered into with Janssen, a collaboration and license agreement we entered into with Novartis in March 2015, as well as research and development grants from the U.S. government. We recognize revenue from upfront payments under our Janssen and Novartis agreements ratably over the term of our estimated period of performance under the agreement. In addition to receiving upfront payments, we may also be entitled to milestone and other contingent payments upon achieving predefined objectives. Revenue from milestones, if they are nonrefundable and deemed substantive, are recognized upon successful accomplishment of the milestones. To the extent that non-substantive milestones are achieved and we have remaining performance obligations, milestones are deferred and recognized as revenue over the estimated remaining period of performance. We recognize revenue related to research and development grants when the related research expenses are incurred and our specific performance obligations under the terms of the respective contracts are satisfied. We expect that any revenue we generate from our research and license agreements with Janssen and Novartis, government research and development grants, and any future collaboration partners will fluctuate from year to year as a result of the timing and amount of milestones and other payments. Research and Development Expenses The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our product candidates, as well as the development of product candidates pursuant to our research and license agreement with Janssen. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Clinical trial costs, contract manufacturing and other development costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we advance our product candidates into and through clinical trials and pursue regulatory approval of our product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain regulatory approval is costly and time-consuming. The actual probability of success for our product candidates and technology platforms may be affected by a variety of factors including: the quality of our product candidates, early clinical data, investment in our clinical program, competition, manufacturing capability and commercial viability. We may never succeed in achieving regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our product candidates. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel costs, expenses for outside professional services and other allocated expenses. Personnel costs consist of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation. Outside professional services consist of legal, accounting and audit services, insurance expenses, investor relations activities, administrative services and other consulting fees. Allocated expenses consist of rent expense related to our office and research and development facility. Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants Loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants consists of losses from the remeasurement of the fair value of our liabilities related to our convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants. 21 Prior to the completion of our IPO in April 2015, our convertible preferred stock warrants were exercisable into shares that were contingently redeemable. Our common stock warrants were subject to performance conditions that could have resulted in the issuance of a variable number of shares. As such, these warrants were classified as liabilitie s in the condensed consolidated balance sheets at their estimated fair values, and we recorded the change in the estimated fair values each reporting period as loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants. We continued to record adjustments to the est imated fair values of the convertible preferred stock warrants until they converted into common stock warrants upon the closing of the IPO. We also continued to record adjustments to the estimated fair value of our common stock warrants until the performan ce conditions lapsed in April 2015, at which time they were reclassified to additional paid-in capital. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest income from our cash equivalents and marketable securities. Other (Loss) Income, Net Other (loss) income, net, consists of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have statutory tax rates different from those in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rates will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to U.S. income, the availability of research and development tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from the examination of our tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. Should actual events or results differ from our current expectations, charges or credits to our income tax expense may become necessary. 22 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $3.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, a decrease of $14.9 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease was primarily due to the recognition of Janssen upfront license payments in 2015. There was no grant revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016, a decrease of $0.4 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to grants expiring in 2015. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015: Research and development expenses were $19.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $7.2 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was attributed to a $5.9 million increase in licensing fees primarily related to our STING Activator technology, a $3.6 million increase in personnel-related costs including stock-based compensation and a $1.2 million increase in facility costs due to the Company relocating to its new office and laboratory facility during the quarter. This was partially offset by a $4.8 million decrease in contract manufacturing primarily related to GVAX Pancreas manufacturing activities and a $1.0 million decrease in clinical development expenses following completion of the ECLIPSE clinical trial. 23 General and Administrative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015: General and administrative expenses were $8.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $1.6 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation $0.8 million. Additionally, a $0.9 million increase in facility costs was due to the Company relocating to its new office and laboratory facility during the quarter. Interest Income Interest income was $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $0.4 million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. Interest income earned in 2016 relates to interest earned from our funds invested in cash equivalents and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $11.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, primarily related to current and deferred federal income taxes. There was no provision for income taxes in the third quarter of 2015. Comparison of the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 24 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $46.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $9.1 million compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to the receipt of $35.0 million upon achievement of a milestone under our agreement with Novartis in the second quarter of 2016. This increase was partially offset by upfront license revenue from Janssen collaborations in 2015. Grant revenue was $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, a decrease of $0.9 million compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to most grants expiring in 2015. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015: Research and development expenses were $66.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $30.9 million compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was primarily attributed to a $9.7 million increase in contract manufacturing expense primarily for GVAX Pancreas manufacturing activities during the first half of 2016 and manufacturing activities for our antibody programs. The increase was also attributable to a $8.5 million increase in personnel-related costs including stock-based compensation, a $3.8 million increase in contract research expense for sponsored research grants, a $3.0 million increase in outside professional services primarily related to higher utilization of consultants to support our clinical programs and collaborations and a $2.9 million increase in licensing fees primarily related to our STING Activator technology. General and Administrative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015: General and administrative expenses were $26.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $7.3 million compared to the nine months ended Septembers 30, 2015. The increase was primarily due to personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation of $3.3 million, $2.0 million related to the expansion of our facilities and $1.1 million in outside professional services including legal, audit and tax services. 25 Loss from Remeasurement of Fair Value of Warrants There was no loss from remeasurement of fair value of warrants for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to $26.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. In April 2015, all of the convertible preferred stock warrants and common stock warrants were no longer subject to remeasurement due to the IPO or expiration of the performance condition and the total fair value was expensed on the statement of operations and reclassified to additional paid in capital. Interest Income Interest income was $1.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $1.4 million compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The interest income earned in 2016 relates to interest earned from our funds invested in cash equivalents and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $16.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, primarily related to current and deferred federal income taxes. There was no provision for income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2016, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $387.1 million. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and anticipated funding from our collaboration agreements will be sufficient to fund our planned operations at least through 2018. We have based our cash sufficiency estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, we could consume our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect or in excess of amounts that we currently expect, which could adversely affect our development activities. Our primary uses of capital are, and we expect will continue to be, compensation and related expenses, clinical development costs including manufacturing and other research and development services, laboratory and related supplies and legal and other professional services. Cash used to fund operating expenses is impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses, as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for the development, manufacturing and potential commercialization of our product candidates. We plan to continue to fund our operations and capital funding needs through equity and/or debt financing and potential milestones from existing collaboration agreements. We may also consider entering into additional collaboration arrangements or selectively partnering for clinical development and commercialization. In addition, we expect to continue to opportunistically seek access to the equity capital markets to support our development efforts and operations. The sale of additional equity would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments governing such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or partnering arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some of our rights to our technologies or rights to market and sell our products in certain geographies, grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, or issue equity that may be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. If we are not able to secure adequate additional funding, we may be forced to make reductions in spending, extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible and/or suspend or curtail planned programs. Any of these actions could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: 26 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $61.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $157.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the upfront payment of $200.0 million received from Novartis in the first half of 2015. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $29.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to $269.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the purchase of marketable securities in the third quarter of 2015. This was partially offset by an increase in purchased property and equipment primarily related to leasehold improvements for our new facility in 2016. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $37.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, compared to $173.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. The decrease was primarily related to $174.0 million in net proceeds from the issuance of our convertible preferred stock and the IPO and private placement during the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to net cash proceeds of $31.8 million from the sale of our common stock through the Sales Agreement with Cowen. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we exercised our option to lease additional space under our new lease agreement for office/laboratory space in Berkeley, California. Refer to Note 7 of the Condensed Consolidated Notes to the Financial Statements for more information. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of September 30, 2016:Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 ADURO BIOTECH, INC. Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Organization and Nature of Business Aduro Biotech, Inc., and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, or the Company, is an immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases, including cancer. The Company is located in Berkeley, California and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Aduro Biotech Holdings, Europe B.V., or Aduro Biotech Europe, is based in the Netherlands. The Company operates in one business segment. The Company believes its three technology platforms are uniquely positioned to recruit and direct the immune system by activating cancer-fighting immune cells and inhibiting immune suppressive cells known to allow tumor growth. Product candidates from the Company's LADD, or Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted Listeria monocytogenes , STING Pathway Activator, and B-select monoclonal antibody platforms are designed to stimulate and/or regulate innate and adaptive immune responses, either as single agents or in combination with conventional therapies (chemotherapy and radiation) as well as other novel immunotherapies. The Company's diverse technology platforms have led to a strong pipeline of clinical and preclinical candidates, which are being developed for a number of cancer indications. Additionally, Aduro's platforms have the potential to generate product candidates that address other therapeutic areas, such as autoimmune and infectious diseases. The Company is also collaborating with leading global pharmaceutical companies to expand its products and technology platforms. 2. Basis of Presentation, Use of Estimates and Recent Accounting Pronouncements Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and follow the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for interim reporting. As permitted under those rules, certain footnotes or other financial information that are normally required by U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted, and accordingly the balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements at that date but does not include all of the information required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. These financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as our annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) that are necessary for a fair presentation of our financial information. The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2017 or for any other interim period or for any other future year. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and related financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2016 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Aduro Biotech, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenue and expenses in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, clinical trial accruals, contingent consideration, income taxes and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other market-specific and relevant assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Auditing Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods and services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates 7 than under the currently effective guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the tr ansaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which reduce s the complexity when applying the guidance for identifying performance obligations and improves the operability and understandability of the license implementation guidance. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Custome rs (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, which amends the guidance on transition, collectability, noncash consideration and the presentation of sales and other similar taxes. The new standard permits adoption either by using (i) a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or (ii) a modified retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard recognized at the date of initial application and providing certai n additional disclosures. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company plans to adopt the new standar d effective January 1, 2018 and has not made the decision as to which adoption method it will utilize. The Company's final determination will depend on the significance of the impact of the new standard on the Company's financial results. The Company has c ompleted the initial evaluation of the adoption of the new standard. This included the determination of whether the counterparty in its existing collaboration agreements met the definition of a customer and whether such agreements would be within the scope of the new standard. As a result, certain of the Company's collaboration agreements are in scope and the Company is currently determining the impact that these agreements may have on its financial results. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments--Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, which amends the guidance in U.S. GAAP on the classification and measurement of financial instruments. Changes to the current guidance primarily affects the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, the ASU clarifies guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and upon adoption, an entity should apply the amendments by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet at the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. Early adoption is not permitted except for the provision to record fair value changes for financial liabilities under the fair value option resulting from instrument-specific credit risk in other comprehensive income. The Company has evaluated the impact of this guidance and has concluded that adoption of the standard will not have a material impact onits consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and, (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. The new standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires modified retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326). The standard changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that are not measured at fair value through net income. Financial assets measured at amortized cost will be presented at the net amount expected to be collected by using an allowance for credit losses. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for all periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 identifies how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the Statement of Cash Flows. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The standard should be applied retrospectively and early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company has evaluated the impact of this guidance and has concluded that the adoption of the standard will not have a material impact onits Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. ASU 2016-18 requires that the statement of cash flows explains the change during the period in the total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those years. This standard should be applied retrospectively and early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company plans to adopt this standard on January 1, 2018 utilizing the required retrospective transition method. The adoption of ASU 2016-18 on January 1, 2018 will change the presentation and classification of restricted cash in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 8 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718) : Scope of Modification Accounting. ASU 2017-09 provides clarity and reduces the complexity of applying the guidance in Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. This standard is ef fective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact that the standard will have on its consolidated financial statements. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. Formerly, these excess tax benefits were recognized in additional paid-in capital and tax deficiencies (to the extent there were previous tax benefits) were recognized as an offset to accumulated excess tax benefits. If no previous tax benefit existed, the deficiencies were recognized in the income statement as an increase to income tax expense. The changes require all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies related to share-based payments be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. Gross excess tax benefits in the cash flow statement have also changed from the prior presentation as a financing activity to being classified as an operating activity. The excess tax benefits are no longer included in the assumed proceeds of the diluted EPS calculation, which results in stock-based awards being more dilutive. Lastly, the Company elected to continue to estimate forfeitures based on historical data and recognizes forfeiture compensation expense over the vesting period of the award. This standard is effective prospectively for annual reporting periods, and interim periods therein, beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company adopted this ASU on January 1, 2017 which resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits within the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations rather than paid-in capital of $1.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017. 3. Fair Value Measurements The carrying amounts of certain of the Company's financial instruments, including cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their fair values due to their short maturities. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the balance sheets, as well as assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis or disclosed at fair value, are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with inputs used to measure their fair values. The accounting guidance for fair value provides a framework for measuring fair value, and requires certain disclosures about how fair value is determined. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received upon the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The accounting guidance also establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value based upon whether such inputs are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect market assumptions made by the reporting entity. The three-level hierarchy for the inputs to valuation techniques is briefly summarized as follows: Level 1 -Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date; Level 2 -Inputs are observable, unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities, unadjusted quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the related assets or liabilities; and Level 3 -Unobservable inputs that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities that are supported by little or no market data. The Company's cash equivalents, which include money market funds, are classified as Level 1 because they are valued using quoted market prices. The Company's marketable securities consist of available-for-sale securities and are generally classified as Level 2 because their value is based on valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around the inputs to valuation, securities are classified as Level 3. Level 3 liabilities consist of the contingent consideration liability. 9 The following table sets forth the Company's financial instruments that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the fair value hierarchy (in thous ands): The acquisition-date fair value of the contingent consideration liability represents the future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of specified development milestones for a product candidate. The fair value of the contingent consideration is based on the Company's probability-weighted discounted cash flow assessment that considers probability and timing of future payments. The fair value measurement is based on significant Level 3 inputs such as anticipated timelines and probability of achieving development milestones. Changes in the fair value of the liability for contingent consideration, except for the impact of foreign currency, will be recognized as research and development expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations until settlement. The Company did not have any financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. There were no transfers between the fair value measurement category levels during any of the periods presented. The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in the fair value of the Company's Level 3 financial liabilities (in thousands): 10 The following tables summarize the estimated value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the gross unrealized holding gains and losses (in thousands): The amortized cost and estimated fair value of the Company's available-for-sale marketable securities by contractual maturity are summarized below as of June 30, 2017 (in thousands): 4. Balance Sheet Components Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (in thousands): 11 Depreciation and amortization expense was $833,000 and $382,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $1.7 million and $739,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities Accrued expenses and other liabilities consisted of the following (in thousands): 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill The gross carrying amount of goodwill was as follows (in thousands): Intangible assets The gross carrying amounts and net book value of our intangible assets were as follows (in thousands): Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. The license agreement is being amortized over a period of 20 years and the amortization expense is recorded in operating expenses. The increase in the gross carrying amount of intangible assets as of June 30, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 reflected a positive impact of foreign currency exchange which was primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro against the U.S. dollar. 12 Amortization expense was $136,000 and $140,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively and $268,000 and $277,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, re spectively. Based on finite-lived intangible assets recorded as of June 30, 2017, the estimated future amortization expense is as follows (in thousands): 6. Collaboration Agreements Novartis Agreement In March 2015, the Company entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, or Novartis, pursuant to which the Company is collaborating worldwide with Novartis regarding the development and potential commercialization of product candidates containing an agonist of the molecular target known as STING in the field of oncology, including immuno-oncology and cancer vaccines. Under this agreement, or the Novartis Agreement, the Company granted Novartis a co-exclusive license to develop such products worldwide, an exclusive license to commercialize such products outside the United States and a non-exclusive license to support the Company in commercializing such products in the United States if it requests such support. The collaboration is guided by a joint steering committee with each party having final decision making authority regarding specified areas of development or commercialization. Under the Novartis Agreement, the Company received an upfront payment of $200.0 million in April 2015. During the second quarter of 2016, the Company earned a $35.0 million development milestone upon initiation of a Phase 1 trial for the first STING product candidate, ADU-S100, and recognized the payment as revenue in the period. The Company is also eligible to receive up to an additional $215.0 million in development milestones and up to an additional $250.0 million in regulatory approval milestones. The Company is responsible for 38% of the joint development costs worldwide and Novartis is responsible for the remaining 62% of the joint development costs worldwide. The Company will also receive 50% of gross profits on sales of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in the United States and 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. For each of these profit share countries, each party will be responsible for its respective commercial sharing percentage of all joint commercialization costs incurred in that country. For all other countries where the Company is not sharing profits, Novartis will be responsible for all commercialization costs and will pay the Company a royalty in the mid-teens on all net sales of product sold by Novartis, its affiliates and sublicensees, with such percentage subject to reduction post patent and data exclusivity expiration and subject to reduction, capped at a specified percentage, for royalties payable to third party licensors. Novartis' royalty obligation will run on a country-by-country basis until the later of expiration of the last valid claim covering the product, expiration of data exclusivity for the product or 12 years after first commercial sale of the product in such country. With respect to the United States, specified European countries and/or Japan, the Company may elect for such region to either reduce by 50% or to eliminate in full the Company's development and commercialization cost sharing obligation. If the Company elects to reduce its cost sharing percentage by 50% in any such region, then its profit share in such region will also be reduced by 50%. If the Company elects to eliminate its development cost sharing obligation, then such region will be removed from the profit share, and instead Novartis will owe the Company royalties on any net sales of product for such region, as described above. The Company recognizes revenue from collaboration, license or research arrangements when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. The Company has determined that the license does not have stand-alone value separable from the co-development services to be performed under the agreement, with the Company participating in the research and development services. As a result, the Company recognizes revenue from the $200.0 million upfront fee received on a straight-line basis over its estimated performance period of 13.5 years, commencing in July 2015, the date of the Joint Steering Committee's approval of the research and development plan. Changes in the estimated period of performance will be accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate. The Company will recognize substantive milestone payments in their entirety in the period in which the milestone is achieved. Non-substantive milestone payments 13 will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the remaining performance period. Costs associated with co-development activities performed under the agreement are included in research and development expenses in the accompanying condensed consolid ated statements of operations. Reimbursement of research and development costs by Novartis is included in collaboration and license revenue. The Company will recognize revenue from the sale of any products commercialized pursuant to this collaboration in t he United States, will retain 50% of the gross profits from such sales, and will pay the remaining 50% of the gross profits to Novartis. The Company will receive from Novartis 45% of gross profits for specified European countries and Japan. Profit sharing payments made to or received from Novartis are aggregated by product by territory and are reported as expenses or revenues, as applicable. For the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company recognized $3.8 million and $3.7 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company recognized $7.5 million and $7.4 million, respectively, in revenue from its collaboration with Novartis primarily related to amortization of the upfront fee. The remaining balance of the upfront fees of $170.4 million is included in deferred revenue at June 30, 2017. Janssen ADU-214 Agreement In November 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement, or the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, with Janssen Biotech Inc., or Janssen, a wholly owned subsidiary of Johnson &amp; Johnson Development Corporation, to develop a drug for the treatment of lung cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-214 for any and all uses. Janssen has agreed not to administer or cause to be administered ADU-214 in humans in clinical trials for the treatment of pancreatic cancer or mesothelioma. The Company was responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until investigational new drug application, or IND, approval which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2015. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement through June 30, 2017, the Company received an upfront license fee of $30.0 million and substantive and non-substantive milestone payments of $21.0 million upon completion of various development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-214 Agreement, the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $766.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on any net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from high-single digits to low teens based on the aggregate annual net sales of licensed products worldwide and based on the country of sale. The upfront license fee of $30.0 million was recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreement through October 2015. In addition, the Company recognized milestone payments of $21.0 million in 2015 as all performance obligations were achieved. Janssen ADU-741 and GVAX Prostate Agreements In May 2014, the Company entered into a Research and License Agreement, or the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, and a GVAX Prostate License Agreement, or Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, with Janssen to collaborate on the development of a drug for the treatment of prostate cancer. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive, worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing ADU-741 for any and all uses. The Company was responsible for certain research and development activities from the effective date of the agreement until IND approval which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2015. Since the inception of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement through June 30, 2017, the Company received an upfront payment of $12.0 million and substantive and non-substantive milestone payments of $10.0 million upon completion of certain development activities. Under the terms of the Janssen ADU-741 Agreement, the Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments up to a total of $343.0 million composed of development milestones through completion of all Phase 3 clinical trials, as well as regulatory and commercial milestones. The contingent payments are triggered upon the activities expected to be undertaken by Janssen. The Company is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of licensed products by Janssen, its affiliates and sublicensees at a rate ranging from mid-single digits to low teens based on aggregate annual net sales and based on the country of sale. Under the Janssen GVAX Prostate Agreement, the Company granted Janssen an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop, manufacture, use, sell and otherwise exploit products containing GVAX Prostate for any and all uses. The Company received an upfront payment of $500,000 in May 2014 and is eligible to receive an additional $2.0 million on the achievement of a specified commercial milestone. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the high single digits based on net sales of the product. 14 The upfront fees received totaling $12.5 mi llion were recognized on a straight-line basis from the effective date of the agreements through October 2015. In addition, the Company recognized milestone payments of $10.0 million in 2015 as all performance obligations were achieved. Merck License Agreement In connection with the acquisition of Aduro Biotech Europe in October 2015, the Company became party to an agreement with Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme Corp., or Merck. The agreement sets forth the parties' respective obligations for development, commercialization, regulatory and manufacturing and supply activities for antibody product candidates. The Company identified the following performance deliverables under the agreement: 1) the license, 2) the obligation to provide research activities and 3) the obligation to participate on a Joint Research Committee. The Company is eligible to receive future contingent payments, including up to $310.0 million in potential development milestone payments, and up to $135.0 million in commercial and net sales milestones for a product candidate. In addition, the Company is eligible to receive royalties in the mid-single digits to low teens based on net sales of the product. The Company considered the provisions of the multiple-element arrangement guidance in determining how to recognize the total consideration of the agreement. The Company determined that none of the deliverables have standalone value; all of these obligations will be delivered throughout the estimated period of performance and therefore are accounted for as a single unit of accounting. The Company determined that all of the future contingent payments meet the definition of a milestone. Accordingly, revenue for the achievement of these milestones will be recognized in the period when the milestone is achieved and collectability is reasonably assured . The Company recognized $2.0 million in revenue from the achievement of a milestone during the quarter ended June 30, 2017. Genmab Agreement In February 2015, Aduro Biotech Europe entered into a co-development and commercialization agreement with Genmab to evaluate five DuoBody product candidates targeting immune checkpoints. Genmab and Aduro Biotech Europe will contribute panels of antibodies for the creation of bispecific antibody products using Genmab's DuoBody platform. If the companies jointly select a product candidate for clinical development, development costs will be shared equally, with each party retaining a 50% share of the product rights. If one of the companies decides not to move a therapeutic candidate forward, the other company is entitled to continue developing the product at predefined licensing terms. The agreement also includes terms which allow the parties to opt out of joint development at key points in each product's clinical development. 7. Commitments and Contingencies Leases The Company moved into its new corporate office and laboratory facility located in Berkeley, California in August, 2016. The Company's offices are leased pursuant to an Office/Laboratory Lease that was entered into in September 2015, or the Heinz Lease. The Company began incurring rent expense when the landlord delivered possession of the facility to the Company in March 2016. Initially, the Heinz Lease was for approximately 56,000 square feet with an option for the Company to lease the remainder of the space within the facility. During the second quarter of 2016, the Company amended the lease to include approximately 7,000 additional square feet and on June 30, 2016 the Company exercised its option for approximately 41,000 additional square feet, representing the remaining space within the facility. The Heinz Lease had an initial term of twelve years, which was extended to approximately thirteen and a half years as a result of the option exercised on June 30, 2016. The Company has the right to further extend the Heinz Lease term for up to two renewal terms of five years each, provided that the rental rate would be subject to market adjustment at the beginning of each renewal term. The Company continues to lease its former office and research and development facility in Berkeley, California, under a non-cancelable operating lease, or the Bancroft Lease. In February 2015, the Company amended the Bancroft Lease agreement to increase the total square footage to approximately 25,000 square feet and extended the term of the Bancroft Lease to expire on December 31, 2018. The Bancroft Lease also contains an option to extend the lease for an additional two years. The Company has transitioned the entirety of its Berkeley operations to its Heinz facility in 2016. As of June 30, 2017 the entire facility under the Bancroft Lease has been subleased. 15 During 2016, the Company established a letter of credit with Bank of America Merrill Lynch as security for the Heinz Lease in the amount of $0.5 million. The letter of credit is collateralized by a certificate of deposit for $0.5 million which has been included in restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016. The Company also has office and laboratory space in Oss, the Netherlands, for employees of Aduro Biotech Europe. The term of the Oss lease is through December 2017, with a one-year renewal option. Rent expense was $1.6 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $2.9 million and $1.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Under the terms of the lease agreements, the Company is also responsible for certain insurance, property tax and maintenance expenses. Future minimum payments under the Company's office leases at June 30, 2017 are as follows (in thousands): Indemnification In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into agreements that may include indemnification provisions. Pursuant to such agreements, the Company may indemnify, hold harmless and defend an indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party. Some of the provisions will limit losses to those arising from third party actions. In some cases, the indemnification will continue after the termination of the agreement. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make under these provisions is not determinable. The Company has never incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification provisions. The Company has also entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and officers that may require the Company to indemnify its directors and officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. The Company currently has directors' and officers' insurance. Legal The Company is not party to any material legal proceedings at this time. From time to time, the Company may become involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Other Commitments The Company has various manufacturing, clinical, research and other contracts with vendors in the conduct of the normal course of its business. All contracts are terminable, with varying provisions regarding termination. If a contract with a specific vendor were to be terminated, generally the Company would only be obligated for the products or services that the Company had received at the time the termination became effective as well as non-cancelable and non-refundable obligations, including those incurred by the vendor for products or services before the termination became effective, and in some cases a termination fee. In the case of terminating a clinical trial agreement at a particular site, the Company may also be obligated to provide continued support for appropriate treatment for clinical trial subjects at that site until or after completion or termination. 8. Stockholders' Equity At-the-Market Sales Agreement In May 2016, the Company entered into an "at-the-market" sales agreement, or the 2016 Sales Agreement, with Cowen and Company, LLC, or Cowen, through which the Company may offer and sell shares of its common stock having an aggregate offering of up to $100.0 million from time to time through Cowen, acting as the Company's sales agent. The issuance and sale of these shares by the Company pursuant to the 2016 Sales Agreement are deemed an "at-the-market" offering under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Under the 2016 Sales Agreement, the Company has agreed to pay Cowen a commission of up to 3% of the gross proceeds of any sales made pursuant to the Sales Agreement. During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company received net proceeds 16 of $60.5 million after deducting commissions a nd expenses payable by the Company, from the sale of 5,823,789 shares of common stock pursuant to the 2016 Sales Agreement. Since the inception of the 2016 Sales Agreement through June 30, 2017, the Company has sold a total of 8,350,018 shares and received net total proceeds of $97.3 million. As of June 30, 2017 there were no amounts remaining for future sales under the Sales Agreement. 9. Equity Incentive Plans 2015 Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2015 Plan, which became effective upon the Initial Public Offering ("IPO") and provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, and other forms of stock awards to its employees, directors and consultants. The Company's 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2009 Plan, terminated on the date the 2015 Plan was adopted. Options granted or shares issued under the 2009 Plan that were outstanding on the date the 2015 Plan became effective will remain subject to the terms of the 2009 Plan. The 2015 Plan is administered by the board of directors or a committee appointed by the board of directors, which determines the types of awards to be granted, including the number of shares subject to the awards, the exercise price and the vesting schedule. The exercise price of incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options will be no less than 100% of the fair value per share of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. If an individual owns capital stock representing more than 10% of the voting shares, the price of each share will be at least 110% of the fair value on the date of grant. Options expire after 10 years (five years for stockholders owning greater than 10% of the voting stock). The number of shares of common stock initially reserved for issuance under the 2015 Plan was 6,134,292 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan to the lower of (i) 4% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the board of directors. On January 1, 2017 the shares issuable under the 2015 Plan increased by 2,716,729. The Company had 6,826,585 shares available for future grant under the 2015 Plan as of June 30, 2017. 2009 Plan The Company's 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2009 Plan, terminated on the date the 2015 Plan was adopted. Options granted or shares issued under the 2009 Plan that were outstanding on the date the 2015 Plan became effective will remain subject to the terms of the 2009 Plan. Prior to the 2009 Plan termination, the number of options available for grant was increased by 360,000 shares. At June 30, 2017, 6,649,962 options under the 2009 Plan remained outstanding. Stock Options The following table summarizes stock option activity for the six months ended June 30, 2017: (1) This excludes 10,408 canceled options for the six months ended June 30, 2017 initially granted from the legacy stock option plans. As these plans have been terminated, any options canceled are not added back to the existing option plan pool. 17 The aggregate intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price of the options and the closing price of the Company's common stock. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 was $4.1 million and $6.3 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2017, the total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested options, net of estimated forfeitures, was $31.7 million, which the Company expects to recognize over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.3 years. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) In September 2016, the Company's board of directors authorized the issuance of Restricted Stock Units, or RSUs, under the 2015 Plan and adopted a form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, or the RSU Agreement, which is intended to serve as a standard form agreement for restricted stock unit grants issued to employees, executive officers, directors and consultants. The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity for the six months ended June 30, 2017: The fair value of RSUs is determined on the date of grant based on the market price of the Company's common stock on that date. As of June30, 2017, there was $7.8 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to RSUs to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.3 years. Stock-based Compensation Expense Total stock-based compensation expense recognized was as follows (in thousands): In determining the fair value of the stock-based awards, the Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of stock option awards granted to employees was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: 18 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In March 2015, the Company's board of directors adopted and in April 2015 the Company's stockholders approved the 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or 2015 ESPP, which became effective upon the IPO. The 2015 ESPP is intended to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Code, and is administered by the Company's board of directors and the Compensation Committee of the board of directors. The number of shares of common stock initially reserved for issuance under the 2015 ESPP was 720,000 shares with an automatic annual increase to the shares issuable under the 2015 ESPP to the lower of (i) 1% of the total number of shares of common stock outstanding on December 31 of the preceding calendar year, or (ii) a lower number determined by the board of directors. On January 1, 2017 the shares issuable under the 2015 ESPP increased by 679,182. The Company had 1,838,166 shares available for future issuance under the 2015 ESPP as of June 30, 2017. Under the Aduro Biotech, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") employees purchased 58,385 shares for $0.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2017. 10. Income Taxes Income tax (benefit)/expense for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 was approximately $(3.8) million and $1.5 million, respectively, and $(6.5) million and $4.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The income tax benefit recorded for the first half of 2017 primarily related to the current benefit of federal income taxes paid in 2016. The income tax expense recorded in 2016, primarily related to federal current and deferred income taxes. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740 , Accounting for Income Taxes . As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $2.8 million and $2.5 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, $1.1 million and $1.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would reduce the Company's annual effective tax rate because the majority of benefits are in the form of deferred tax assets for which a full valuation allowance has been recorded. The Company's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. As of June 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company accrued no interest and penalties in the statement of financial position. There were no interest and penalties included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. The Company does not expect the amount of existing unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly within the next 12 months. The Company files income tax returns in the United States and the Netherlands. The federal and state income tax returns are open under the statute of limitations subject to tax examinations for the tax years ended December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2016. To the extent the Company has tax attribute carryforwards, the tax years in which the attribute was generated may still be adjusted upon examination by the IRS or state tax authorities to the extent utilized in a future period. For the Netherlands, the tax administration can impose an additional assessment within five years from the year in which the tax debt originated. 11. Net Income/Loss per Common Share Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income (loss) per share gives effect to dilutive stock options and warrants. The Company uses the treasury-stock method to compute diluted earnings per share with respect to its stock options and warrants. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share (in thousands except share and per share amounts): 19 Potentially dilutive securities tha t were not included in the diluted per common share calculations because they would be anti-dilutive were as follows: 20 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part I, Item 1 of this report and with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2016, included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-Looking Statements This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as "believe," "will," "may," "estimate," "continue," "anticipate," "intend," "should," "plan," "expect," "predict," "could," "potentially" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition, or state other "forward-looking" information. These statements relate to our future plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report in Part II, Item 1A - "Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements are based on our management's beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. These statements, like all statements in this report, speak only as of their date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements in light of future developments. We caution investors that our business and financial performance are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties. Overview We are an immunotherapy company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of therapies that transform the treatment of challenging diseases, including cancer. We believe our three technology platforms are uniquely positioned to recruit and direct the immune system by activating cancer-fighting immune cells and inhibiting immune suppressive cells known to allow tumor growth. Product candidates from our LADD, or Live, Attenuated, Double-Deleted Listeria monocytogenes , STING Pathway Activator, and B-select monoclonal antibody platforms are designed to stimulate and/or regulate innate and adaptive immune responses, either as single agents or in combination with conventional therapies (i.e. chemotherapy and radiation) as well as other novel immunotherapies. Our diverse technology platforms have led to a strong pipeline of clinical and preclinical candidates, which are being developed for a number of cancer indications. Additionally, our platforms have the potential to generate product candidates that address other therapeutic areas, such as autoimmune and infectious diseases. Immuno-oncology is an emerging field of cancer therapy that aims to activate the immune system in the tumor microenvironment to create and enhance anti-tumor immune responses, as well as to overcome the immuno-suppressive mechanisms that cancer cells have developed against the immune system. Recent developments in the field of immuno-oncology, including checkpoint inhibitors-therapies which work to remove suppression mechanisms that prevent an immune response against cancer cells-have shown the potential to provide efficacy and extended survival, even in cancers where conventional therapies, such as surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, have failed. The immunotherapy field is rapidly advancing with new immuno-oncology combinations that focus on strengthening therapeutic efficacy in a wide range of cancers. We intend to pursue a broad strategy of combining our technology platforms with conventional and novel immuno-oncology therapies, based on their mechanisms of action, safety profiles and versatility. Our LADD technology platform is based on proprietary attenuated strains of Listeria that have been engineered to express tumor-associated antigens to induce specific and targeted immune responses. This platform is being developed as a treatment for multiple indications, including mesothelioma, ovarian, gastric, lung and prostate cancers. Additionally, a personalized form of LADD, or pLADD, is being developed utilizing tumor neoantigens that are specific to an individual patient's tumor. Our STING Pathway Activator platform is designed to activate the intracellular Stimulator of Interferon Genes, or STING receptor, resulting in a potent tumor-specific immune response. ADU-S100 is the first STING Pathway Activator compound to enter the clinic and is currently being evaluated in a Phase 1 study in patients with cutaneously accessible metastatic solid tumors or lymphomas. Our B-select monoclonal antibody platform includes a proprietary ultra-selective functional screening process to identify antibodies with unique binding properties against a broad range of targets that can modulate the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system. The B-select platform has delivered a number of immune modulating assets currently in research and preclinical development. 21 We are collaborating with leading global pharmaceutical companies to expand our products and technology platforms. We have intellectual property protection on our LADD, STING and B-select technology platforms and each of our product candidates, some of which we believe can be maintained into the 2030s. Since commencing our operations, our efforts have been focused on research, development and the advancement of our product candidates into clinical trials. As a result we have incurred significant losses . We have funded our operations primarily through the sale of common stock and convertible preferred stock, the issuance of convertible promissory notes, licensing agreements with pharmaceutical partners and revenue from government grants. We incurred a net loss of $19.4 million and net income of $2.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and a net loss of $41.2 million and $26.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As of June 30, 2017, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $377.2 million and our accumulated deficit was $233.2 million. Components of Operating Results Revenue We have not generated any revenue from product sales. Our revenue to date has been primarily derived from research and license agreements we entered into with Janssen, a collaboration and license agreement with Novartis, as well as research and development grants from the U.S. government. We recognize revenue from upfront payments under our Janssen and Novartis agreements ratably over the term of our estimated period of performance under the agreement. In addition to receiving upfront payments, we may also be entitled to milestone and other contingent payments upon achieving predefined objectives. Revenue from milestones, if they are nonrefundable and deemed substantive, are recognized upon successful accomplishment of the milestones. To the extent that non-substantive milestones are achieved and we have remaining performance obligations, milestones are deferred and recognized as revenue over the estimated remaining period of performance. We recognize revenue related to research and development grants when the related research expenses are incurred and our specific performance obligations under the terms of the respective contracts are satisfied. We expect that any revenue we generate from our research and license agreements with Janssen and Novartis, government research and development grants, and any future collaboration partners will fluctuate from year to year as a result of the timing and amount of milestones and other payments. Research and Development Expenses The largest component of our total operating expenses has historically been our investment in research and development activities, including the clinical development of our product candidates. Research and development expenses represent costs incurred to conduct research, such as the discovery and development of our product candidates, as well as the development of product candidates pursuant to our research and license agreements with Janssen, Novartis and Merck. We recognize all research and development costs as they are incurred. Clinical trial costs, contract manufacturing and other development costs incurred by third parties are expensed as the contracted work is performed. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we advance our product candidates into and through clinical trials and pursue regulatory approval of our product candidates. The process of conducting the necessary clinical research to obtain regulatory approval is costly and time-consuming. The actual probability of success for our product candidates and technology platforms may be affected by a variety of factors including: the quality of our product candidates, early clinical data, investment in our clinical program, competition, manufacturing capability and commercial viability. We may never succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. As a result of the uncertainties discussed above, we are unable to determine the duration and completion costs of our research and development projects or when and to what extent we will generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our product candidates. 22 The following table summarizes our research and development costs by platform: Other research includes sponsored research grants, laboratory supplies and materials, and facility costs. Internal costs include personnel and stock compensation expenses as well as depreciation. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include personnel costs, expenses for outside professional services and other allocated expenses. Personnel costs consist of salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation. Outside professional services consist of legal, accounting and audit services, insurance expenses, investor relations activities, administrative services and other consulting fees. Allocated expenses consist of rent expense related to our office and research and development facility. Interest Income, Net Interest income, net consists of interest income from our cash equivalents and marketable securities. Other (Loss), Net Other (loss), net, primarily consists of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These foreign jurisdictions have statutory tax rates different from those in the United States. Accordingly, our effective tax rates will vary depending on the relative proportion of foreign to U.S. income, the availability of research and development tax credits, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from the examination of our tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. Should actual events or results differ from our current expectations, charges or credits to our income tax expense may become necessary. 23 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $5.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, a decrease of $33.1 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to the recognition of $35.0 million in connection with the achievement of a milestone under our agreement with Novartis in the second quarter of 2016 partially offset by the recognition of $2.0 million in connection with the achievement of a milestone under our agreement with Merck in the second quarter of 2017. Grant revenue was $41,000 for each of the three months ended June 30, 2017 and June 30, 2016. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: 24 Research and development expenses were $21.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, a decrease of $5.4million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. Contract manufacturing decreased by $9.2 million primari ly related to GVAX Pancreas manufacturing expense and clinical trials expense in pancreatic cancer incurred during the second quarter of 2016 partially offset by increased costs to manufacture our B-select antibodies in 2017.Contract research decreased by $1.8 million primarily related to sponsored research grants made to UC Berkeley in 2016. These expenses were partially offset by an increase of $2.9 million in research and development costs related to materials and supplies for our B-select antibodies. P ersonnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation, increased by $2.3 million due to increases in headcount, and facility related costs increased by $1.4 million relating to our relocation to a new office and laboratory facility in the third quarte r of 2016. General and Administrative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: General and administrative expenses were $8.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, a decrease of $0.5 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in outside professional services expenses of $0.8 million partially offset by an increase in facility costs of $0.2 million following our relocation to a new office and laboratory facility in the third quarter of 2016. Interest Income, net Interest income was $0.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017, an increase of $0.3 million compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. Interest income is earned from our funds invested in cash equivalents and marketable securities. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax benefit recorded for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was approximately $3.8 million, primarily due to the current benefit of federal income taxes paid in 2016. 25 Comparison of the Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 Revenue Collaboration and license revenue was $9.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, a decrease of $33.3 million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to the recognition of $35.0 million in connection with the achievement of a milestone under our agreement with Novartis in the second quarter of 2016 partially offset by the recognition of $2.0 million in connection with the achievement of a milestone under our agreement with Merck in the second quarter of 2017. Grant revenue was $41,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2017, a decrease of $47,000 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016, primarily due to most grants expiring in 2016. Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our research and development expenses incurred during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: 26 Research and development expenses were $42.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, a decrease of $5.8million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease was primarily attributed to a $15.2 million de crease in contract manufacturing and clinical development expenses related to GVAX Pancreas manufacturing activities in early 2016. Contract research decreased by $1.3 million primarily due to sponsored research grants made to UC Berkeley in 2016. Professi onal services decreased by $1.2 million primarily due to lower consulting services incurred in 2017. These expenses were partially offset by an increase of $4.4 million in research and development costs primarily related to materials and supplies for our B -select antibodies, $4.5 million in personnel-related costs including stock based compensation due to increases in headcount, and $3.1 million in facility related costs following our relocation to a new office and laboratory facility in the third quarter o f 2016. General and Administrative Expenses The following table summarizes our general and administrative expenses incurred during the six months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: General and administrative expenses were $16.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, a decrease of $1.2 million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to a $1.7 million decrease in outside professional services partially offset by higher facility costs of $0.5 million following our relocation to a new office and laboratory facility in the third quarter of 2016. Interest Income, net Interest income was $1.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, an increase of $0.5 million compared to the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase in interest income earned in 2017 is primarily due to the favorable interest rate environment. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax benefit recorded for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $6.5 million, primarily related to current and deferred federal income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $377.2 million. We believe that our available cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and anticipated funding from our collaboration agreements will be sufficient to fund our planned operations into 2020. We have based our cash sufficiency estimate on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, we could consume our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect or in excess of amounts that we currently expect, which could adversely affect our development activities. Our primary uses of capital are, and we expect will continue to be, compensation and related expenses, clinical development costs including manufacturing and other research and development services, laboratory and related supplies and legal and other professional services. Cash used to fund operating expenses is impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses, as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. We expect to incur substantial expenditures in the foreseeable future for the development, manufacturing and potential commercialization of our product candidates. We plan to continue to fund our operations and capital funding needs through equity and/or debt financing and potential milestones from existing collaboration agreements. We may also consider entering into additional collaboration arrangements or selectively partnering for clinical development and commercialization. In addition, we expect to continue to opportunistically seek access to the equity capital markets to support our development efforts and operations. The sale of additional equity would result in 27 additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of debt financing would result in debt service obligations and the instruments gove rning such debt could provide for operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration or partnering arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some of our rights to ou r technologies or rights to market and sell our products in certain geographies, grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, or issue equity that may be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. If we are not able to secure adequate additional funding, we may be forced to make reductions in spending, extend payment terms with suppliers, liquidate assets where possible and/or suspend or curtail planned programs. Any of these actions could harm our business, results of operations, financial condit ion and future prospects. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $44.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to net cash used in operating activities of $25.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase in net cash used in operating activities was primarily related to the collection of a $35 million milestone from Novartis that offset operating expenses to a greater extent during the six months ended June 30, 2016. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $91.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to net cash used by investing activities of $21.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The change was primarily due to the decrease in purchases of marketable securities in 2017 compared to 2016. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $61.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $3.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase was primarily related to $60.5 million in net cash proceeds from the sale of our common stock through the Sales Agreement with Cowen during the six months ended June 30, 2017. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the critical accounting policies disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. 28 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of June 30, 2017: