ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 1 ADVAXIS, INC. STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. F- 2 ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 3 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information Supplemental Schedule of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 4 ADVAXIS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS Advaxis, Inc. ("Advaxis" or the "Company") is a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary Lm-LLO cancer immunotherapies. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes ("Lm" or "Listeria") bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-LLO strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. Axalimogene filolisbac ("AXAL") is our lead Lm-LLO immunotherapy product candidate for the treatment of Human Papilloma Virus ("HPV") associated cancers. The Company completed a randomized Phase 2 study in 110 patients with recurrent cervical cancer that was shown to have a manageable safety profile, apparent improved survival and objective tumor responses. In addition, the Gynecologic Oncology Group ("GOG") Foundation, Inc., now part of NRG Oncology, is conducting a cooperative group sponsored Phase 2 open-label clinical study of AXAL in patients with persistent or recurrent cervical cancer with documented disease progression. The study, known as GOG-0265, has successfully completed its first stage and has met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient recruitment. The Company plans to advance this immunotherapy into a registrational clinical trial for the treatment of women with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer. AXAL has received United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") orphan drug designation for three HPV-associated cancers: cervical, head and neck, and anal cancer, and has received European Medicines Agency ("EMA") orphan drug designation for anal cancer. It is being evaluated in Company-sponsored trials executed under an Investigational New Drug ("IND") which include the following: (i) a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with MedImmune, LLC's ("MedImmune") investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736), in patients with previously treated metastatic cervical cancer and HPV-associated head and neck cancer; (ii) a Phase 1/2 study evaluating higher doses and repeat cycles of AXAL in patients with recurrent cervical cancer; (iii) a single arm Phase 2 monotherapy study in patients with metastatic anal cancer; and (iv) a Phase 2 study in collaboration with and funded by Global BioPharma Inc. ("GBP"), under a development and commercialization license agreement applicable to Asia, of AXAL in HPV-associated non-small cell lung cancer. In addition to the Company-sponsored trials, AXAL is also being evaluated in three ongoing investigator-initiated clinical trials as follows: locally advanced cervical cancer (GOG-0265), head and neck cancer (Mount Sinai & Baylor College of Medicine), and anal cancer (Brown University). ADXS-PSA is the Company's Lm-LLO immunotherapy product candidate designed to target the Prostate Specific Antigen ("PSA") associated with prostate cancer which is being evaluated in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck & Co.'s ("Merck") humanized monoclonal antibody against PD-1, in patients with previously treated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. ADXS-HER2 is the Company's Lm-LLO immunotherapy product candidate designed for the treatment of Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 ("HER2") expressing cancers, including human and canine osteosarcoma, breast, gastric and other cancers. ADXS-HER2 is being evaluated in a Phase 1b clinical trial in patients with metastatic HER2 expressing solid tumors. We received orphan drug designation from both the FDA and EMA for ADXS-HER2 in osteosarcoma and have received Fast Track designation from the FDA for patients with newly-diagnosed, non-metastatic, surgically-resectable osteosarcoma. Clinical research with ADXS-HER2 in canine osteosarcoma is being developed by our pet therapeutic partner, Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), who holds exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 and three other Lm -LLO immunotherapies for pet health applications. Aratana has announced that a product license application for use of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of canine osteosarcoma has been filed with the United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA"). Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2016. In October of 2015, the Company received notification from the FDA that the INDs for AXAL were put on clinical hold in response to its submission of a safety report to the FDA. The clinical hold also included the INDs for ADXS-PSA and ADXS-HER2. Following discussions with the FDA and in accordance with their recommendations, the Company agreed to implement certain risk mitigation measures, including revised study protocol inclusion / exclusion criteria, post-administration antibiotic treatment and patient surveillance and monitoring measures. In December 2015, the FDA notified the Company that the hold had been lifted with respect to its INDs. F- 5 The Company has focused its development efforts on establishing a drug development pipeline that incorporates this technology into therapeutic cancer immunotherapies, with clinical trials currently targeting HPV-associated cancer (cervical cancer, head and neck cancer and anal cancer), prostate cancer, and HER2-expressing cancers. Although no immunotherapies have been commercialized to date, the Company continues to invest in research and development to advance the technology and make it available to patients with many different types of cancer. Pipeline development and the further exploration of the technology for advancement entails risk and expense. The Company anticipates that its ongoing operational costs will increase significantly as it continues conducting and expanding its clinical development program. In addition to its existing single antigen vectors that target one tumor associated antigen, the Company is actively engaged in the development of new constructs that will address multiple targets that are common to tumor types, as well as mutation-associated neo-epitopes that are specific to an individual patient's tumor. Lastly, the Company is developing certain internal capabilities to produce supplies for its neoepitope and its other programs. Liquidity and Financial Condition The Company's products are being developed and have not generated significant revenues. As a result, the Company has suffered recurring losses. These losses are expected to continue for an extended period of time. During fiscal 2015, the Company raised an aggregate of $119.7 million in equity offerings and has approximately $94.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments as of April 30, 2016. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately through calendar year end 2017. The estimate is based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and the Company could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of its product candidates, the Company is unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of its current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION Basis of Presentation - Unaudited Interim Financial Information The accompanying unaudited interim condensed financial statements and related notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") for interim financial information, and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC with respect to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The unaudited interim condensed financial statements furnished reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to represent a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. These unaudited interim condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended October 31, 2015 and notes thereto contained in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2015, as filed with the SEC on January 8, 2016. The information presented in the accompanying unaudited condensed balance sheet as of October 31, 2015 has been derived from the Company's October 31, 2015 audited financial statements. Revenue Recognition The Company is expected to derive the majority of its revenue from patent licensing. In general, these revenue arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by the Company. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, or upon the final milestones being met, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. The Company recognizes licensing fees when there is persuasive evidence of a licensing arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred and collectability is reasonably assured. An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on the Company's best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the Company's existing license fee receivables, using historical experience. The Company reviews its allowance for doubtful accounts periodically. Past due accounts are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. To date, this is yet to occur. If product development is successful, the Company will recognize revenue from royalties based on licensees' sales of its products or products using its technologies. Royalties are recognized as earned in accordance with the contract terms when royalties from licensees can be reasonably estimated and collectability is reasonably assured. If royalties cannot be reasonably estimated or collectability of a royalty amount is not reasonably assured, royalties are recognized as revenue when the cash is received. F- 6 The Company recognizes revenue from milestone payments received under collaboration agreements when earned, provided that the milestone event is substantive, its achievability was not reasonably assured at the inception of the agreement, the Company has no further performance obligations relating to the event and collection is reasonably assured. If these criteria are not met, the Company recognizes milestone payments ratably over the remaining period of the Company's performance obligations under the collaboration agreement. All such recognized are included in collaborative licensing and development revenue in the Company's statements of operations. Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ substantially from these estimates. Significant estimates include the fair value and recoverability of the carrying value of intangible assets (patents and licenses), the fair value of stock options, the fair value of embedded conversion features, warrants and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from estimates. Reclassifications Certain amounts in the prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the presentation of the current period financial statements. These reclassifications had no effect on the previously reported net loss. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. As of April 30, 2016 and October 31, 2015, the Company had approximately $39.6 million and $62.8 million, respectively, in cash equivalents. Concentration of Credit Risk The Company maintains its cash in bank deposit accounts (checking) that at times exceed federally insured limits. Approximately $44.1 million is subject to credit risk at April 30, 2016. However, these cash balances are maintained at creditworthy financial institutions. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximated fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because of the relatively short maturity dates on these instruments. The carrying amounts of the financing arrangements issued approximate fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because interest rates on these instruments approximate market interest rates after consideration of stated interest rates, anti-dilution protection and associated warrants. Net Loss per Share Basic net income or loss per common share is computed by dividing net income or loss available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share give effect to dilutive options, warrants, convertible debt and other potential Common Stock outstanding during the period. In the case of a net loss the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from warrants, outstanding stock options and convertible debt are not included in the computation of diluted loss per share, as the effect would be anti-dilutive. In the case of net income, the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from these instruments that have intrinsic value are included in the diluted earnings per share. The table sets forth the number of potential shares of Common Stock that have been excluded from diluted net loss per share. Stock Based Compensation The Company has an equity plan which allows for the granting of stock options to its employees, directors and consultants for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at date of grant. The Company measures the cost of services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award. For employees and directors, the fair value of the award is measured on the grant date and for non-employees, the fair value of the award is generally measured based on contractual terms. The fair value amount is then recognized over the requisite service period, usually the vesting period, in both research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses on the statement of operations, depending on the nature of the services provided by the employees or consultants. F- 7 The process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing stock-based compensation cost over their requisite service period involves significant assumptions and judgments. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Model ("BSM") for the remaining awards, which requires that the Company makes certain assumptions regarding: (i) the expected volatility in the market price of its Common Stock; (ii) dividend yield; (iii) risk-free interest rates; and (iv) the period of time employees are expected to hold the award prior to exercise (referred to as the expected holding period). As a result, if the Company revises its assumptions and estimates, stock-based compensation expense could change materially for future grants. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using fair value recognition and records stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings net of the estimated impact of forfeited awards. As such, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost only for those stock-based awards that are estimated to ultimately vest over their requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the individual grants. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, as part of its ongoing efforts to assist in the convergence of GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which is a new standard related to revenue recognition. Under the new standard, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised services or goods in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. The standard must be adopted using either a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or a modified retrospective approach. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers - Deferral of the Effective Date, which defers the implementation of this new standard to be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted effective January 1, 2017. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations, which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, and in May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, which amend certain aspects of the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. We are currently evaluating which transition approach we will utilize and the impact of adopting this accounting standard on our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In January 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-01, Income Statement -Extraordinary and Unusual Items. The objective of this Update is to simplify the income statement presentation requirements in Subtopic 225-20 by eliminating the concept of extraordinary items. Extraordinary items are events and transactions that are distinguished by their unusual nature and by the infrequency of their occurrence. Eliminating the extraordinary classification simplifies income statement presentation by altogether removing the concept of extraordinary items from consideration. This Accounting Standards Update is the final version of Proposed Accounting Standards Update 2014-220-Income Statement-Extraordinary Items (Subtopic 225-20), which has been deleted. The amendments in this Update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. This Update is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). The standard amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets and making targeted changes to lessor accounting. ASU 2016-02 will be effective beginning in the first quarter of 2019. Early adoption of ASU 2016-02 is permitted. The new leases standard requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application, with an option to use certain transition relief. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on the Company's financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This ASU makes targeted amendments to the accounting for employee share-based payments. This guidance is to be applied using various transition methods such as full retrospective, modified retrospective, and prospective based on the criteria for the specific amendments as outlined in the guidance. The guidance is effective for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted, as long as all of the amendments are adopted in the same period. The Company has evaluated this standard and has chosen early adoption effective March 30, 2016. This ASU has not had a material impact on the Company's financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective accounting pronouncements, if adopted, would have a material impact on the accompanying condensed financial statements. F- 8 3. INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company's investment securities at amortized cost as of April 30, 2016 and October 31, 2015: All of the Company's investments mature within the next 12 months. 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment consists of the following: Depreciation expense for the three and six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 was $49,090, $95,124, $7,246 and $14,148, respectively. 5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Pursuant to our license agreement with the University of Pennsylvania ("Penn"), the Company is billed actual patent expenses as they are passed through from Penn and are billed directly from our patent attorney. The following is a summary of intangible assets as of the end of the following fiscal periods: The expirations of the existing patents range from 2016 to 2032 but the expirations can be extended based on market approval if granted and/or based on existing laws and regulations. Capitalized costs associated with patent applications that are abandoned without future value are charged to expense when the determination is made not to pursue the application. No patent applications with future value were abandoned or expired and charged to expense in the six months ended April 30, 2016 or 2015. Amortization expense for licensed technology and capitalized patent costs is included in research and development expenses and aggregated $60,798, $118,744, $50,389 and $98,692 for the three and six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. F- 9 Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows: Year ended October 31, 6. ACCRUED EXPENSES: The following table represents the major components of accrued expenses: 7. SHORT-TERM CONVERTIBLE NOTES & FAIR VALUE OF EMBEDDED DERIVATIVE During April 2016, the last remaining promissory note of $29,549 was converted into 1,481 shares of common stock at the $18.75 conversion price per the promissory note agreement. 8. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Warrants A summary of changes in warrants for the six months ended April 30, 2016 is as follows: At April 30, 2016, the Company had approximately 3.09 million of its total 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as equity (equity warrants). At October 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 3.22 million of its total 3.24 million outstanding warrants classified as equity (equity warrants). At issuance, equity warrants are recorded at their relative fair values, using the Relative Fair Value Method, in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet. The equity warrants can only be settled through the issuance of shares and are not subject to anti-dilution provisions. Warrant Liability At April 30, 2016, the Company had approximately 18,000 of its total approximately 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as liability warrants (liability warrants). As of October 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 18,000 of its total approximately 3.24 million total warrants classified as liabilities (liability warrants). The Company utilizes the BSM to calculate the fair value of these warrants at issuance and at each subsequent reporting date. The liability warrants contain a cash settlement provision in the event of a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Common Stock purchase warrant). Any changes in the fair value of the warrant liability (i.e. - the total fair value of all outstanding liability warrants at the balance sheet date) between reporting periods will be reported on the statement of operations. F- 10 At April 30, 2016 and October 31, 2015, the fair value of the warrant liability was $39,337 and $89,211, respectively. For the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company reported a gain of $592 and a loss of $23,236, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. For the six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company reported a gain of $49,874 and a loss of $287,307, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. In determining the fair value of the warrant liability at April 30, 2016 and October 31, 2015, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: Exercise of Warrants During the six months ended April 30, 2016, warrants to purchase 122,661 shares of common stock were exercised, which resulted in cash proceeds of $614,368. As of April 30, 2016, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 3,110,575 shares of the Company's Common Stock with exercise prices ranging from $3.75 to $18.75 per share. As of April 30, 2016, the aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding warrants was approximately $8,476,000. 9. SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Employment Agreements Management voluntarily purchases restricted stock directly from the Company at market price. The respective stock purchases occur on the last trading day of each month. This voluntary election is outlined in each of Daniel J. O'Connor, Chief Executive Officer and President, Gregory T. Mayes, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Robert G. Petit, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, and Sara M. Bonstein, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, (each an "Executive"), employment agreements. The table below reflects the purchases of each Executive: For the three months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded stock compensation expense of $56,926 in the statement of operations for the portion of management salaries voluntarily paid in stock representing 8,028 shares of its Common Stock (5,785 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the three months ended April 30, 2015, the Company recorded a similar stock compensation expense of $43,925 in the statement of operations representing 3,474 shares of its Common Stock (3,129 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the six months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded stock compensation expense of $121,257 in the statement of operations for the portion of management salaries voluntarily paid in stock representing 15,088 shares of its Common Stock (10,732 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the six months ended April 30, 2015, the Company recorded a similar stock compensation expense of $90,088 in the statement of operations representing 11,305 shares of its Common Stock (10,182 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). From 2013 to present, in addition to the purchases of Common Stock set forth in the above table, Mr. O'Connor has also purchased an additional 164,909 shares of Common Stock out of his personal funds at the then market price for an aggregate consideration of $689,004. These purchases consisted of the conversion of amounts due to Mr. O'Connor under a promissory note given by Mr. O'Connor to the Company in 2012 of approximately $66,500 for 21,091 shares, 2013 base salary which he elected to receive in Common Stock of approximately $186,555 for 34,752 shares (21,489 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), 2013 and 2014 cash bonuses voluntarily requested to receive in equity of $214,359 for 62,064 shares (57,990 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), fiscal 2014 voluntary request to purchase stock directly from the Company at market price purchases of $68,750 for 21,687 shares (15,950 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), fiscal 2015 voluntary request to purchase stock directly from the Company at market price purchases of $88,840 for 8,482 shares (7,556 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), and purchases of the Company's Common Stock in the October 2013 and March 2014 public offerings of 13,500 shares for $54,000 and 3,333 shares for $10,000. Executives were entitled to receive a performance-based year-end cash bonus. For the six months ended April 30, 2015, the executive officers voluntarily elected to receive a portion of their year-end performance bonus (with a total fair value of approximately $418,000) in the aggregate amount of 125,411 shares of the Company's Common Stock (98,603 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). F- 11 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) A summary of the Company's RSU activity and related information for the six months ended April 30, 2016 is as follows: As of April 30, 2016, there was approximately $7,027,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 1.15 years. As of April 30, 2016, the aggregate intrinsic value of non-vested RSUs was approximately $814,000. Employee Stock Awards Common Stock issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements and employee excellence awards totaled 134,239 and 129,583 shares (83,665 shares on a net basis after employee taxes) for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 was $876,228 and $1,138,471, respectively. Common Stock issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements and employee excellence awards totaled 372,368 shares and 163,678 shares (111,231 shares on a net basis after employee taxes) during the six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 was $2,733,304 and $1,272,170, respectively. Furthermore, non-executive employees were entitled to receive a performance-based year-end cash bonus. Several non-executive employees voluntarily requested to be paid all or a portion of their cash bonus in the Company's Common Stock instead of cash. During the six months ended April 30, 2016, the total fair value of these equity purchases were $102,022, or 9,150 shares of the Company's Common Stock. During the six months ended April 30, 2015, the total fair value of these equity purchases were $67,671, or 20,322 shares of the Company's Common Stock (14,300 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). Director Stock Awards Common stock issued to Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership totaled 61,767 and 23,955 shares for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 was $311,205 and $96,540, respectively. Common stock issued to Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership totaled 93,534 and 215,895 shares (202,468 shares on a net basis after taxes) for the six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 was $622,410 and $703,079, respectively. Stock Options A summary of changes in the stock option plan for the six months ended April 30, 2016 is as follows: Total compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options, recognized in the statement of operations for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, was $3,280,517 and $4,717,831, respectively. For the six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options was $9,952,502 and $4,864,686, respectively. F- 12 During the six months ended April 30, 2016, 1,385,000 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of $14,837,970. During the six months ended April 30, 2015, 400,798 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of $4,656,000. As of April 30, 2016, there was approximately $24,604,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 1.45 years. As of April 30, 2016, the aggregate intrinsic value of vested and exercisable options was approximately $57,000. In determining the fair value of the stock options granted during the six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: Shares Issued to Consultants During the three months ended April 30, 2016, 65,893 shares of Common Stock valued at $570,001 were issued to consultants for services, of which $302,300 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $40,000 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. During the three months ended April 30, 2015, 123,650 shares of Common Stock valued at $1,585,907 were issued to consultants for services. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. During the six months ended April 30, 2016, 89,017 shares of Common Stock valued at $845,088 were issued to consultants for services, of which $55,000 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $40,000 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. During the six months ended April 30, 2015, 243,650 shares of Common Stock valued at $2,377,907 were issued to consultants for services. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense included in the Statement of Operations by expense category for the six months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively: 10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES: Legal Proceedings Knoll On August 21, 2015, Knoll Capital Management L.P. ("KCM") filed a complaint against the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The complaint alleges the existence of an oral agreement for the purchase by Knoll from the Company of 1,666,666.67 shares of Company stock at a price of $3.00 per share. KCM alleges that the Company breached this alleged agreement and seeks specific performance or, alternatively, money damages for breach of contract. KCM served the Company with the complaint on August 31, 2015, and then served an amended complaint on October 16, 2015. The Company moved to dismiss the amended complaint on October 26, 2015 and that motion was denied on January 29, 2016. The Company filed an answer to the amended complaint on February 12, 2016. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously. F- 13 Larkin and Bono On July 27, 2015, a derivative complaint was filed by a purported Company shareholder in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against certain of the Company's officers and directors styled Timothy Larkin v. O'Connor, et al., Case No. 11338-CB (Del. Ch. July 27, 2015) (the "Larkin Action"). The Larkin Action was brought derivatively on behalf of the Company, which is also named as a nominal defendant. On August 20, 2015, a related derivative complaint was filed by a purported Company shareholder in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against the same defendants styled David Bono v. O'Connor, et al., Case No. 3:15-CV-006326-FLW-DEA (D.N.J. Aug. 20, 2015) (the "Bono Action"). Both complaints are based on general allegations related to certain stock options granted to the individual defendants and generally allege counts for breaches of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment. The Bono complaint alleges additional claims for violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and for waste of corporate assets. Both complaints seek damages and costs of an unspecified amount, disgorgement of compensation obtained by the individual defendants, and injunctive relief. Defendants filed motions to dismiss in both actions. On March 22, 2016, the Delaware Court of Chancery issued a partial ruling on the motion to dismiss in the Larkin Action. The court denied the motion to dismiss as to the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claim against the three members of the Compensation Committee, but expressly reserved ruling on the disclosure claim against all defendants and the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the other eight individual defendants. On May 23, 2016, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey issued an opinion and order granting in part and denying in part defendants' motion to dismiss. The court denied the motion to dismiss as to the breach of fiduciary duty claim and unjust enrichment claim against the three members of the Compensation Committee, but dismissed without prejudice the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the other eight individual defendants. The court dismissed without prejudice the Section 14(a) disclosure claim and waste claims against all defendants. At this stage of each proceeding, the Company does not express any opinion as to the likely outcome, but the Company intends to defend each action vigorously. The Company is from time to time involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. The Company does not believe that any of these claims and proceedings against it is likely to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Clinical Trial Collaboration Agreement On February 3, 2016, the Company entered into a Co-Development and Commercialization Agreement (the "Agreement") with Especificos Stendhal SA de CV ("Stendhal"), for Advaxis' lead Lm Technology immunotherapy, AXAL, in HPV-associated cancers. Under the terms of the Agreement, Stendhal will pay $10 million towards the expense of AIM2CERV, a planned global Phase 3 clinical trial in women with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer. This payment will be made over the duration of the trial and covers a significant portion of the total planned study costs. Stendhal will also work with the Company to complete the clinical trial of AXAL in Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and other investigational sites in Latin American countries. Stendhal will manage and is responsible for the costs associated with the regulatory approval process, promotion, commercialization and market access for AXAL in these markets. Upon approval and commercialization of AXAL, Advaxis and Stendhal will share profits on a pre-determined basis. Operating Leases The Company's corporate offices are currently located at 305 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. On February 1, 2016, the Company entered into an amendment to its office lease. The amendment increased the leased space by approximately 25,000 square feet to a total of approximately 44,000 square feet. The additional space will allow the Company to expand manufacturing, testing, and product development capabilities, accelerate execution of pipeline related projects, strengthen the supply chain, and continue to ensure reliable and cost competitive supply of product. The lease term was extended by three years and is now scheduled to expire on November 30, 2025. The Company paid an additional security deposit of $100,061. The amended lease requires an annual rent of approximately $893,000 with annual increases in increments between 2% and 11% throughout the remainder of the lease. The lease amendment contains a six month rent abatement period that started in February 2016, and a reduced lease rate for four months starting in August 2016. Rent expense will be recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. The Company plans to continue to rent necessary offices and laboratories to support its business. Future minimum payments of the Company's operating leases are as follows: Year ended October 31, 11. FAIR VALUE The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or the most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Market participants are buyers and sellers in the principal market that are (i) independent, (ii) knowledgeable, (iii) able to transact, and (iv) willing to transact. The guidance describes a fair value hierarchy based on the levels of inputs, of which the first two are considered observable and the last unobservable, that may be used to measure fair value which are the following: Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2- Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or corroborated by observable market data or substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the value of the assets or liabilities. F- 14 The following table provides the liabilities carried at fair value measured on a recurring basis as of April 30, 2016 and October 31, 2015: Common stock warrant liability: 12. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On May 2, 2016, the Company issued 4,687 shares of Common Stock to the Board of Directors, which represents a portion of their quarterly retainer fees. On May 4, 2016, the Company issued 20,550 shares of Common Stock to accredited investors as payment for consulting services. From May 1, 2016 to the date the financial statements were issued, the Company issued 23,750 shares of Common Stock, which represents inducement grants to employees. F- 15 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements as a result of many known or unknown factors, including, but not limited to, those factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and incorporated by reference herein. See also the "Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" set forth at the beginning of this report. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the unaudited consolidated financial statements, and the related footnotes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this report, and in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis and the audited consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2015. Overview We are a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary Lm-LLO cancer immunotherapies. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-LLO strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. AXAL Franchise AXAL is an Lm-LLO immunotherapy directed against HPV and designed to target cells expressing the HPV. It is currently under investigation or planned investigation in four HPV-associated cancers: cervical cancer, head and neck cancer, anal cancer, and lung cancer, either as a monotherapy or in combination. Cervical Cancer There are 527,624 new cases of cervical cancer caused by HPV worldwide every year, and 14,377 new cases in the U.S. alone, according to the WHO Human Papillomavirus and Related Cancers in the World Summary Report 2014 ("WHO"). Current preventative vaccines cannot protect the 20 million women who are already infected with HPV. Challenges with acceptance, accessibility, and compliance have resulted in approximately a third of young women being vaccinated in the United States and even less in other countries around the world. We completed a randomized Phase 2 clinical study (Lm-LLO-E7-15), conducted exclusively in India, in 110 women with recurrent/refractory cervical cancer. The final results were presented at the 2014 American Society of Clinical Oncology ("ASCO") Annual Meeting, and showed that 32% (35/109) of patients were alive at 12 months, 22% (24/109) of patients were Long-term Survivors ("LTS") alive greater than 18 months, and 18% (16/91) evaluable with adequate follow-up) of patients were alive for more than 24 months. Of the 109 patients treated in the study, LTS included not only patients with tumor shrinkage but also patients who had experienced stable disease or increased tumor burden. 17% (19/109) of the patients in the trial had recurrence of disease after at least two prior treatments for their cervical cancer; these patients comprised 8% (2/24) of LTS. Among the LTS, 25% (3/12) of patients had a baseline ECOG performance status of 2, a patient population that is often times excluded from clinical trials. Furthermore, a 10% objective response rate (including 5 complete responses and 6 partial responses) and a disease control rate of 38% (42/109) were observed. The addition of cisplatin chemotherapy to AXAL in this study did not significantly improve overall survival or objective tumor response (p =0.9981). In this study, 109 patients received 254 doses of AXAL. AXAL was found to be well tolerated with 38% (41/109) of patients experiencing mild to moderate Grade 1 or 2 transient adverse events associated with infusion; 1 patient experienced a Grade 3 Serious Adverse Events ("SAE"). All observed treatment related adverse events either self-resolved or responded readily to symptomatic treatment. We have completed an End-of-Phase 2 ("EOP2") meeting with the FDA. The purpose of the EOP2 meeting was to discuss AXAL preclinical data, Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls ("CMC"), and clinical program, prior to moving AXAL forward into a registrational trial in cervical cancer. At the meeting, the FDA provided guidance on our CMC activities and clinical development plan. We have submitted our Phase 3 protocol under a Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") request to the FDA. The SPA request included specific questions from Advaxis to facilitate a meaningful dialogue with the FDA on the proposed study design. We have received back from FDA comments and considerations for incorporation into our study design. Additional rounds of review may occur, which can extend the review period and be beneficial in reaching agreement with the FDA on design elements. Based on the FDA's feedback, we may reach final agreement with FDA or may decide to incorporate the advice into the design of the Phase 3 clinical study without undergoing additional rounds of review. FDA's assessment of the SPA request, and all related feedback, are valuable in the development of AXAL. Contingent upon the outcome of the forgoing, we plan to initiate, in collaboration with the GOG/NRG Oncology, an independent international non-profit organization with the purpose of promoting excellence in the quality and integrity of clinical and basic scientific research in the field of gynecologic malignancies, a registrational clinical trial in cervical cancer in 2016 to support a Biologics License Application ("BLA") submission in the U.S. and in other territories around the world. 4 The planned registrational clinical trial will be a Phase 3 study of adjuvant AXAL, following primary treatment with chemoradiation, in patients with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer compared to placebo alone. This study will evaluate both the time it takes for the cancer to recur as well as the overall survival. Our goal is to develop a treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of recurrence of cervical cancer after primary treatment interventions. Biocon Limited ("Biocon"), our co-development and commercialization partner for AXAL in India and key emerging markets, filed a Marketing Authorization Application ("MAA") for licensure of this immunotherapy in India. The Drug Controller General of India ("DCGI") accepted this MAA for review. The filing of the MAA was driven by several factors: (i) results from the Lm -LLO-E7-15 Phase 2 trial indicated that AXAL was well tolerated and showed significant clinical activity in recurrent/refractory cervical cancer; (ii) cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among Indian women (according to WHO, there are 122,844 new cases per year with 67,544 deaths reported); and (iii) current treatment options for non-operable refractory/recurrent disease are limited in India. As part of the MAA review process, Biocon met with the Scientific Expert Committee (the "Committee"). The Committee indicated that proof of concept for this novel immunotherapy has been established. The Committee advised Biocon to obtain data from a Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with recurrent cervical cancer who have failed prior chemo and radiation therapy. The face-to-face interaction with the Committee provided Biocon and Advaxis with valuable insight for future development and the companies are evaluating next steps. We are conducting a Phase 1/2 trial evaluating higher doses and repeat cycles of AXAL in patients with recurrent cervical cancer. This study successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x10 9 CFU and 1x10 10 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The Company believes it has gained a sufficient understanding of the safety profile of higher dose levels based on result from this as well as other ongoing Advaxis studies. As a result, the Company has elected not to enroll any additional patients into this study. We have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune, the global biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca, and are conducting a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two-part study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of our investigational Lm -LLO cancer immunotherapy, AXAL, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab, as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck ("SCCHN"). For the AXAL and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, Cohort 1 has been completed allowing for advancement to the next dose level. Once the dose escalation has been completed, the recommended combination dose will be advanced further into the study. The GOG Foundation, Inc. (now a member of NRG Oncology), under the sponsorship of the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program ("CTEP") of the National Cancer Institute ("NCI"), is independently conducting GOG-0265, an open-label, single arm Phase 2 study of AXAL in persistent or recurrent cervical cancer (patients must have received at least 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of their recurrent/metastatic disease, not including that administered as a component of primary treatment) at 21 clinical sites in the U.S. The first stage of enrollment in GOG-0265 has successfully been completed with 26 patients treated and has met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient enrollment. Clinical data from the first stage of GOG-0265 was presented at the American Gynecological &amp; Obstetrical Society ("AGOS") annual meeting on September 17, 2015. Overall survival at 12 months was 38.5% (10/26) (the predefined criteria for 12-month survival was 20%), and, among patients who had received the full treatment regimen of 3 doses of AXAL, the 12-month survival rate was 55.6% (10/18). The adverse events observed in the first stage of the study have been consistent with those reported in other clinical studies with AXAL. It was well-tolerated, with Grade 1-2 fatigue, chills, and fever the most commonly reported Adverse Events ("AE"); six patients experienced a treatment-related Grade 3 or Grade 4 AE, which was considered possibly-related to AXAL. The second stage of the study began enrollment in February 2015 and includes a protocol amendment to allow patients to continue to receive repeat cycles of therapy until disease progression. Stage 2 enrollment ceased upon the clinical hold in October 2015. Patients enrolled in Stage 2 are available for evaluation, however, Advaxis and the GOG Foundation/NRG Oncology agreed to re-enroll a new cohort of Stage 2 patients to GOG-0265 in order to obtain a complete cohort of data for Stage 2 and final analysis. Preliminary findings from patients initially enrolled in Stage 2 of GOG-0265, noting data generally consistent with findings in Stage 1 despite a more heavily bevacizumab pre-treated population, will be presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology ("ASCO") annual meeting. AXAL has received FDA orphan drug designation for invasive Stage II-IV cervical cancer. Head and Neck Cancer SCCHN is the most frequently occurring malignant tumor of the head and neck and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. More than 90% of SCCHNs originate from the mucosal linings of the oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx and 60-80% of these cancers are caused by HPV. According to the American Cancer Society, head and neck cancer accounts for about 3% to 5% of all cancers in the United States with an increasing incidence of HPV-associated head and neck cancers. Approximately 12,000 new cases will be diagnosed in the United Stated in 2016 according to the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results ("SEER") database. 5 The safety and immunogenicity of AXAL is being evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND at Mount Sinai and Baylor College of Medicine in a pre-surgery "window of opportunity" trial in patients with HPV-positive head and neck cancer. This clinical trial is the first study to evaluate the immunologic and pathologic effects of AXAL in patients when they are initially diagnosed with HPV-associated head and neck cancer. Preliminary clinical data from this trial was presented at the American Association of Cancer Research ("AACR") annual meeting on April 18, 2016. The data presented showed that, among the eight enrolled AXAL - treated patients, HPV E7- and/or E6-specific T cell responses increased in the peripheral blood in five of the study patients. Increased infiltration of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were observed in the Tumor Immune Microenvironment ("TME") of four patients, with a reduction of FOXP3+ regulatory T cells within the tumors of 3/6 patients. Increased T cell responses to HPV E6 supports enhanced immune activity against additional tumor targets. Changes to the TME included cytotoxic T cell infiltration into the post-resection tumor, increased immune activation, a reduction of regulatory T cells, infiltration of cytotoxic T cells, and increased expression of inflammatory activation markers. In addition, fluctuations of circulating serum cytokine (IL-15, IL-9, TNfa, IL-2 and MIP-1b) levels were observed potentially suggesting consumption by activated T cells and migration of T cells to the TME. As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to collaborate on a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of durvalumab (MEDI4736) in combination with AXAL as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. AXAL has received FDA orphan drug designation for HPV-associated head and neck cancer. Anal Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, nearly all squamous cell anal cancers are linked to infection by HPV, the same virus that causes cervical cancer. According to the SEER database, approximately 7,500 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016. The safety and efficacy of AXAL is being evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND by Brown University in patients with high-risk locally advanced anal cancer. Preliminary data indicates all patients who have completed the treatment regimen have experienced a six-month complete response, with no disease recurrence. In consideration of these preliminary data, the investigator at Brown University is evaluating the opportunity to transition this study into a NCI-funded cooperative group trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of AXAL in a pivotal Phase 2/3 anal cancer trial, to be conducted by NRG Oncology. In advance of the foregoing, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group ("RTOG") Foundation for the conduct of such study. We plan to enroll patients in a Company sponsored Phase 2 study in patients with persistent/recurrent, loco-regional or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the anorectal canal in 2016. AXAL has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for anal cancer. Lung Cancer Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Taiwan, China, and worldwide. Histologically, Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer ("NSCLC"), including squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, and large cell carcinoma, comprises more than 80% of lung cancers. Cigarette smoking is the primary risk factor and accounts for approximately 85% of all lung cancer cases. For those who have never smoked, HPV infection is considered to be an important cause of lung cancer in Asia. In a recent international pooled analysis of data on HPV-associated lung cancers, the prevalence in Asia was found to be 5% of all lung cancers. GBP, our development and commercialization partner in Asia, is planning to conduct a randomized Phase 2, open-label, controlled study in HPV-associated NSCLC in patients following first-line induction chemotherapy. Pending Taiwanese FDA approval, the study is planned to initiate in 2016 and will enroll up to 124 patients. This trial will be fully funded exclusively by GBP. ADXS-PSA Franchise Prostate Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer is the second most common type of cancer found in American men. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in men, behind only lung cancer. One man in seven will get prostate cancer during his lifetime, and one man in 36 will die of this disease. About 210,000 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016 according to the SEER database. ADXS-PSA is an Lm -LLO immunotherapy designed to target the PSA antigen commonly overexpressed in prostate cancer. We have entered into a clinical trial collaboration and supply agreement with Merck &amp; Co. ("Merck") to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, we successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x10 9 CFU and 1x10 10 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The Company believes it has gained a sufficient understanding of the safety profile of higher dose levels based on result from this as well as other ongoing Advaxis studies. Additional patients at the 1x10 9 CFU dose level will be enrolled to complete the dose escalation phase of the study. After ensuring adequate safety of this dose in the prostate cancer patient population, the study will proceed into the combination phase. 6 ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 Expressing Solid Tumors HER2 is overexpressed in a percentage of solid tumors such as breast, gastric, bladder, brain, pancreatic, ovarian and osteosarcoma. According to the SEER database and recent published literature, the percentage of HER2 expression varies by cancer type, with approximately 70,000 new cases of invasive HER2 positive breast cancer diagnosed each year in the US; approximately 5,000 new cases of HER2 positive gastric cancer; approximately 22,000 new cases of HER2 positive bladder cancer; approximately 20,000 new cases of HER2 positive pancreatic cancer; approximately 2,500 new cases of HER2 positive ovarian cancer; and approximately 600 new cases of HER2 positive osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 is an Lm -LLO immunotherapy designed to target HER2 expressing solid tumors such as human and canine osteosarcoma, breast, gastric and other cancers. The FDA has cleared our IND application and we have initiated a Phase 1b study in patients with metastatic HER2-expressing cancers. Thereafter, we intend to initiate a clinical development program with ADXS-HER2 for the treatment of pediatric osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma Osteosarcoma affects about 400 children and teens in the U.S. every year, representing a small but significant unmet medical need that has seen little therapeutic improvement in decades. Osteosarcoma is considered a rare disease and may qualify for regulatory incentives including, but not limited to, orphan drug designation, patent term extension, market exclusivity, and development grants. Given the limited availability of new treatment options for osteosarcoma, and that it is an unmet medical need affecting a very small number of patients in the U.S. annually, we believe that, subject to regulatory approval, the potential to be on the market may be accelerated. Based on encouraging data discussed below from a veterinarian clinical study in which pet dogs with naturally occurring osteosarcoma were treated with ADXS-HER2, we intend to initiate a clinical development program with ADXS-HER2 for the treatment of human osteosarcoma. Both veterinary and human osteosarcoma specialists consider canine osteosarcoma to be the best model for human osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for osteosarcoma and has received Fast Track designation from the FDA for patients with newly-diagnosed, non-metastatic, surgically-resectable osteosarcoma. Canine Osteosarcoma Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone tumor in dogs, accounting for roughly 85% of tumors on the canine skeleton. Approximately 10,000 dogs a year (predominately middle to older-aged dogs and larger breeds) are diagnosed with osteosarcoma in the United States. This cancer initially presents as lameness and oftentimes visible swelling on the leg. Current standard of care treatment is amputation immediately after diagnosis, followed by chemotherapy. Median survival time with standard of care is ten to twelve months. For dogs that cannot undergo amputation, palliative radiation and analgesics are frequently employed and median survival times range from three to five months. Under the direction of Dr. Nicola Mason, the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine is conducting studies in companion dogs evaluating the safety and efficacy of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of naturally occurring canine osteosarcoma. In the initial study, the primary endpoint was to determine the maximum tolerated dose of ADXS-HER2. Secondary endpoints for the study were progression-free survival and overall survival. The findings of the Phase 1 clinical trial in dogs with osteosarcoma suggest that ADXS-HER2 is safe and well tolerated at doses up to 3.3 x 10 9 CFU with no evidence of significant cardiac, hematological, or other systemic toxicities. The study determined that ADXS-HER2 is able to delay or prevent metastatic disease and significantly prolong overall survival in dogs with osteosarcoma that had minimal residual disease following standard of care (amputation and follow-up chemotherapy). This work was recently published in the March 2016 issue of Clinical Cancer Research. Dogs receiving ADXS-HER2 following standard of care (n=18) had a progression free survival of 615 days and a median survival time of 956 days. These results compared favorably to a historical control group where the median survival time was 423 days. A second study conducted by Dr. Mason has evaluated the effects of combination palliative radiation with ADXS-HER2 on dogs with primary osteosarcoma who were unsuitable for amputation (n=15). Preliminary data was presented at the 2015 ACVIM Forum and showed that repeat doses of ADXS-HER2 administered after palliative radiation were well tolerated with no systemic or cardiac toxicity. In long-term follow-up, several dogs have experienced prolonged survival times ranging from 18 to 28 months. On March 19, 2014, we entered into a definitive Exclusive License Agreement with Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), where we granted Aratana an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, certain of our proprietary technology that enables Aratana to develop and commercialize animal health products that will be targeted for treatment of osteosarcoma and other cancer indications in animals. A product license request has been filed by Aratana for ADXS-HER2 (also known as AT-014 by Aratana) for the treatment of canine osteosarcoma with the USDA. Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2016. Aratana has been granted exclusive worldwide rights by us to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 in animals. Aratana is further responsible for the conduct of clinical research with ADXS-Survivin in canine/feline lymphoma, as well as pending investigations of two additional Advaxis constructs in animals. 7 ADXS-NEO Franchise (preclinical) In February 2016, we had a productive pre-IND meeting with the FDA. Following this meeting, we intend to file an IND application for ADXS-NEO and to initiate Company-sponsored studies, as well as external collaborations, under a program entitled "MINE " (My Immunotherapy Neo-Epitopes). The goal of MINE is to use our Lm-LLO cancer immunotherapy technology to develop neo-epitope immunotherapies based on an individual patient's tumor ("ADXS-NEO"). MINE will first focus on a preclinical study of our new construct approach to evaluate the immunologic effects and anti-tumor activity of a personalized immunotherapy in a mouse tumor model. We will use learnings from the MINE collaboration to identify and target neoepitopes using Lm -LLO technology and later develop patient specific immunotherapy constructs that incorporate the neoepitope sequences identified in the patient's tumor cells. Clinical studies using ADXS-NEO are in development. Further, we have entered into a research collaboration with Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center ("MSK") to advance the study of neoepitope-based, personalized cancer therapy. ADXS-TNBC Franchise (preclinical) We are developing a construct that targets antigens specific to Triple-Negative Breast Cancer ("TNBC"), which accounts for approximately 15-20% of all diagnosed breast cancer cases and has not been amenable to targeted therapies directed toward estrogen, progesterone, or HER2 receptors. A majority of TNBC patients' still exhibit poor outcomes, with only 30-45% of patients achieving a pathological complete response from conventional chemotherapeutic and radiation therapy. The heterogeneous nature of this cancer type, the presence of mutations in multiple pathways, and the development of resistance to single agents make combination therapy much more attractive and suggest the need for agents that address more than one antigen/target. Lm-LLO Combination Franchise AXAL and Durvalumab As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to conduct a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of our investigational Lm- LLO cancer immunotherapy, AXAL, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736) for the treatment of patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. For the AXAL and durvalumab (MEDI4736) dose escalation portion of the study, Cohort 1 has been completed allowing for advancement to the next dose level. Once the dose escalation has been completed, the recommended combination dose will be advanced further into the study. ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab ) As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with Merck to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, we successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x10 9 CFU and 1x10 10 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The Company believes it has gained a sufficient understanding of the safety profile of higher dose levels based on result from this as well as other ongoing Advaxis studies. Additional patients at the 1x10 9 CFU dose level will be enrolled to complete the dose escalation phase of the study. After ensuring adequate safety of this dose in the prostate cancer patient population, the study will proceed into the combination phase. Lm-LLO Immunotherapy (preclinical) We have various preclinical collaborations with academic and other centers of excellence. 8 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2016 AND 2015 Revenue We did not record any revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016 or 2015. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expense was approximately $8.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared with approximately $6.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015, an increase of approximately $2.6 million. The increase was a result of higher third-party costs, specifically related to AXAL support in manufacturing and clinical trial expenses, for the Anal, Head & Neck, High Dose, Prostate and Cervical Cancer programs, as well as ADXS-PSA Phase 1/2 trial support. Furthermore, the increase was also a result of an increased number of employees to support the research and development initiatives. We anticipate a significant increase in research and development expenses as a result of our intended expanded development and commercialization efforts primarily related to clinical trials and product development. In addition, we expect to incur expenses in the development of strategic and other relationships required to license, manufacture and distribute our product candidates when they are approved. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expenses were approximately $6.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared with approximately $7.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015, a decrease of approximately $0.8 million. A decrease of approximately $1.1 million in stock-based compensation attributable to awards that became fully vested during the prior period more than offset an increase in our employees. A decrease in non-cash investor relations costs of approximately $0.6 million was offset by an increase in facilities costs that resulted from an expansion in laboratory and office space. Interest Income Interest income was $70,389 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, compared with $14,503 for the three months ended April 30, 2015. Interest income earned for the three months ended April 30, 2016 reflected interest income earned on the Company's held-to-maturity investments and savings account balance. Interest income earned for the three months ended April 30, 2015 reflected interest income earned on the Company's savings account balance. Changes in Fair Values For the three months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $592 as the effect of the passage of time as the warrants moved three months closer to maturity offset a modest increase in our share price from $6.82 at January 31, 2016 to $7.74 at April 30, 2016. For the three months ended April 30, 2015, the Company recorded non-cash expense from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $23,236 due to an increase in the fair value of liability warrants primarily resulting from a significant increase in our share price from $9.85 at January 31, 2015 to $16.81 at April 30, 2015, which was partially offset by the expiration of some warrants. Other Expense During the three months ended April 30, 2015, we recorded debt conversion expense of $6,599 as a result of inducing certain noteholders to convert their convertible promissory notes into common shares by offering conversion prices at a discount from the market price of the common stock. Income Tax Expense We did not record any income tax expense for the three months ended April 30, 2016 or 2015. 9 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2016 AND 2015 Revenue During the six months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded revenue of $250,000 due to the receipt of an annual exclusive license fee from GBP for the development and commercialization of AXAL. We did not record any revenue for the six months ended April 30, 2015. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expense was $21.8 million for the six months ended April 30, 2016, compared with $9.8 million for the six months ended April 30, 2015, an increase of $12.0 million. The increase was a result of higher third-party costs, specifically related to AXAL support in manufacturing and clinical trial expenses, for the Anal, Head & Neck, High Dose, Prostate and Cervical Cancer programs, as well as ADXS-PSA Phase 1/2 trial support. Stock based compensation for existing and past employees increased by approximately $3.7 million due to increases in the grant date fair value of stock awards and the number of awards. Moreover, the increase was also a result of an increased number of employees to support the research and development initiatives. We anticipate a significant increase in research and development expenses as a result of our intended expanded development and commercialization efforts primarily related to clinical trials and product development. In addition, we expect to incur expenses in the development of strategic and other relationships required to license, manufacture and distribute our product candidates when they are approved. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expense was $14.0 million for the six months ended April 30, 2016, compared with $10.8 million for the six months ended April 30, 2015, an increase of $3.2 million. There was an increase of approximately $3.1 million in compensation related expense, including a non-cash increase in stock based compensation costs of approximately $1.6 million, attributable to increases in our employees, the grant date fair value of stock awards and the number of awards. A decrease in non-cash investor relations costs of approximately $0.7 million was offset by an increase in facilities costs that resulted from an expansion in laboratory and office space. Interest Income Interest income was $142,189 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, compared with $20,739 for the six months ended April 30, 2015. Interest income earned for the six months ended April 30, 2016 reflected interest income earned on the Company's held-to-maturity investments and savings account balance. Interest income earned for the six months ended April 30, 2015 reflected interest income earned on the Company's savings account balance. Changes in Fair Values For the six months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $49,874 due to a decrease in the fair value of liability warrants primarily resulting from a decrease in our share price from $11.09 at October 31, 2015 to $7.74 at April 30, 2016. For the six months ended April 30, 2015, the Company recorded non-cash expense from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $287,307 due to an increase in the fair value of liability warrants primarily resulting from a larger range of share prices used in the calculation of the BSM volatility input, as well as a significant increase in our share price from $3.18 at October 31, 2014 to $16.81 at April 30, 2015. This was partially offset by the expiration of some warrants. Other Expense During the six months ended April 30, 2015, we recorded debt conversion expense of $6,599 as a result of inducing certain noteholders to convert their convertible promissory notes into common shares by offering conversion prices at a discount from the market price of the common stock. Income Tax Expense During the six months ended April 30, 2016, we paid $50,000 in Taiwanese withholding taxes in connection with the revenue generated from an annual exclusive license fee from GBP. The taxes paid were offset by receipt of a net cash amount of $35,774 in excess of what was recorded as Income Tax Receivable at October 31, 2015 from the sale of our state NOLs and research and development tax credits for the period ended October 31, 2014. 10 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our major sources of cash have been proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock, option and warrant exercises, and interest income. From October 2013 through April 2016, we raised approximately $166.5 million in gross proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock. We have not yet commercialized any drug, and we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approvals for our drug, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations, successfully compete with other available treatment options in the marketplace, overcome any clinical holds that the FDA may impose and successfully manufacture and commercialize our drug alone or in partnership. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even after we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates. We believe our current cash position is sufficient to fund our business plan approximately through December 2017. The actual amount of cash that we will need to operate is subject to many factors. Since our inception through April 30, 2016, the Company has reported accumulated net losses of approximately $169.5 million and recurring negative cash flows from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future. Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $16.8 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and Research and Development (R&D) tax credits of approximately $1.6 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended April 30, 2015 was approximately $9.1 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and R&D tax credits of approximately $1.7 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $5.4 million resulting from investments in held-to-maturity investments, purchases of property and equipment, construction of cleanroom and laboratory facilities, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2015 was approximately $344,000 resulting from legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $538,000, resulting from approximately $614,000 in proceeds received on option and warrant exercises. This was partially offset by approximately $76,000 in taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2015 was approximately $37.8 million, resulting primarily from registered direct offerings of 7,008,896 shares of our Common Stock resulting in net proceeds of $38.1 million. In addition, the Company received $0.3 million from the proceeds received on option and warrant exercises. This was partially offset by approximately $619,000 in taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Our capital resources and operations to date have been funded primarily with the proceeds from public, private equity and debt financings, NOL tax sales and income earned on investments and grants. We have sustained losses from operations in each fiscal year since our inception, and we expect losses to continue for the indefinite future, due to the substantial investment in research and development. As of April 30, 2016 and October 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $169,517,980 and $134,054,259, respectively and shareholders' equity of $95,193,297 and $115,598,875, respectively. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately through calendar year end 2017. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of our current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan, extend payables and reduce overhead until sufficient additional capital is raised to support further operations. There can be no assurance that such a plan will be successful. 11 Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations We enter into agreements in the normal course of business with contract research organizations for clinical trials and with vendors for preclinical studies and other services and products for operating purposes which are cancelable at any time by us, generally upon 30 days prior written notice. These payments are not included in this table of contractual obligations. We are obligated to make future payments to third parties under in-license agreements, including sublicense fees, royalties and payments that become due and payable on the achievement of certain development and commercialization milestones. As the amount and timing of sublicense fees and the achievement and timing of these milestones are not probable and estimable, such commitments have not been included on our consolidated balance sheets or in the contractual obligations table above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligations under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides us with financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engages in leasing, hedging, or research and development services on our behalf. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures in the financial statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, and changes in the estimate of difference estimates that could have been selected could have material impact in our results of operations or financial condition. While we base our estimates and judgments on our experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results could differ from those estimates and the differences could be material. The most significant estimates impact the following transactions or account balances: stock compensation, warrant liability valuation and impairment of intangibles. See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses significant accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses new accounting pronouncements.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 1 ADVAXIS, INC. STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 2 ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 3 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information Supplemental Schedule of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 4 ADVAXIS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS Advaxis, Inc. ("Advaxis" or the "Company") is a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary Lm-LLO cancer immunotherapies. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes ("Lm" or "Listeria" or "Lm Technology TM") bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-LLO strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. Axalimogene filolisbac ("AXAL") is our lead Lm-LLO immunotherapy product candidate for the treatment of Human Papilloma Virus ("HPV") associated cancers. The Company completed a randomized Phase 2 study in 110 patients with recurrent cervical cancer that was shown to have a manageable safety profile, apparent improved survival and objective tumor responses. In addition, the Gynecologic Oncology Group ("GOG") Foundation, Inc., now part of NRG Oncology, is conducting a cooperative group sponsored Phase 2 open-label clinical study of AXAL in patients with persistent or recurrent cervical cancer with documented disease progression. The study, known as GOG-0265, has successfully completed its first stage and has met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient recruitment. The Company plans to advance this immunotherapy into a registrational clinical trial for the treatment of women with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer. AXAL has received United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") orphan drug designation for three HPV-associated cancers: cervical, head and neck, and anal cancer, and has received European Medicines Agency ("EMA") orphan drug designation for anal cancer. AXAL has been designated by the FDA as a Fast Track product for adjuvant therapy for high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer patients. It has also been classified as an advanced-therapy medicinal product ("ATMP") for the treatment of cervical cancer by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Advanced Therapies ("CAT"). AXAL is subject to an agreement with the FDA, under the Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") process, for the Phase 3 AIM2CERV trial in patients with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer It is being evaluated in Company-sponsored trials executed under an Investigational New Drug ("IND") which include the following: (i) a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with MedImmune, LLC's ("MedImmune") investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736), in patients with previously treated metastatic cervical cancer and HPV-associated head and neck cancer; (ii) a Phase 1/2 study evaluating higher doses and repeat cycles of AXAL in patients with recurrent cervical cancer; (iii) a single arm Phase 2 monotherapy study in patients with metastatic anal cancer; and (iv) a Phase 2 study in collaboration with and funded by Global BioPharma Inc. ("GBP"), under a development and commercialization license agreement applicable to Asia, of AXAL in HPV-associated non-small cell lung cancer. In addition to the Company-sponsored trials, AXAL is also being evaluated in three ongoing investigator-initiated clinical trials as follows: locally advanced cervical cancer (GOG-0265), head and neck cancer (Mount Sinai & Baylor College of Medicine), and anal cancer (Brown University). ADXS-PSA is the Company's Lm-LLO immunotherapy product candidate designed to target the Prostate Specific Antigen ("PSA") associated with prostate cancer which is being evaluated in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck & Co.'s ("Merck") humanized monoclonal antibody against PD-1, in patients with previously treated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. ADXS-HER2 is the Company's Lm-LLO immunotherapy product candidate designed for the treatment of Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 ("HER2") expressing cancers, including human and canine osteosarcoma, breast, gastric and other cancers. ADXS-HER2 is being evaluated in a Phase 1b clinical trial in patients with metastatic HER2 expressing solid tumors. We received orphan drug designation from both the FDA and EMA for ADXS-HER2 in osteosarcoma and have received Fast Track designation from the FDA for patients with newly-diagnosed, non-metastatic, surgically-resectable osteosarcoma. Clinical research with ADXS-HER2 in canine osteosarcoma is being developed by our pet therapeutic partner, Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), who holds exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 and three other Lm-LLO immunotherapies for pet health applications. Aratana has announced that a product license application for use of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of canine osteosarcoma has been filed with the United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA"). Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2016. In October of 2015, the Company received notification from the FDA that the INDs for AXAL were put on clinical hold in response to its submission of a safety report to the FDA. The clinical hold also included the INDs for ADXS-PSA and ADXS-HER2. Following discussions with the FDA and in accordance with their recommendations, the Company agreed to implement certain risk mitigation measures, including revised study protocol inclusion / exclusion criteria, post-administration antibiotic treatment and patient surveillance and monitoring measures. In December 2015, the FDA notified the Company that the hold had been lifted with respect to its INDs. F- 5 The Company has focused its development efforts on establishing a drug development pipeline that incorporates this technology into therapeutic cancer immunotherapies, with clinical trials currently targeting HPV-associated cancer (cervical cancer, head and neck cancer and anal cancer), prostate cancer, and HER2-expressing cancers. Although no immunotherapies have been commercialized to date, the Company continues to invest in research and development to advance the technology and make it available to patients with many different types of cancer. Pipeline development and the further exploration of the technology for advancement entails risk and expense. The Company anticipates that its ongoing operational costs will increase significantly as it continues conducting and expanding its clinical development program. In addition to its existing single antigen vectors that target one tumor associated antigen, the Company is actively engaged in the development of new constructs that will address multiple targets that are common to tumor types, as well as mutation-associated neo-epitopes that are specific to an individual patient's tumor. Lastly, the Company is developing certain internal capabilities to produce supplies for its neoepitope and its other programs. Liquidity and Financial Condition The Company's products are being developed and have not generated significant revenues. As a result, the Company has suffered recurring losses. These losses are expected to continue for an extended period of time. During fiscal 2015, the Company raised gross proceeds of approximately $125.9 million in equity offerings. On August 1, 2016, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement with Amgen Inc. ("Amgen"). In exchange for receiving an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize ADXS-NEO, Amgen made an upfront payment of $40 million and purchased directly from the Company 3,047,446 shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $25 million. On August 19, 2016, the Company sold 2,244,443 shares of common stock in a registered direct offering for gross proceeds of approximately $30.3 million to certain health care specialist investors. The net proceeds to the Company were approximately $28.3 million. As of August 31, 2016, the Company had approximately $162.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on its balance sheet. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately through the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The estimate is based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and the Company could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of its product candidates, the Company is unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of its current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION Basis of Presentation - Unaudited Interim Financial Information The accompanying unaudited interim condensed financial statements and related notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") for interim financial information, and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC with respect to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The unaudited interim condensed financial statements furnished reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to represent a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. These unaudited interim condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended October 31, 2015 and notes thereto contained in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2015, as filed with the SEC on January 8, 2016. The information presented in the accompanying unaudited condensed balance sheet as of October 31, 2015 has been derived from the Company's October 31, 2015 audited financial statements. Revenue Recognition The Company is expected to derive the majority of its revenue from patent licensing. In general, these revenue arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by the Company. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, or upon the final milestones being met, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. The Company recognizes licensing fees when there is persuasive evidence of a licensing arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred and collectability is reasonably assured. An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on the Company's best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the Company's existing license fee receivables, using historical experience. The Company reviews its allowance for doubtful accounts periodically. Past due accounts are reviewed individually for collectability. F- 6 Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. To date, this is yet to occur. If product development is successful, the Company will recognize revenue from royalties based on licensees' sales of its products or products using its technologies. Royalties are recognized as earned in accordance with the contract terms when royalties from licensees can be reasonably estimated and collectability is reasonably assured. If royalties cannot be reasonably estimated or collectability of a royalty amount is not reasonably assured, royalties are recognized as revenue when the cash is received. The Company recognizes revenue from milestone payments received under collaboration agreements when earned, provided that the milestone event is substantive, its achievability was not reasonably assured at the inception of the agreement, the Company has no further performance obligations relating to the event and collection is reasonably assured. If these criteria are not met, the Company recognizes milestone payments ratably over the remaining period of the Company's performance obligations under the collaboration agreement. All milestone payments are recognized in collaborative licensing and development revenue in the Company's statements of operations. Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ substantially from these estimates. Significant estimates include the fair value and recoverability of the carrying value of intangible assets (patents and licenses), the fair value of stock options, the fair value of embedded conversion features, warrants and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from estimates. Reclassifications Certain amounts in the prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the presentation of the current period financial statements. These reclassifications had no effect on the previously reported net loss. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. As of July 31, 2016 and October 31, 2015, the Company had approximately $23.9 million and $62.8 million, respectively, in cash equivalents. Concentration of Credit Risk The Company maintains its cash in bank deposit accounts (checking) that at times exceed federally insured limits. Approximately $27.9 million is subject to credit risk at July 31, 2016. However, these cash balances are maintained at creditworthy financial institutions. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximated fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because of the relatively short maturity dates on these instruments. The carrying amounts of the financing arrangements issued approximate fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because interest rates on these instruments approximate market interest rates after consideration of stated interest rates, anti-dilution protection and associated warrants. Net Loss per Share Basic net income or loss per common share is computed by dividing net income or loss available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share give effect to dilutive options, warrants, convertible debt and other potential Common Stock outstanding during the period. In the case of a net loss the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from warrants, outstanding stock options and convertible debt are not included in the computation of diluted loss per share, as the effect would be anti-dilutive. In the case of net income, the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from these instruments that have intrinsic value are included in the diluted earnings per share. The table sets forth the number of potential shares of Common Stock that have been excluded from diluted net loss per share. F- 7 Stock Based Compensation The Company has an equity plan which allows for the granting of stock options to its employees, directors and consultants for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at date of grant. The Company measures the cost of services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award. For employees and directors, the fair value of the award is measured on the grant date and for non-employees, the fair value of the award is generally measured based on contractual terms. The fair value amount is then recognized over the requisite service period, usually the vesting period, in both research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses on the statement of operations, depending on the nature of the services provided by the employees or consultants. The process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing stock-based compensation cost over the requisite service period involves significant assumptions and judgments. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Model ("BSM") for the remaining awards, which requires that the Company makes certain assumptions regarding: (i) the expected volatility in the market price of its Common Stock; (ii) dividend yield; (iii) risk-free interest rates; and (iv) the period of time employees are expected to hold the award prior to exercise (referred to as the expected holding period). As a result, if the Company revises its assumptions and estimates, stock-based compensation expense could change materially for future grants. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using fair value recognition and records stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings net of the estimated impact of forfeited awards. As such, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost only for those stock-based awards that are estimated to ultimately vest over their requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the individual grants. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, as part of its ongoing efforts to assist in the convergence of GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which is a new standard related to revenue recognition. Under the new standard, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised services or goods in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. The standard must be adopted using either a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or a modified retrospective approach. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers - Deferral of the Effective Date, which defers the implementation of this new standard to be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted effective January 1, 2017. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations, which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, and in May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, which amend certain aspects of the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. We are currently evaluating which transition approach we will utilize and the impact of adopting this accounting standard on our unaudited condensed financial statements. In January 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-01, Income Statement-Extraordinary and Unusual Items. The objective of this Update is to simplify the income statement presentation requirements in Subtopic 225-20 by eliminating the concept of extraordinary items. Extraordinary items are events and transactions that are distinguished by their unusual nature and by the infrequency of their occurrence. Eliminating the extraordinary classification simplifies income statement presentation by altogether removing the concept of extraordinary items from consideration. This Accounting Standards Update is the final version of Proposed Accounting Standards Update 2014-220-Income Statement-Extraordinary Items (Subtopic 225-20), which has been deleted. The amendments in this Update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. This Update is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). The standard amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets and making targeted changes to lessor accounting. ASU 2016-02 will be effective beginning in the first quarter of 2019. Early adoption of ASU 2016-02 is permitted. The new leases standard requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application, with an option to use certain transition relief. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on the Company's financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This ASU makes targeted amendments to the accounting for employee share-based payments. This guidance is to be applied using various transition methods such as full retrospective, modified retrospective, and prospective based on the criteria for the specific amendments as outlined in the guidance. The guidance is effective for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted, as long as all of the amendments are adopted in the same period. The Company has evaluated this standard and has chosen early adoption effective March 30, 2016. This ASU has not had a material impact on the Company's financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. The standard significantly changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that aren't measured at fair value through net income. The standard will replace today's "incurred loss" approach with an "expected loss" model for instruments measured at amortized cost. For available-for-sale debt securities, entities will be required to record allowances rather than reduce the carrying amount, as they do today under the other-than-temporary impairment model. It also simplifies the accounting model for purchased credit-impaired debt securities and loans. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods therein. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods therein. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. F- 8 Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective accounting pronouncements, if adopted, would have a material impact on the accompanying condensed financial statements. 3. INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company's investment securities at amortized cost as of July 31, 2016 and October 31, 2015: All of the Company's investments mature within the next 12 months. 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment consists of the following: Depreciation expense for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015 was $68,457, $163,581, $14,204 and $28,352, respectively. 5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Pursuant to our license agreement with the University of Pennsylvania ("Penn"), the Company is billed actual patent expenses as they are passed through from Penn and are billed directly from our patent attorney. The following is a summary of intangible assets as of the end of the following fiscal periods: F- 9 The expirations of the existing patents range from 2016 to 2032 but the expirations can be extended based on market approval if granted and/or based on existing laws and regulations. Capitalized costs associated with patent applications that are abandoned without future value are charged to expense when the determination is made not to pursue the application. No patent applications with future value were abandoned or expired and charged to expense in the nine months ended July 31, 2016 or 2015. Amortization expense for licensed technology and capitalized patent costs is included in research and development expenses and aggregated $64,440, $183,184, $52,416 and $151,108 for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows: Year ended October 31, 6. ACCRUED EXPENSES: The following table represents the major components of accrued expenses: 7. SHORT-TERM CONVERTIBLE NOTES & FAIR VALUE OF EMBEDDED DERIVATIVE During April 2016, the last remaining promissory note of $29,549 was converted into 1,481 shares of common stock at the $18.75 conversion price per the promissory note agreement. 8. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Warrants A summary of changes in warrants for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 is as follows: At July 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 3.09 million of its total 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as equity (equity warrants). At October 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 3.22 million of its total 3.24 million outstanding warrants classified as equity (equity warrants). At issuance, equity warrants are recorded at their relative fair values, using the Relative Fair Value Method, in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet. The equity warrants can only be settled through the issuance of shares and are not subject to anti-dilution provisions. F- 10 Warrant Liability At July 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 18,000 of its total approximately 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as liabilities (liability warrants). As of October 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 18,000 of its total approximately 3.24 million total warrants classified as liabilities (liability warrants). The Company utilizes the BSM to calculate the fair value of these warrants at issuance and at each subsequent reporting date. The liability warrants contain a cash settlement provision in the event of a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Common Stock purchase warrant). Any changes in the fair value of the warrant liability (i.e. - the total fair value of all outstanding liability warrants at the balance sheet date) between reporting periods will be reported on the statement of operations. At July 31, 2016 and October 31, 2015, the fair value of the warrant liability was $32,997 and $89,211, respectively. For the three months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company reported a gain of $6,340 and $32,384, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. For the nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company reported a gain of $56,214 and a loss of $254,923, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. In determining the fair value of the warrant liability at July 31, 2016 and October 31, 2015, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: Exercise of Warrants During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, warrants to purchase 122,661 shares of common stock were exercised, which resulted in cash proceeds of $614,368. As of July 31, 2016, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 3,110,575 shares of the Company's Common Stock with exercise prices ranging from $3.75 to $18.75 per share. As of July 31, 2016, the aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding warrants was approximately $10,331,000. 9. SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Employment Agreements Management voluntarily purchases restricted stock directly from the Company at market price. The respective stock purchases occur on the last trading day of each month. This voluntary election is outlined in each of Daniel J. O'Connor, Chief Executive Officer and President, Gregory T. Mayes, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Robert G. Petit, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, and Sara M. Bonstein, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, (each an "Executive"), employment agreements. The table below reflects the purchases of each Executive: For the three months ended July 31, 2016, the Company recorded stock compensation expense of $66,413 in the statement of operations for the portion of management salaries voluntarily paid in stock representing 7,843 shares of its Common Stock (5,620 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the three months ended July 31, 2015, the Company recorded a similar stock compensation expense of $60,795 in the statement of operations representing 3,130 shares of its Common Stock (2,346 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the nine months ended July 31, 2016, the Company recorded stock compensation expense of $187,670 in the statement of operations for the portion of management salaries voluntarily paid in stock representing 22,931 shares of its Common Stock (16,352 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the nine months ended July 31, 2015, the Company recorded a similar stock compensation expense of $150,883 in the statement of operations representing 14,435 shares of its Common Stock (12,528 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). F- 11 From 2013 to present, in addition to the purchases of Common Stock set forth in the above table, Mr. O'Connor has also purchased an additional 164,909 shares of Common Stock out of his personal funds at the then market price for an aggregate consideration of $689,004. These purchases consisted of the conversion of amounts due to Mr. O'Connor under a promissory note given by Mr. O'Connor to the Company in 2012 of approximately $66,500 for 21,091 shares, 2013 base salary which he elected to receive in Common Stock of approximately $186,555 for 34,752 shares (21,489 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), 2013 and 2014 cash bonuses voluntarily requested to receive in equity of $214,359 for 62,064 shares (57,990 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), fiscal 2014 voluntary request to purchase stock directly from the Company at market price purchases of $68,750 for 21,687 shares (15,950 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), fiscal 2015 voluntary request to purchase stock directly from the Company at market price purchases of $88,840 for 8,482 shares (7,556 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), and purchases of the Company's Common Stock in the October 2013 and March 2014 public offerings of 13,500 shares for $54,000 and 3,333 shares for $10,000. Executives were entitled to receive a performance-based year-end cash bonus. For the nine months ended July 31, 2015, the executive officers voluntarily elected to receive a portion of their year-end performance bonus (with a total fair value of approximately $418,000) in the aggregate amount of 125,411 shares of the Company's Common Stock (98,603 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) A summary of the Company's RSU activity and related information for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 is as follows: As of July 31, 2016, there was approximately $6,559,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 1.14 years. As of July 31, 2016, the aggregate intrinsic value of non-vested RSUs was approximately $719,000. Employee Stock Awards Common Stock issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements and employee excellence awards totaled 144,213 and 129,154 shares (100,726 shares on a net basis after employee taxes) for the three months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the three months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015 was $1,154,419 and $2,361,716, respectively. Common Stock issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements and employee excellence awards totaled 516,581 shares and 292,832 shares (211,957 shares on a net basis after employee taxes) during the nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015 was $3,887,723 and $3,633,886, respectively. Furthermore, non-executive employees were entitled to receive a performance-based year-end cash bonus. Several non-executive employees voluntarily requested to be paid all or a portion of their cash bonus in the Company's Common Stock instead of cash. During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, the total fair value of these equity purchases were $102,022, or 9,150 shares of the Company's Common Stock. During the nine months ended July 31, 2015, the total fair value of these equity purchases were $67,671, or 20,322 shares of the Company's Common Stock (14,300 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). Director Stock Awards Common stock issued to Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership totaled 31,767 and 23,955 shares for the three months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the three months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015 was $311,205 and $264,552, respectively. Common stock issued to Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership totaled 125,501 and 239,850 shares (226,423 shares on a net basis after taxes) for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015 was $933,615 and $967,631, respectively. Stock Options A summary of changes in the stock option plan for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 is as follows: F- 12 Total compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options, recognized in the statement of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, was approximately $3,108,000 and $1,959,000, respectively. For the nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options was approximately $13,060,000 and $6,824,000, respectively. During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, 1,385,000 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of approximately $14,838,000. During the nine months ended July 31, 2015, 1,618,995 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of approximately $28,318,000. As of July 31, 2016, there was approximately $21,496,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 1.20 years. As of July 31, 2016, the aggregate intrinsic value of vested and exercisable options was approximately $66,000. In determining the fair value of the stock options granted during the nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: Shares Issued to Consultants During the three months ended July 31, 2016, 31,030 shares of Common Stock valued at $252,000 were issued to consultants for services, of which $40,000 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $156,700 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. During the three months ended July 31, 2015, 75,628 shares of Common Stock valued at $1,390,107 were issued to consultants for services. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, 120,047 shares of Common Stock valued at $1,097,088 were issued to consultants for services, of which $55,000 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $156,700 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. During the nine months ended July 31, 2015, 319,278 shares of Common Stock valued at $3,768,014 were issued to consultants for services. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense included in the Statement of Operations by expense category for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively: F- 13 10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES: Legal Proceedings Knoll On August 21, 2015, Knoll Capital Management L.P. ("KCM") filed a complaint against the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The complaint alleges the existence of an oral agreement for the purchase by Knoll from the Company of 1,666,666.67 shares of Company stock at a price of $3.00 per share. KCM alleges that the Company breached this alleged agreement and seeks specific performance or, alternatively, money damages for breach of contract. KCM served the Company with the complaint on August 31, 2015, and then served an amended complaint on October 16, 2015. The Company moved to dismiss the amended complaint on October 26, 2015 and that motion was denied on January 29, 2016. The Company filed an answer to the amended complaint on February 12, 2016. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously. Larkin and Bono On July 27, 2015, a derivative complaint was filed by a purported Company shareholder in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against certain of the Company's officers and directors styled Timothy Larkin v. O'Connor, et al., Case No. 11338-CB (Del. Ch. July 27, 2015) (the "Larkin Action"). The Larkin Action was brought derivatively on behalf of the Company, which is also named as a nominal defendant. On August 20, 2015, a related derivative complaint was filed by a purported Company shareholder in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against the same defendants styled David Bono v. O'Connor, et al., Case No. 3:15-CV-006326-FLW-DEA (D.N.J. Aug. 20, 2015) (the "Bono Action"). Both complaints are based on general allegations related to certain stock options granted to the individual defendants and generally allege counts for breaches of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment. The Bono complaint alleges additional claims for violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and for waste of corporate assets. Both complaints seek damages and costs of an unspecified amount, disgorgement of compensation obtained by the individual defendants, and injunctive relief. Defendants filed motions to dismiss in both actions. On March 22, 2016, the Delaware Court of Chancery issued a partial ruling on the motion to dismiss in the Larkin Action. The court denied the motion to dismiss as to the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claim against the three members of the Compensation Committee, but expressly reserved ruling on the disclosure claim against all defendants and the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the other eight individual defendants. On May 23, 2016, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey issued an opinion and order granting in part and denying in part defendants' motion to dismiss. The court denied the motion to dismiss as to the breach of fiduciary duty claim and unjust enrichment claim against the three members of the Compensation Committee, but dismissed without prejudice the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the other eight individual defendants. The court dismissed without prejudice the Section 14(a) disclosure claim and waste claims against all defendants. At this stage of each proceeding, the Company does not express any opinion as to the likely outcome, but the Company intends to defend each action vigorously. The Company is from time to time involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. The Company does not believe that any of these claims and proceedings against it is likely to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Clinical Trial Collaboration Agreement On February 3, 2016, the Company entered into a Co-Development and Commercialization Agreement (the "Agreement") with Especificos Stendhal SA de CV ("Stendhal"), for Advaxis' lead Lm Technology immunotherapy, AXAL, in HPV-associated cancers. Under the terms of the Agreement, Stendhal will pay $10 million towards the expense of AIM2CERV, a planned global Phase 3 clinical trial in women with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer. This payment will be made over the duration of the trial and covers a significant portion of the total planned study costs. Stendhal will also work with the Company to complete the clinical trial of AXAL in Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and other investigational sites in Latin American countries. Stendhal will manage and is responsible for the costs associated with the regulatory approval process, promotion, commercialization and market access for AXAL in these markets. Upon approval and commercialization of AXAL, Advaxis and Stendhal will share profits on a pre-determined basis. Operating Leases The Company's corporate offices are currently located at 305 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. Effective February 1, 2016, the Company entered into an amendment to its office lease. On August 29, 2016, the Company entered into a second amendment to its office lease that will become effective January 1, 2017. The first and second amendments increased the leased space by approximately 25,000 and 4,000 square feet respectively, to a total of approximately 48,500 square feet. The additional space will allow the Company to expand manufacturing, testing, and product development capabilities, accelerate execution of pipeline related projects, strengthen the supply chain, and continue to ensure reliable and cost competitive supply of product. The lease term was extended by three years and is now scheduled to expire on November 30, 2025. The Company paid an additional security deposit of $100,061. The amended lease requires an annual rent of approximately $962,000 with annual increases in increments between 2% and 11% throughout the remainder of the lease. The lease amendment contains a six month rent abatement period that ran from February 2016 to July 2016, and a reduced lease rate for four months starting in August 2016. Rent expense will be recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. After the second amendment, the Company is entitled upwards to a $439,575 tenant improvement allowance for leasehold improvements. As of July 31, 2016, the tenant improvement allowance used was $378,795 and was recorded both as a leasehold improvement and a lease incentive obligation on the Company's balance sheet. The Company plans to continue to rent necessary offices and laboratories to support its business. F- 14 Future minimum payments of the Company's operating leases are as follows: Year ended October 31, 11. FAIR VALUE The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or the most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Market participants are buyers and sellers in the principal market that are (i) independent, (ii) knowledgeable, (iii) able to transact, and (iv) willing to transact. The guidance describes a fair value hierarchy based on the levels of inputs, of which the first two are considered observable and the last unobservable, that may be used to measure fair value which are the following: Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2- Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or corroborated by observable market data or substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the value of the assets or liabilities. The following table provides the liabilities carried at fair value measured on a recurring basis as of July 31, 2016 and October 31, 2015: Common stock warrant liability: 12. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On August 1, 2016, the Company entered into a global agreement (the "Agreement") with Amgen for the development and commercialization of the Company's ADXS-NEO, a novel, preclinical investigational immunotherapy, using the Company's proprietary Listeria monocytogenes attenuated bacterial vector which activates a patient's immune system to respond against unique mutations, or neoepitopes, contained in and identified from an individual patient's tumor. Under the terms of the Agreement, Amgen receives an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize ADXS-NEO. Amgen made an upfront payment to Advaxis of $40 million and purchased $25 million of Advaxis common stock. Advaxis and Amgen will collaborate through a joint steering committee for the development and commercialization of ADXS-NEO. Under the Agreement, Amgen will fund the clinical development and commercialization of ADXS-NEO and Advaxis will retain manufacturing responsibilities. Advaxis will also receive development, regulatory and sales milestone payments of up to $475 million and high single digit to mid-double digit royalty payments based on worldwide sales. In connection with the Agreement, Amgen purchased directly from Advaxis 3,047,446 shares of the Company's Common Stock, at approximately $8.20 per share (representing a purchase at market using a 20 day VWAP methodology). The gross proceeds to Advaxis from the sale of the shares was $25 million. On August 19, 2016, the Company sold 2,244,443 shares of common stock in a registered direct offering at a per share price of $13.50 for gross proceeds of approximately $30.3 million. The net proceeds to the Company, after deducting the Placement Agents' fees and other estimated offering expenses payable by the Company, were approximately $28.3 million. F- 15 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements as a result of many known or unknown factors, including, but not limited to, those factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and incorporated by reference herein. See also the "Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" set forth at the beginning of this report. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the unaudited consolidated financial statements, and the related footnotes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this report, and in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis and the audited consolidated financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2015. Overview We are a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary Lm-LLO cancer immunotherapies. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-LLO strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. AXAL Franchise AXAL is an Lm-LLO immunotherapy directed against HPV and designed to target cells expressing the HPV. It is currently under investigation or planned investigation in four HPV-associated cancers: cervical cancer, head and neck cancer, anal cancer, and lung cancer, either as a monotherapy or in combination. Cervical Cancer There are 527,624 new cases of cervical cancer caused by HPV worldwide every year, and 14,377 new cases in the U.S. alone, according to the WHO Human Papillomavirus and Related Cancers in the World Summary Report 2014 ("WHO"). Current preventative vaccines cannot protect the 20 million women who are already infected with HPV. Challenges with acceptance, accessibility, and compliance have resulted in approximately a third of young women being vaccinated in the United States and even less in other countries around the world. We completed a randomized Phase 2 clinical study (Lm-LLO-E7-15), conducted exclusively in India, in 110 women with recurrent/refractory cervical cancer. The final results were presented at the 2014 American Society of Clinical Oncology ("ASCO") Annual Meeting, and showed that 32% (35/109) of patients were alive at 12 months, 22% (24/109) of patients were Long-term Survivors ("LTS") alive greater than 18 months, and 18% (16/91) evaluable with adequate follow-up) of patients were alive for more than 24 months. Of the 109 patients treated in the study, LTS included not only patients with tumor shrinkage but also patients who had experienced stable disease or increased tumor burden. 17% (19/109) of the patients in the trial had recurrence of disease after at least two prior treatments for their cervical cancer; these patients comprised 8% (2/24) of LTS. Among the LTS, 25% (3/12) of patients had a baseline ECOG performance status of 2, a patient population that is often times excluded from clinical trials. Furthermore, a 10% objective response rate (including 5 complete responses and 6 partial responses) and a disease control rate of 38% (42/109) were observed. The addition of cisplatin chemotherapy to AXAL in this study did not significantly improve overall survival or objective tumor response (p =0.9981). In this study, 109 patients received 254 doses of AXAL. AXAL was found to be well tolerated with 38% (41/109) of patients experiencing mild to moderate Grade 1 or 2 transient adverse events associated with infusion; 1 patient experienced a Grade 3 Serious Adverse Events ("SAE"). All observed treatment related adverse events either self-resolved or responded readily to symptomatic treatment. We have reached an agreement with the FDA, under the Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") process, for a Phase 3 trial evaluating AXAL in patients with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer. We plan to initiate, in collaboration with the GOG/NRG Oncology, an independent international non-profit organization with the purpose of promoting excellence in the quality and integrity of clinical and basic scientific research in the field of gynecologic malignancies, a Phase 3 clinical trial in cervical cancer ("AIM2CERV" or "Advaxis Immunotherapy 2 Prevent Cervical Recurrence") in 2016 to support a Biologics License Application ("BLA") submission in the U.S. and in other territories around the world. AIM2CERV will be a Phase 3 study of adjuvant AXAL, following primary treatment with chemoradiation, in patients with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer compared to placebo alone. This study will evaluate both the time it takes for the cancer to recur as well as the overall survival. Our goal is to develop a treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of recurrence of cervical cancer after primary treatment interventions. 4 Biocon Limited ("Biocon"), our co-development and commercialization partner for AXAL in India and key emerging markets, filed a Marketing Authorization Application ("MAA") for licensure of this immunotherapy in India. The Drug Controller General of India ("DCGI") accepted this MAA for review. The filing of the MAA was driven by several factors: (i) results from the Lm-LLO-E7-15 Phase 2 trial indicated that AXAL was well tolerated and showed significant clinical activity in recurrent/refractory cervical cancer; (ii) cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among Indian women (according to WHO, there are 122,844 new cases per year with 67,544 deaths reported); and (iii) current treatment options for non-operable refractory/recurrent disease are limited in India. As part of the MAA review process, Biocon met with the Scientific Expert Committee (the "Committee"). The Committee indicated that proof of concept for this novel immunotherapy has been established. The Committee advised Biocon to obtain data from a Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with recurrent cervical cancer who have failed prior chemo and radiation therapy. The face-to-face interaction with the Committee provided Biocon and Advaxis with valuable insight for future development and the companies are evaluating next steps. We are conducting a Phase 1/2 trial evaluating higher doses and repeat cycles of AXAL in patients with recurrent cervical cancer. This study successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x10 9 CFU and 1x10 10 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The Company believes it has gained a sufficient understanding of the safety profile of higher dose levels based on result from this as well as other ongoing Advaxis studies. As a result, the Company has elected not to enroll any additional patients into this study. We have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune, the global biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca, and are conducting a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two-part study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of our investigational Lm -LLO cancer immunotherapy, AXAL, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab, as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck ("SCCHN"). For the AXAL and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, the second dose-escalation cohort has been completed and we have commenced enrollment in the Part A and B expansion phases. With respect to the dose-escalation portion of this study, five patients were enrolled to Cohort 1 (AXAL at 1x10 9 CFU with 3mg/kg of durvalumab). Three of these five patients received less than three doses of AXAL due to the clinical hold. Following the clinical hold, five patients were enrolled into Cohort 2 (AXAL at 1x10 9 CFU with 10mg/kg of durvalumab). The GOG Foundation, Inc. (now a member of NRG Oncology), under the sponsorship of the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program ("CTEP") of the National Cancer Institute ("NCI"), is independently conducting GOG-0265, an open-label, single arm Phase 2 study of AXAL in persistent or recurrent cervical cancer (patients must have received at least 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of their recurrent/metastatic disease, not including that administered as a component of primary treatment) at 21 clinical sites in the U.S. The first stage of enrollment in GOG-0265 has successfully been completed with 26 patients treated and has met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient enrollment. Clinical data from the first stage of GOG-0265 was presented at the American Gynecological & Obstetrical Society ("AGOS") annual meeting on September 17, 2015. Overall survival at 12 months was 38.5% (10/26) (the predefined criteria for 12-month survival was 20%), and, among patients who had received the full treatment regimen of 3 doses of AXAL, the 12-month survival rate was 55.6% (10/18). The adverse events observed in the first stage of the study have been consistent with those reported in other clinical studies with AXAL. It was well-tolerated, with Grade 1-2 fatigue, chills, and fever the most commonly reported Adverse Events ("AE"); six patients experienced a treatment-related Grade 3 or Grade 4 AE, which was considered possibly-related to AXAL. The second stage of the study began enrollment in February 2015 and includes a protocol amendment to allow patients to continue to receive repeat cycles of therapy until disease progression. Stage 2 enrollment ceased upon the clinical hold in October 2015. Patients enrolled in Stage 2 are available for evaluation, however, Advaxis and the GOG Foundation/NRG Oncology agreed to re-enroll a new cohort of Stage 2 patients to GOG-0265 in order to obtain a complete cohort of data for Stage 2 and final analysis. Stage 2 enrollment is expected to begin in early calendar Q4 2016. Preliminary findings from patients initially enrolled in Stage 2 of GOG-0265, noting data generally consistent with findings in Stage 1 despite a more heavily bevacizumab pre-treated population, were presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology ("ASCO") annual meeting. AXAL has received FDA orphan drug designation for invasive Stage II-IV cervical cancer, and has received Fast Track designation from the FDA for high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer patients. AXAL has also been classified as an advanced-therapy medicinal product ("ATMP") for the treatment of cervical cancer by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Advanced Therapies ("CAT"). Head and Neck Cancer SCCHN is the most frequently occurring malignant tumor of the head and neck and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. More than 90% of SCCHNs originate from the mucosal linings of the oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx and 60-80% of these cancers are caused by HPV. According to the American Cancer Society, head and neck cancer accounts for about 3% to 5% of all cancers in the United States with an increasing incidence of HPV-associated head and neck cancers. Approximately 12,000 new cases will be diagnosed in the United Stated in 2016 according to the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results ("SEER") database. The safety and immunogenicity of AXAL is being evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND at Mount Sinai and Baylor College of Medicine in a pre-surgery "window of opportunity" trial in patients with HPV-positive head and neck cancer. This clinical trial is the first study to evaluate the immunologic and pathologic effects of AXAL in patients when they are initially diagnosed with HPV-associated head and neck cancer. Preliminary clinical data from this trial was presented at the American Association of Cancer Research ("AACR") annual meeting on April 18, 2016. The data presented showed that, among the eight enrolled AXAL - treated patients, HPV E7- and/or E6-specific T cell responses increased in the peripheral blood in five of the study patients. Increased infiltration of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were observed in the Tumor Immune Microenvironment ("TME") of four patients, with a reduction of FOXP3+ regulatory T cells within the tumors of 3/6 patients. Increased T cell responses to HPV E6 supports enhanced immune activity against additional tumor targets. Changes to the TME included cytotoxic T cell infiltration into the post-resection tumor, increased immune activation, a reduction of regulatory T cells, infiltration of cytotoxic T cells, and increased expression of inflammatory activation markers. In addition, fluctuations of circulating serum cytokine (IL-15, IL-9, TNfa, IL-2 and MIP-1b) levels were observed potentially suggesting consumption by activated T cells and migration of T cells to the TME. This study met its Stage 1 primary objective and is now advancing into the second stage of the clinical study. The study is designed to show that AXAL is highly immunogenic and worth further investigation if the overall rate of vaccine-induced T-cell responses is 75 percent or more. The assessment based on data from eight of the anticipated nine patients to be enrolled in Stage 1 confirmed that the study met the target for the overall rate of vaccine-induced T-cell response. Stage 2 of the clinical study will enroll up to 13 patients with late-stage HPV-associated oropharyngeal cancer. 5 As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to collaborate on a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of durvalumab (MEDI4736) in combination with AXAL as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. AXAL has received FDA orphan drug designation for HPV-associated head and neck cancer. Anal Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, nearly all squamous cell anal cancers are linked to infection by HPV, the same virus that causes cervical cancer. According to the SEER database, approximately 7,500 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016. The safety and efficacy of AXAL is being evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND by Brown University in patients with high-risk locally advanced anal cancer. Preliminary data indicates all patients who have completed the treatment regimen have experienced a six-month complete response, with no disease recurrence. In consideration of these preliminary data, the investigator at Brown University is evaluating the opportunity to transition this study into a NCI-funded cooperative group trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of AXAL in a pivotal Phase 2/3 anal cancer trial, to be conducted by NRG Oncology. In advance of the foregoing, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group ("RTOG") Foundation for the conduct of such study. We are conducting a Phase 2 multi-center, open-label, two-stage study ("FAWCETT" or "Fighting Anal-Cancer with CTL Enhancing Tumor Therapy"), testing AXAL in patients with persistent or recurrent metastatic anal cancer. FAWCETT is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of AXAL as a monotherapy in patients with HPV-associated metastatic anal cancer who have received at least one prior treatment regimen for the advanced disease. Stage 1 of the trial will enroll 31 patients with anal cancer whose disease recurred after receiving treatment. Patients will receive AXAL 1x109 CFU doses every three weeks for up to two years. AXAL has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for anal cancer. Lung Cancer Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Taiwan, China, and worldwide. Histologically, Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer ("NSCLC"), including squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, and large cell carcinoma, comprises more than 80% of lung cancers. Cigarette smoking is the primary risk factor and accounts for approximately 85% of all lung cancer cases. For those who have never smoked, HPV infection is considered to be an important cause of lung cancer in Asia. In a recent international pooled analysis of data on HPV-associated lung cancers, the prevalence in Asia was found to be 5% of all lung cancers. GBP, our development and commercialization partner in Asia, is planning to conduct a randomized Phase 2, open-label, controlled study in HPV-associated NSCLC in patients following first-line induction chemotherapy. Pending Taiwanese FDA approval, the study is planned to initiate in 2016 and will enroll up to 124 patients. This trial will be fully funded exclusively by GBP. ADXS-PSA Franchise Prostate Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer is the second most common type of cancer found in American men. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in men, behind only lung cancer. One man in seven will get prostate cancer during his lifetime, and one man in 36 will die of this disease. About 210,000 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016 according to the SEER database. ADXS-PSA is an Lm-LLO immunotherapy designed to target the PSA antigen commonly overexpressed in prostate cancer. We have entered into a clinical trial collaboration and supply agreement with Merck & Co. ("Merck") to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, we successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x10 9 CFU and 1x10 10 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The Company believes it has gained a sufficient understanding of the safety profile of higher dose levels based on result from this as well as other ongoing Advaxis studies. Additional patients at the 1x10 9 CFU dose level will be enrolled to complete the dose escalation phase of the study. After ensuring adequate safety of this dose in the prostate cancer patient population, the study will proceed into the combination phase. 6 ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 Expressing Solid Tumors HER2 is overexpressed in a percentage of solid tumors such as breast, gastric, bladder, brain, pancreatic, ovarian and osteosarcoma. According to the SEER database and recent published literature, the percentage of HER2 expression varies by cancer type, with approximately 70,000 new cases of invasive HER2 positive breast cancer diagnosed each year in the US; approximately 5,000 new cases of HER2 positive gastric cancer; approximately 22,000 new cases of HER2 positive bladder cancer; approximately 20,000 new cases of HER2 positive pancreatic cancer; approximately 2,500 new cases of HER2 positive ovarian cancer; and approximately 600 new cases of HER2 positive osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 is an Lm-LLO immunotherapy designed to target HER2 expressing solid tumors such as human and canine osteosarcoma, breast, gastric and other cancers. The FDA has cleared our IND application and we have initiated a Phase 1b study in patients with metastatic HER2-expressing cancers. Thereafter, we intend to initiate a clinical development program with ADXS-HER2 for the treatment of pediatric osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma Osteosarcoma affects about 400 children and teens in the U.S. every year, representing a small but significant unmet medical need that has seen little therapeutic improvement in decades. Osteosarcoma is considered a rare disease and may qualify for regulatory incentives including, but not limited to, orphan drug designation, patent term extension, market exclusivity, and development grants. Given the limited availability of new treatment options for osteosarcoma, and that it is an unmet medical need affecting a very small number of patients in the U.S. annually, we believe that, subject to regulatory approval, the potential to be on the market may be accelerated. Based on encouraging data discussed below from a veterinarian clinical study in which pet dogs with naturally occurring osteosarcoma were treated with ADXS-HER2, we intend to initiate a clinical development program with ADXS-HER2 for the treatment of human osteosarcoma. Both veterinary and human osteosarcoma specialists consider canine osteosarcoma to be the best model for human osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for osteosarcoma and has received Fast Track designation from the FDA for patients with newly-diagnosed, non-metastatic, surgically-resectable osteosarcoma. Canine Osteosarcoma Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone tumor in dogs, accounting for roughly 85% of tumors on the canine skeleton. Approximately 10,000 dogs a year (predominately middle to older-aged dogs and larger breeds) are diagnosed with osteosarcoma in the United States. This cancer initially presents as lameness and oftentimes visible swelling on the leg. Current standard of care treatment is amputation immediately after diagnosis, followed by chemotherapy. Median survival time with standard of care is ten to twelve months. For dogs that cannot undergo amputation, palliative radiation and analgesics are frequently employed and median survival times range from three to five months. Under the direction of Dr. Nicola Mason, the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine is conducting studies in companion dogs evaluating the safety and efficacy of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of naturally occurring canine osteosarcoma. In the initial study, the primary endpoint was to determine the maximum tolerated dose of ADXS-HER2. Secondary endpoints for the study were progression-free survival and overall survival. The findings of the Phase 1 clinical trial in dogs with osteosarcoma suggest that ADXS-HER2 is safe and well tolerated at doses up to 3.3 x 10 9 CFU with no evidence of significant cardiac, hematological, or other systemic toxicities. The study determined that ADXS-HER2 is able to delay or prevent metastatic disease and significantly prolong overall survival in dogs with osteosarcoma that had minimal residual disease following standard of care (amputation and follow-up chemotherapy). This work was recently published in the March 2016 issue of Clinical Cancer Research. Dogs receiving ADXS-HER2 following standard of care (n=18) had a progression free survival of 615 days and a median survival time of 956 days. These results compared favorably to a historical control group where the median survival time was 423 days. A second study conducted by Dr. Mason has evaluated the effects of combination palliative radiation with ADXS-HER2 on dogs with primary osteosarcoma who were unsuitable for amputation (n=15). Preliminary data was presented at the 2015 ACVIM Forum and showed that repeat doses of ADXS-HER2 administered after palliative radiation were well tolerated with no systemic or cardiac toxicity. In long-term follow-up, several dogs have experienced prolonged survival times ranging from 18 to 28 months. On March 19, 2014, we entered into a definitive Exclusive License Agreement with Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), where we granted Aratana an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, certain of our proprietary technology that enables Aratana to develop and commercialize animal health products that will be targeted for treatment of osteosarcoma and other cancer indications in animals. A product license request has been filed by Aratana for ADXS-HER2 (also known as AT-014 by Aratana) for the treatment of canine osteosarcoma with the USDA. Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2016. Aratana has been granted exclusive worldwide rights by us to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 in animals. Aratana is further responsible for the conduct of clinical research with ADXS-Survivin in canine/feline lymphoma, as well as pending investigations of two additional Advaxis constructs in animals. 7 ADXS-NEO Franchise (preclinical) In August 2016, we entered into a global agreement (the "Agreement") with Amgen for the development and commercialization of ADXS-NEO, a novel, preclinical investigational cancer immunotherapy treatment, using our proprietary Lm Technology attenuated bacterial vector which activates a patient's immune system to respond against multiple potential unique mutations, or neoepitopes, contained in and identified from an individual patient's tumor through DNA sequencing. In February 2016, we had a productive pre-IND meeting with the FDA. Following this meeting, we intend to file an IND application for ADXS-NEO and to initiate Company-sponsored studies, as well as external collaborations, under a program entitled "MINE " (My Immunotherapy Neo-Epitopes). The goal of MINE is to use our Lm Technology cancer immunotherapy technology to develop neo-epitope immunotherapies based on an individual patient's tumor ("ADXS-NEO"). MINE will first focus on a preclinical study of our new construct approach to evaluate the immunologic effects and anti-tumor activity of a personalized immunotherapy in a mouse tumor model. We will use learnings from the MINE collaboration to identify and target neoepitopes using Lm-LLO technology and later develop patient specific immunotherapy constructs that incorporate the neoepitope sequences identified in the patient's tumor cells. Clinical studies using ADXS-NEO are in development. Further, we have entered into a research collaboration with Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center ("MSK") to advance the study of neoepitope-based, personalized cancer therapy. ADXS-TNBC Franchise (preclinical) We are developing a construct that targets antigens found in to Triple-Negative Breast Cancer ("TNBC"), which accounts for approximately 15-20% of all diagnosed breast cancer cases and has not been amenable to targeted therapies directed toward estrogen, progesterone, or HER2 receptors. A majority of TNBC patients' still exhibit poor outcomes, with only 30-45% of patients achieving a pathological complete response from conventional chemotherapeutic and radiation therapy. The heterogeneous nature of this cancer type, the presence of mutations in multiple pathways, and the development of resistance to single agents make combination therapy much more attractive and suggest the need for agents that address more than one antigen/target. Lm-LLO Combination Franchise AXAL and Durvalumab As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to conduct a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of our investigational Lm-LLO cancer immunotherapy, AXAL, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736) for the treatment of patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. For the AXAL and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, the second dose-escalation cohort has been completed and we have commenced enrollment in the Part A and B expansion phases. With respect to the dose-escalation portion of this study, five patients were enrolled to Cohort 1 (AXAL at 1x10 9 CFU with 3mg/kg of durvalumab). Three of these five patients received less than three doses of AXAL due to the clinical hold. Following the clinical hold, five patients were enrolled into Cohort 2 (AXAL at 1x10 9 CFU with 10mg/kg of durvalumab). ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab ) As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with Merck to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, we successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x10 9 CFU and 1x10 10 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The Company believes it has gained a sufficient understanding of the safety profile of higher dose levelsbased on result from this as well as other ongoing Advaxis studies. Additional patients at the 1x10 9 CFU dose level will be enrolled to complete the dose escalation phase of the study. After ensuring adequate safety of this dose in the prostate cancer patient population, the study will proceed into the combination phase. Lm-LLO Immunotherapy (preclinical) We are developing other ways to exploit the potential of our Lm Technology including, but not limited to, the use of Lm Technology in Infectious Disease. We have various preclinical collaborations with academic and other centers of excellence. 8 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JULY 31, 2016 AND 2015 Revenue We did not record any revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2016 or 2015. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expense was approximately $10.1 million for the three months ended July 31, 2016, compared with approximately $7.3 million for the three months ended July 31, 2015, an increase of approximately $2.8 million. The increase was a result of higher third-party costs, specifically related to AXAL support in manufacturing and clinical trial expenses, for the Anal, Head & Neck, High Dose, Prostate and Cervical Cancer programs, as well as ADXS-PSA Phase 1/2 trial support. Furthermore, the increase was also a result of an increased number of employees to support the research and development initiatives. We anticipate a significant increase in research and development expenses as a result of our intended expanded development and commercialization efforts primarily related to clinical trials and product development. In addition, we expect to incur expenses in the development of strategic and other relationships required to license, manufacture and distribute our product candidates when they are approved. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expenses were approximately $6.4 million for the three months ended July 31, 2016, compared with approximately $6.3 million for the three months ended July 31, 2015, an increase of approximately $0.1 million. Increases in both the number of employees and facilities costs that resulted from an expansion in laboratory and office space were offset by a decrease of approximately $0.7 million in non-cash investor relations costs. Interest Income Interest income was $73,872 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, compared with $34,869 for the three months ended July 31, 2015. Interest income earned for the three months ended July 31, 2016 reflected interest income earned on the Company's held-to-maturity investments and savings account balance. Interest income earned for the three months ended July 31, 2015 reflected interest income earned on the Company's savings account balance. Changes in Fair Values For the three months ended July 31, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $6,340 due to a decrease in the fair value of liability warrants as a smaller range of share prices used in the calculation of the BSM volatility input offset a modest increase in our share price from $7.74 at April 30, 2016 to $8.34 at July 31, 2016. For the three months ended July 31, 2015, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $32,384 due to an decrease in the fair value of liability warrants primarily resulting from a slight decrease in our share price from $16.81 at April 30, 2015 to $16.66 at July 31, 2015 in addition to a smaller range of share prices used in the calculation of the BSM volatility input. 9 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED JULY 31, 2016 AND 2015 Revenue During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, the Company recorded revenue of $250,000 due to the receipt of an annual exclusive license fee from GBP for the development and commercialization of AXAL. We did not record any revenue for the nine months ended July 31, 2015. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expense was $32.0 million for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, compared with $17.2 million for the nine months ended July 31, 2015, an increase of $14.8 million. The increase was a result of higher third-party costs, specifically related to AXAL support in manufacturing and clinical trial expenses, for the Anal, Head & Neck, High Dose, Prostate and Cervical Cancer programs, as well as ADXS-PSA Phase 1/2 trial support. Stock based compensation for existing and past employees increased by approximately $3.1 million due to increases in the number of awards. Moreover, the increase was also a result of an increased number of employees to support the research and development initiatives. We anticipate a significant increase in research and development expenses as a result of our intended expanded development and commercialization efforts primarily related to clinical trials and product development. In addition, we expect to incur expenses in the development of strategic and other relationships required to license, manufacture and distribute our product candidates when they are approved. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expense was $20.4 million for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, compared with $17.1 million for the nine months ended July 31, 2015, an increase of $3.3 million. There was an increase of approximately $4.5 million in compensation related expense, including a non-cash increase in stock based compensation costs of approximately $3.0 million, attributable to increases in our employees, the grant date fair value of stock awards and the number of awards. This was partially offset by a decrease in non-cash investor relations costs of approximately $1.6 million. Interest Income Interest income was $216,061 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, compared with $55,608 for the nine months ended July 31, 2015. Interest income earned for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 reflected interest income earned on the Company's held-to-maturity investments and savings account balance. Interest income earned for the nine months ended July 31, 2015 reflected interest income earned on the Company's savings account balance. Changes in Fair Values For the nine months ended July 31, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $56,214 due to a decrease in the fair value of liability warrants as a smaller range of share prices were used in the calculation of the BSM volatility input as well as a decrease in our share price from $11.09 at October 31, 2015 to $8.34 at July 31, 2016. For the nine months ended July 31, 2015, the Company recorded non-cash expense from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $254,923 due to an increase in the fair value of liability warrants primarily resulting from a larger range of share prices used in the calculation of the BSM volatility input, as well as a significant increase in our share price from $3.18 at October 31, 2014 to $16.66 at July 31, 2015. This was partially offset by the expiration of some warrants. Other Expense During the nine months ended July 31, 2015, we recorded debt conversion expense of $6,599 as a result of inducing certain noteholders to convert their convertible promissory notes into common shares by offering conversion prices at a discount from the market price of the common stock. Income Tax Expense During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, we paid $50,000 in Taiwanese withholding taxes in connection with the revenue generated from an annual exclusive license fee from GBP. The taxes paid were offset by receipt of a net cash amount of $35,774 in excess of what was recorded as Income Tax Receivable at October 31, 2015 from the sale of our state NOLs and research and development tax credits for the period ended October 31, 2014. 10 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our major sources of cash have been proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock, option and warrant exercises, and interest income. From October 2013 through August 2016, we raised approximately $221.8 million in gross proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock. We have not yet commercialized any drug, and we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approvals for our drug, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations, successfully compete with other available treatment options in the marketplace, overcome any clinical holds that the FDA may impose and successfully manufacture and commercialize our drug alone or in partnership. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even after we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates. As of August 31, 2016, the Company had approximately $162.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on its balance sheet. We believe our current cash position is sufficient to fund our business plan approximately through the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The actual amount of cash that we will need to operate is subject to many factors. Since our inception through July 31, 2016, the Company has reported accumulated net losses of approximately $186.0 million and recurring negative cash flows from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future. Cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 was approximately $31.1 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and Research and Development (R&D) tax credits of approximately $1.6 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2015 was approximately $15.1 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and R&D tax credits of approximately $1.7 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 was approximately $6.2 million resulting from investments in held-to-maturity investments, purchases of property and equipment, construction of cleanroom and laboratory facilities, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2015 was approximately $842,000 resulting from purchases of property and equipment, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 was approximately $528,000, resulting from approximately $614,000 in proceeds received on option and warrant exercises. This was partially offset by approximately $86,000 in taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2015 was approximately $95.5 million, resulting primarily from registered direct offerings of 7,008,896 shares of our Common Stock resulting in net proceeds of $38.1 million and a public offering of 2,800,000 shares of Common Stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $56.7 million. In addition, the Company received $2.4 million from the proceeds received on option and warrant exercises. This was partially offset by approximately $1.7 million in taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Our capital resources and operations to date have been funded primarily with the proceeds from public, private equity and debt financings, NOL tax sales and income earned on investments and grants. We have sustained losses from operations in each fiscal year since our inception, and we expect losses to continue for the indefinite future, due to the substantial investment in research and development. As of July 31, 2016 and October 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $186,003,988 and $134,054,259, respectively and shareholders' equity of $83,599,966 and $115,598,875, respectively. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately through calendar year end 2018. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of our current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan, extend payables and reduce overhead until sufficient additional capital is raised to support further operations. There can be no assurance that such a plan will be successful. 11 Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations We enter into agreements in the normal course of business with contract research organizations for clinical trials and with vendors for preclinical studies and other services and products for operating purposes which are cancelable at any time by us, generally upon 30 days prior written notice. These payments are not included in this table of contractual obligations. We are obligated to make future payments to third parties under in-license agreements, including sublicense fees, royalties and payments that become due and payable on the achievement of certain development and commercialization milestones. As the amount and timing of sublicense fees and the achievement and timing of these milestones are not probable and estimable, such commitments have not been included on our consolidated balance sheets or in the contractual obligations table above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any transactions with unconsolidated entities whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligations under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides us with financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support, or engages in leasing, hedging, or research and development services on our behalf. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures in the financial statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, and changes in the estimate of difference estimates that could have been selected could have material impact in our results of operations or financial condition. While we base our estimates and judgments on our experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results could differ from those estimates and the differences could be material. The most significant estimates impact the following transactions or account balances: stock compensation, warrant liability valuation and impairment of intangibles. See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses significant accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses new accounting pronouncements.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 1 ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 2 ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 3 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information Supplemental Schedule of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 4 ADVAXIS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS Advaxis, Inc. ("Advaxis" or the "Company") is a clinical stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary Lm-based antigen delivery system. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes ("Lm" or "Listeria" or "Lm TechnologyTM") bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-based strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. Axalimogene filolisbac is our lead Lm based product candidate for the treatment of Human Papilloma Virus ("HPV") - associated cancers. The Company completed a randomized Phase 2 study in 110 patients with recurrent cervical cancer that was shown to have a manageable safety profile, apparent improved survival and objective tumor responses. In addition, the Gynecologic Oncology Group ("GOG") Foundation, Inc., now part of NRG Oncology, conducted a cooperative group / Company sponsored Phase 2 open-label clinical study of axalimogene filolisbac in patients with persistent or recurrent cervical cancer with documented disease progression. The study, known as GOG-0265, has successfully completed the first and second stages in its Simon 2-stage design. The results from both stages combined demonstrate a 38% 12-month overall survival. Upon early closure of this study, a total of 50 patients were dosed resulting in a 12-month survival rate of 38.0% with a manageable safety profile. The Company has initiated a registrational Phase 3 clinical trial for the adjuvant treatment of women with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer and is planning to initiate a registrational Phase 3 clinical trial in 2017 in the metastatic cervical cancer setting. The Company also plans to pursue registrational opportunities in Europe in 2017 for the metastatic cervical cancer setting. Axalimogene filolisbac has received United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") orphan drug designation for three HPV-associated cancers: cervical, head and neck, and anal cancer, and has received European Medicines Agency ("EMA") orphan drug designation for anal cancer. Axalimogene filolisbac has been designated by the FDA as a Fast Track product for adjuvant therapy for high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer patients. It has also been classified as an advanced-therapy medicinal product ("ATMP") for the treatment of cervical cancer by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Advanced Therapies ("CAT"). Axalimogene filolisbac is subject to an agreement with the FDA, under the Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") process, for the Phase 3 AIM2CERV trial in patients with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer. It is also being evaluated in Company-sponsored trials executed under an Investigational New Drug ("IND") which include the following: (i) a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with MedImmune, LLC's ("MedImmune") investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736), in patients with previously treated metastatic cervical cancer or patients with HPV-associated head and neck cancer; and (ii) a single arm Phase 2 monotherapy study in patients with metastatic anal cancer. In addition to the Company-sponsored trials, axalimogene filolisbac is also being evaluated in two investigator-initiated clinical trials as follows: neoadjuvant treatment of HPV-positive head and neck cancer (Mount Sinai & Baylor College of Medicine), and locally advanced high risk anal cancer (Brown University). ADXS-PSA is the Company's Lm based product candidate designed to target the Prostate Specific Antigen ("PSA") associated with prostate cancer which is being evaluated in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck & Co.'s ("Merck") humanized monoclonal antibody against PD-1, in patients with previously treated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. ADXS-HER2 is the Company's Lm-based product candidate designed for the treatment of Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 ("HER2") expressing cancers, including human and canine osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 is being evaluated in a Phase 1b clinical trial in patients with metastatic HER2 expressing solid tumors. The Company received orphan drug designation from both the FDA and EMA for ADXS-HER2 in osteosarcoma and have received Fast Track designation from the FDA for patients with newly-diagnosed, non-metastatic, surgically-resectable osteosarcoma. Clinical research with ADXS-HER2 in canine osteosarcoma is being developed by the Company's pet therapeutic partner, Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), who holds exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 and three other Lm -LLO immunotherapies for pet health applications. Aratana has announced that a product license application for use of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of canine osteosarcoma has been filed with the United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA"). Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2017. ADXS-NEO is the Company's individual Lm-based antigen delivery technology combined with a fusion protein based on information captured by comparing a patient's own DNA with the DNA from that patient's tumor. The FDA has cleared the Company's IND application of a new precision immunotherapy for the treatment of cancers. The Company plans to initiate a Phase 1 study in 2017. F- 5 The Company has focused its development efforts on establishing a drug development pipeline that incorporates this technology into therapeutic cancer immunotherapies, with clinical trials currently targeting HPV-associated cancers (cervical cancer, head and neck cancer, and anal cancer), prostate cancer, and osteosarcoma. Although no immunotherapies have been commercialized to date, the Company continues to invest in research and development to advance the technology and make it available to patients with many different types of cancer. Pipeline development and the further exploration of the technology for advancement entails risk and expense. The Company anticipates that its ongoing operational costs will increase significantly as it continues conducting and expanding its clinical development programs. In addition to its existing single antigen vectors that target one tumor associated antigen, the Company is actively engaged in the development of new constructs that will address multiple targets that are common to tumor types, as well as mutation-associated epitopes that are specific to an individual patient's tumor. The Company is also leveraging its Lm Technology to target common (public or shared) mutations (hotspots) in tumor driver genes. The Company is exploring a preclinical infectious disease program as well to examine potential applications of its Lm Technology . Lastly, the Company is continuing to build-out its manufacturing capabilities at the state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Princeton, NJ, to produce supplies for its neoepitope and other development programs. Liquidity and Financial Condition The Company's products are being developed and have not generated significant revenues. As of January 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $136.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on its balance sheet. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately through the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The estimate is based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and the Company could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of its product candidates, the Company is unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of its current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION Basis of Presentation - Unaudited Interim Financial Information The accompanying unaudited interim condensed financial statements and related notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") for interim financial information, and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC with respect to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The unaudited interim condensed financial statements furnished reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to represent a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. These unaudited interim condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended October 31, 2016 and notes thereto contained in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016, as filed with the SEC on January 9, 2017. The information presented in the accompanying unaudited condensed balance sheet as of October 31, 2016 has been derived from the Company's October 31, 2016 audited financial statements. Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") involves the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ substantially from these estimates. Significant estimates include the fair value and recoverability of the carrying value of property and equipment intangible assets (patents and licenses), the fair value of investments, the fair value of options, the fair value of warrants and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from estimates. Revenue Recognition The Company is expected to derive the majority of its revenue from patent licensing and research and development services associated with patent licensing. In general, these revenue arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by the Company. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, or upon the final milestones being met, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. The Company recognizes licensing fees when there is persuasive evidence of a licensing arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred and collectability is reasonably assured. F- 6 Revenue associated with nonrefundable upfront license fees under arrangements where the license fees and research and development activities cannot be accounted for as separate units of accounting is deferred and recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the expected period of performance. Revenues from the achievement of research and development milestones, if deemed substantive, are recognized as revenue when the milestones are achieved and the milestone payments are due and collectible. If not deemed substantive, the Company recognizes such milestones as revenue on a straight-line basis over the remaining expected performance period under the arrangement. All such recognized revenues are included in collaborative licensing and development revenue in the Company's statements of operations. Milestones are considered substantive if all of the following conditions are met: (1) the milestone is nonrefundable; (2) achievement of the milestone was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement; (3) substantive effort is involved to achieve the milestone; and (4) the amount of the milestone appears reasonable in relation to the effort expended, and the other milestones in the arrangement and the related risk associated with the achievement of the milestone and any ongoing research and development or other services are priced at fair value. If product development is successful, the Company will recognize revenue from royalties based on licensees' sales of its products or products using its technologies. Royalties are recognized as earned in accordance with the contract terms when royalties from licensees can be reasonably estimated and collectability is reasonably assured. If royalties cannot be reasonably estimated or collectability of a royalty amount is not reasonably assured, royalties are recognized as revenue when the cash is received. Deferred revenue represents the portion of payments received for which the earnings process has not been completed. Deferred revenue expected to be recognized within the next 12 months is classified as a current liability. An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on the Company's best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the Company's existing license fee receivables, using historical experience. The Company reviews its allowance for doubtful accounts periodically. Past due accounts are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. To date, this is yet to occur. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. As of January 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company had approximately $49.0 million and $106.7 million in cash equivalents. Concentration of Credit Risk The Company maintains its cash in bank deposit accounts (checking) that at times exceed federally insured limits. Approximately $53.9 million is subject to credit risk at January 31, 2017. However, these cash balances are maintained at creditworthy financial institutions. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and accounts payable approximated fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because of the relatively short maturity dates on these instruments. The carrying amounts of the financing arrangements issued approximate fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because interest rates on these instruments approximate market interest rates after consideration of stated interest rates, anti-dilution protection and associated warrants. Net Loss per Share Basic net income or loss per common share is computed by dividing net income or loss available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share give effect to dilutive options, warrants, convertible debt and other potential Common Stock outstanding during the period. In the case of a net loss the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from warrants, outstanding stock options and convertible debt are not included in the computation of diluted loss per share, as the effect would be anti-dilutive. In the case of net income the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from these instruments that have intrinsic value are included in the diluted earnings per share. The table sets forth the number of potential shares of Common Stock that have been excluded from diluted net loss per share. F- 7 Stock Based Compensation The Company has an equity plan which allows for the granting of stock options to its employees, directors and consultants for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at date of grant. The Company measures the cost of services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award. For employees and directors, the fair value of the award is measured on the grant date and for non-employees, the fair value of the award is generally measured based on contractual terms. The fair value amount is then recognized over the requisite service period, usually the vesting period, in both research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses on the statement of operations, depending on the nature of the services provided by the employees or consultants. The process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing stock-based compensation cost over their requisite service period involves significant assumptions and judgments. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Model ("BSM") for the remaining awards, which requires that the Company makes certain assumptions regarding: (i) the expected volatility in the market price of its Common Stock; (ii) dividend yield; (iii) risk-free interest rates; and (iv) the period of time employees are expected to hold the award prior to exercise (referred to as the expected holding period). As a result, if the Company revises its assumptions and estimates, stock-based compensation expense could change materially for future grants. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using fair value recognition and records stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings net of forfeited awards. As such, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost only for those stock-based awards that vest over their requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the individual grants. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, as part of its ongoing efforts to assist in the convergence of GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", which is a new standard related to revenue recognition. Under the new standard, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised services or goods in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. The standard must be adopted using either a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or a modified retrospective approach. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers - Deferral of the Effective Date", which defers the implementation of this new standard to be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted effective January 1, 2017. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, "Principal versus Agent Considerations", which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, "Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing", and in May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, "Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients", which amend certain aspects of the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. We are currently evaluating which transition approach we will utilize and the impact of adopting this accounting standard on our unaudited condensed financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases ("Topic 842") ("ASU 2016-02"). The standard amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets and making targeted changes to lessor accounting. ASU 2016-02 will be effective beginning in the first quarter of 2019. Early adoption of ASU 2016-02 is permitted. The new leases standard requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application, with an option to use certain transition relief. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on the Company's financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, "Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting". This ASU makes targeted amendments to the accounting for employee share-based payments. This guidance is to be applied using various transition methods such as full retrospective, modified retrospective, and prospective based on the criteria for the specific amendments as outlined in the guidance. The guidance is effective for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted, as long as all of the amendments are adopted in the same period. The Company has evaluated this standard and chose early adoption effective March 30, 2016. The Company elected to record for forfeitures as they occur. This ASU has not had a material impact on the Company's financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ASU 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments". The standard significantly changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that aren't measured at fair value through net income. The standard will replace today's "incurred loss" approach with an "expected loss" model for instruments measured at amortized cost. For available-for-sale debt securities, entities will be required to record allowances rather than reduce the carrying amount, as they do today under the other-than-temporary impairment model. It also simplifies the accounting model for purchased credit-impaired debt securities and loans. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods therein. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods therein. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective accounting pronouncements, if adopted, would have a material impact on the accompanying condensed financial statements. F- 8 3. INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company's investment securities at amortized cost as of January 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016: All of the Company's investments mature within the next 12 months. 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment consists of the following: Depreciation expense for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 was $157,580 and $46,034 respectively. 5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Pursuant to our license agreement with the University of Pennsylvania, the Company is billed actual patent expenses as they are passed through from Penn and are billed directly from our patent attorney. The following is a summary of intangible assets as of the end of the following fiscal periods: F- 9 The expirations of the existing patents range from 2017 to 2037 but the expirations can be extended based on market approval if granted and/or based on existing laws and regulations. Capitalized costs associated with patent applications that are abandoned without future value are charged to expense when the determination is made not to pursue the application. No patent applications with future value were abandoned or expired and charged to expense in the three months ended January 31, 2017 or 2016. Amortization expense for intangible assets is included in research and development expenses and aggregated $74,410 and $57,946 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows: Year ended October 31, 6. ACCRUED EXPENSES: The following table represents the major components of accrued expenses: 7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Warrants A summary of changes in warrants for the three months ended January 31, 2017 is as follows: At January 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 3.09 million of its total 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as equity (equity warrants). At issuance, equity warrants are recorded at their relative fair values, using the Relative Fair Value Method, in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet. The Company's equity warrants can only be settled through the issuance of shares and are not subject to anti-dilution provisions. Warrant Liability At January 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 18,000 of its total approximately 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as liability warrants (liability warrants). The Company utilizes the BSM to calculate the fair value of these warrants at issuance and at each subsequent reporting date. The liability warrants contain a cash settlement provision in the event of a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Common Stock purchase warrant). Any changes in the fair value of the warrant liability (i.e. - the total fair value of all outstanding liability warrants at the balance sheet date) between reporting periods will be reported on the statement of operations. At January 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the fair value of the warrant liability was $10,652 and $20,156, respectively. For the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company reported a gain of $9,504 and $49,282, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. In determining the fair value of the warrant liability, at January 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: F- 10 As of January 31, 2017, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 3,110,575 shares of the Company's Common Stock with exercise prices ranging from $3.75 to $18.75 per share. As of January 31, 2017, the aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding warrants was approximately $12,248,000. 8. SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Employment Agreements Management voluntarily purchases restricted stock directly from the Company at market price. The respective stock purchases occur on the last trading day of each month. This voluntary election is outlined in each of Daniel J. O'Connor, Chief Executive Officer and President, Robert G. Petit, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, and Sara M. Bonstein, Executive Vice President and Secretary, Chief Financial Officer, (each an "Executive"), employment agreements. The table below reflects the purchases of each Executive: For the three months ended January 31, 2017, the Company recorded stock compensation expense of $42,016 in the statement of operations for the portion of management salaries voluntarily paid in stock representing 5,316 shares of its Common Stock (4,071 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the three months ended January 31, 2016, the Company recorded a similar stock compensation expense of $64,332 in the statement of operations representing 7,060 shares of its Common Stock (4,947 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). From 2013 to present, in addition to the purchases of Common Stock set forth in the above table, Mr. O'Connor has also purchased an additional 164,909 shares of Common Stock out of his personal funds at the then market price for an aggregate consideration of $689,004. These purchases consisted of the conversion of amounts due to Mr. O'Connor under a promissory note given by Mr. O'Connor to the Company in 2012 of approximately $66,500 for 21,091 shares, 2013 base salary which he elected to receive in Common Stock of approximately $186,555 for 34,752 shares (21,489 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), 2013 and 2014 cash bonuses voluntarily requested to receive in equity of $214,359 for 62,064 shares (57,990 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), fiscal 2014 voluntary request to purchase stock directly from the Company at market price purchases of $68,750 for 21,687 shares (15,950 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), fiscal 2015 voluntary request to purchase stock directly from the Company at market price purchases of $88,840 for 8,482 shares (7,556 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), and purchases of the Company's Common Stock in the October 2013 and March 2014 public offerings of 13,500 shares for $54,000 and 3,333 shares for $10,000. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) A summary of the Company's RSU activity and related information for the three months ended January 31, 2017 is as follows: As of January 31, 2017, there was approximately $9,175,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 2.28 years. As of January 31, 2017, the aggregate intrinsic value of non-vested RSUs was approximately $9,955,000. F- 11 Employee Stock Awards During the three months ended January 31, 2017, 88,660 shares of Common Stock were issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements and employee excellence awards. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards was $1,314,623. During the three months ended January 31, 2016, 238,129 shares of Common Stock were issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements and employee excellence awards. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards was $1,857,076. Furthermore, non-executive employees were entitled to receive a performance-based year-end cash bonus. Several non-executive employees voluntarily requested to be paid all or a portion of their cash bonus in the Company's Common Stock instead of cash. During the three months ended January 31, 2016, the Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $102,022 for bonuses that will be paid in Common Stock. Director Stock Awards During the three months ended January 31, 2017, total stock compensation expense to the Directors for amortization of unvested awards was $101,628. During the three months ended January 31, 2016, 31,767 shares of Common Stock were issued to the Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership. Total stock compensation expense to the Directors was $311,205. Stock Options A summary of changes in the stock option plan for the three months ended January 31, 2017 is as follows: Total compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options, recognized in the statement of operations for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was $3,183,458. For the three months ended January 31, 2016, compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options was $6,671,986. During the three months ended January 31, 2017, 556,952 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of $3,542,215. During the three months ended January 31, 2016, 1,385,000 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of $14,837,970. As of January 31, 2017, there was approximately $19,688,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 1.65 years. As of January 31, 2017, the aggregate intrinsic value of vested and exercisable options was approximately $74,000. In determining the fair value of the stock options granted during the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: F- 12 Shares Issued to Consultants During the three months ended January 31, 2017, 32,500 shares of Common Stock valued at $313,600 were issued to consultants for services, of which $75,000 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $230,100 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. During the three months ended January 31, 2016, 23,124 shares of Common Stock valued at $275,087 were issued to consultants for services, of which $55,000 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $302,300 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense included in the Statement of Operations by expense category for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively: 9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES: Legal Proceedings Knoll On August 21, 2015, Knoll Capital Management L.P. ("KCM") filed a complaint against the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The complaint alleges the existence of an oral agreement for the purchase by Knoll from the Company of 1,666,666.67 shares of Company stock at a price of $3.00 per share. KCM alleges that the Company breached this alleged agreement and seeks specific performance or, alternatively, money damages for breach of contract. KCM served the Company with the complaint on August 31, 2015, and then served an amended complaint on October 16, 2015. The Company moved to dismiss the amended complaint on October 26, 2015 and that motion was denied on January 29, 2016. The Company filed an answer to the amended complaint on February 12, 2016. The parties are currently in the process of producing document discovery. A bench trial has been set for November 7, 2017. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously. Larkin and Bono On August 20, 2015, a derivative complaint was filed by a purported Company shareholder in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey styled David Bono v. O'Connor, et al., Case No. 3:15-CV-006326-FLW-DEA (D.N.J. Aug. 20, 2015) (the "Bono Action"). The complaint is based on general allegations related to certain stock options granted to the individual defendants and generally alleges counts for breaches of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment. The complaint also alleges additional claims for violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and for waste of corporate assets. The complaint seeks damages and costs of an unspecified amount, disgorgement of compensation obtained by the individual defendants, and injunctive relief. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Bono Action. On May 23, 2016, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey issued an opinion and order granting in part and denying in part defendants' motion to dismiss. The court denied the motion to dismiss as to the breach of fiduciary duty claim and unjust enrichment claim against the three members of the Compensation Committee, but dismissed without prejudice the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the other eight individual defendants. The court dismissed without prejudice the Section 14(a) disclosure claim and waste claims against all defendants. On October 5, 2016, the court denied plaintiff's motion for reconsideration of its May 23 order. At this stage of the proceeding, the Company does not express any opinion as to likely outcome, but the Company intends to defend the action vigorously. General The Company is from time to time involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. The Company does not believe that any of these claims and proceedings against it is likely to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. F- 13 Operating Leases The Company's corporate offices are currently located at 305 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. Future minimum payments of the Company's operating leases are as follows: Year ended October 31, 10. FAIR VALUE The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or the most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Market participants are buyers and sellers in the principal market that are (i) independent, (ii) knowledgeable, (iii) able to transact, and (iv) willing to transact. The guidance describes a fair value hierarchy based on the levels of inputs, of which the first two are considered observable and the last unobservable, that may be used to measure fair value which are the following: Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2- Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or corroborated by observable market data or substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the value of the assets or liabilities. The following table provides the liabilities carried at fair value measured on a recurring basis as of January 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016: Common stock warrant liability: 11. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On February 27, 2017, the Company entered into a license agreement with Sellas Life Science Group ("Sellas") to develop a novel cancer immunotherapy agent using Advaxis' proprietaryLm-based antigen delivery technology with SELLAS' patented WT1 targeted heteroclitic peptide antigen mixture (galinpepimut-S)). Pursuant to the agreement, Advaxis will conduct all pre-clinical activities required for an IND filing and Sellas will be responsible for all clinical development and commercial activities. Advaxis will receive future payments of up to $358 million from SELLAS if certain development, regulatory, and commercial milestones are met. SELLAS has agreed to pay Advaxis single-digit to low double-digit royalties based on worldwide net sales upon commercialization. If SELLAS sublicenses its rights, Advaxis will receive a percentage of applicable sublicense revenue paid. F- 14 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements as a result of many known or unknown factors, including, but not limited to, those factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and incorporated by reference herein. See also the "Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" set forth at the beginning of this report. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements, and the related footnotes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this report, and in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis and the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016. Overview We are a clinical-stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of our proprietary Lm-based antigen delivery system with our lead program in Phase 3 development. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-based strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. Axalimogene filolisbac Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac is an Lm based directed against HPV and designed to target cells expressing the HPV. It is currently under investigation in three HPV-associated cancers: cervical cancer, head and neck cancer, and anal cancer, either as a monotherapy or in combination. Cervical Cancer There are 527,624 new cases of cervical cancer caused by HPV worldwide every year, and 12,000 new cases in the U.S. alone, according to the WHO Human Papillomavirus and Related Cancers in the World Summary Report 2016 ("WHO"). Current preventative vaccines cannot protect all women who are infected with this very common virus. Challenges with acceptance, accessibility, and compliance have resulted in approximately a third of young women being vaccinated in the United States and even less in other countries around the world. We completed a randomized Phase 2 clinical study (Lm-LLO-E7-15), conducted exclusively in India, in 110 women with recurrent/refractory cervical cancer. The final results were presented at the 2014 American Society of Clinical Oncology ("ASCO") Annual Meeting, and showed that 32% (35/109) of patients were alive at 12 months, 22% (24/109) of patients were Long-term Survivors ("LTS") alive greater than 18 months, and 18% (16/91) evaluable with adequate follow-up of patients were alive for more than 24 months. Of the 109 patients treated in the study, LTS included not only patients with tumor shrinkage but also patients who had experienced stable disease or increased tumor burden. 17% (19/109) of the patients in the trial had recurrence of disease after at least two prior treatments for their cervical cancer; these patients comprised 8% (2/24) of LTS. Among the LTS, 25% (3/12) of patients had a baseline ECOG performance status of 2, a patient population that is often times excluded from clinical trials. Furthermore, a 10% objective response rate (including 5 complete responses and 6 partial responses) and a disease control rate of 38% (42/109) were observed. The addition of cisplatin chemotherapy to axalimogene filolisbac in this study did not significantly improve overall survival or objective tumor response (p =0.9981). In this study, 109 patients received 254 doses of axalimogene filolisbac. Axalimogene filolisbac was found to be well tolerated with 38% (41/109) of patients experiencing mild to moderate Grade 1 or 2 transient adverse events associated with infusion; 1 patient experienced a Grade 3 Serious Adverse Events ("SAE"). All observed treatment-related adverse events either self-resolved or responded readily to symptomatic treatment. We have reached an agreement with the FDA, under the Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") process, for a Phase 3 trial evaluating axalimogene filolisbac in patients with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer ("AIM2CERV" or "Advaxis Immunotherapy 2 Prevent Cervical Recurrence"). Pursuant to the SPA, the study has been determined by FDA to be adequate, well-designed, and suitable for registration. This study will be conducted in collaboration with the GOG/NRG Oncology, an independent international non-profit organization with the purpose of promoting excellence in the quality and integrity of clinical and basic scientific research in the field of gynecologic malignancies, we have initiated the AIM2CERV study to support a Biologics License Application ("BLA") submission in the U.S. and regulatory registration in other territories around the world. AIM2CERV is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, Phase 3 study of adjuvant axalimogene filolisbac, following primary chemoradiation treatment of women with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer ("HRLACC"). The primary objective of AIM2CERV is to compare the disease free survival of axalimogene filolisbac to placebo administered in the adjuvant setting following standard concurrent chemotherapy and radiotherapy ("CCRT") administered with curative intent to patients with HRLACC. Secondary endpoints include examining overall survival and safety. Our goal is to develop a treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of cervical cancer recurrence after primary, standard of care treatment in women who are at high risk of recurrence. 4 Biocon Limited ("Biocon"), our co-development and commercialization partner for axalimogene filolisbac in India and key emerging markets, filed a Marketing Authorization Application ("MAA") for licensure of this immunotherapy in India. The Drug Controller General of India ("DCGI") accepted this MAA for review. The filing of the MAA was driven by several factors: (i) results from the Lm -LLO-E7-15 Phase 2 trial indicated that axalimogene filolisbac was well tolerated and showed significant clinical activity in recurrent/refractory cervical cancer; (ii) cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among Indian women (according to WHO, there are 122,844 new cases per year with 67,544 deaths reported); and (iii) current treatment options for non-operable refractory/recurrent disease are limited in India. As part of the MAA review process, Biocon met with the Scientific Expert Committee (the "Committee"). The Committee indicated that proof of concept for this novel immunotherapy has been established. The Committee advised Biocon to obtain data from a Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with recurrent cervical cancer who have failed prior chemo and radiation therapies. The face-to-face interaction with the Committee provided Biocon and Advaxis with valuable insight for future development and the companies are evaluating next steps. We have a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune, the global biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca, and are conducting a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two-part study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab, as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck ("SCCHN"). For the axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, the dose-escalation phase has been completed. As reported at the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer ("SITC") 2016 annual meeting, preliminary results from the dose escalation portion of the study showed that there were no dose limiting toxicities observed, and the safety profile was consistent with previous findings for both axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab. The recommended phase 2 dose was established as 1x109 CFU for axalimogene filolisbac and 10 mg/kg for durvalumab. In early data reported from this ongoing trial, one patient with cervical cancer achieved a complete response, which remains ongoing after 16 months of follow-up and one patient, also with cervical cancer, achieved a partial response with subsequent disease progression. In addition, two patients with HNSCC achieved stable disease. Treatment related adverse events ("TRAE") were reported in 91 percent of patients; the majority were either grade 1 or grade 2 events such as chills, fever, nausea and hypotension. Grade 3 TRAEs occurred in three patients, and one patient experienced a grade 4 event. We have commenced enrollment in the Part A (20 patients with SCCHN) and B (90 patients with cervical cancer) expansion phases. Accrual is ongoing. The GOG Foundation, Inc. (now a member of NRG Oncology), under the sponsorship of the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program ("CTEP") of the National Cancer Institute ("NCI"), conducted GOG-0265, an open-label, single arm Phase 2 study of axalimogene filolisbac in persistent or recurrent cervical cancer (patients must have received at least 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of their recurrent/metastatic disease, not including that administered as a component of primary treatment) at numerous clinical sites in the U.S. The study was a Simon 2-stage design. The primary efficacy endpoint was the 12-month survival rate, with the objective of the secondary efficacy endpoints to evaluate progression-free survival, overall survival and objective tumor response. The primary safety endpoints were to evaluate the number of patients with dose-limiting toxicities and the frequency and severity of adverse effects. In order to evaluate the study's primary endpoint of the 12-month overall survival rate, the GOG's protocol featured a prospectively-defined logistic model-based calculation of the expected 12-month survival rate using key predictive factors significantly related to survival and derived from 17 serially conducted GOG/NRG 2-stage studies of inactive agents in PRmCC involving approximately 500 patients. This accumulated data by GOG used a consistent protocol design and a similar data collection methodology resulting in a robust and homogeneous patient dataset for the per protocol analysis of the primary endpoint. Per the study protocol, this logistic model-based calculation was then used as a comparator for evaluating the 12-month survival rate of axalimogene filolisbac actually observed. The first stage of enrollment in GOG-0265 was successfully completed with 26 patients treated and met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient enrollment. Clinical data from the first stage of GOG-0265 was presented at the American Gynecological & Obstetrical Society ("AGOS") annual meeting on September 17, 2015. Overall survival at 12 months was 38.5% (10/26) (the conditional power needed in order to progress to Stage 2 was 20%), and, among patients who had received the full treatment regimen of 3 doses of axalimogene filolisbac, the 12-month survival rate was 55.6% (10/18). The adverse events observed in the first stage of the study have been consistent with those reported in other clinical studies with axalimogene filolisbac. It was well-tolerated, with Grade 1-2 fatigue, chills, and fever the most commonly reported Adverse Events ("AE"); six patients experienced a treatment-related Grade 3 or Grade 4 AE, which was considered possibly-related to axalimogene filolisbac. Stage 2 of the study began enrollment in February 2015 which included a protocol amendment to allow patients to continue to receive repeat cycles of therapy until disease progression. Stage 2 enrollment was temporarily suspended with the clinical hold in October 2015. Prior to re-initiating enrollment of a new cohort of Stage 2 patients, Advaxis and the GOG Foundation/NRG Oncology examined the 12-month survival rate and safety data obtained from the 24 patients who had previously enrolled in Stage 2. The Stage 2 population demonstrated that treatment with axalimogene filolisbac resulted in a 37.5% (9/24) 12-month survival rate. This data was consistent with the findings in Stage 1 that showed a 38.5% 12-month survival rate, despite a greater proportion of Stage 2 patients having failed bevacizumab treatment. Taken together, the available data from both stages of GOG-0265 comprise a Phase 2 clinical trial with 50 subjects with a 12 month survival rate of 38% (19/50). The protocol defined logistic model-based calculation of the expected 12-month milestone survival rate was calculated to be 24.5 percent using the key predictors from the patients enrolled in the study. The 12 month survival rate of 38 percent of axalimogene filolisbac represents a 52 percent improvement over the expected 12-month milestone survival rate of 24.5 percent. In the second stage of the study, 15 out of 24 patients experienced a Grade 1 or Grade 2 TRAE associated with axalimogene filolisbac infusion. The most common Grade 1 or Grade 2 TRAEs were hypotension and symptoms related to cytokine release (e.g., nausea, chills, fever). Nine out of 24 patients experienced a Grade 3 TRAE and two out of 24 patients experienced a Grade 4 TRAE, which were hypotension and symptoms related to cytokine release. 5 In October 2016, upon review of these findings, the Company announced early closure of GOG-0265. Based on these data, the Company plans on pursuing regulatory opportunities for this unmet medical need in Europe in 2017, and is planning to initiate a Phase 3 registrational trial in 2017 in the metastatic cervical cancer setting. Results from the GOG-0265 study will be presented at the Society of Gynecologic Oncology ("SGO") meeting on March 14, 2017 and was selected for an oral late-breaker presentation. Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA orphan drug designation for invasive FIGO Stage II-IV cervical cancer, and has received Fast Track designation from the FDA for high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer patients. Axalimogene filolisbac has also been classified as an advanced-therapy medicinal product ("ATMP") for the treatment of cervical cancer by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Advanced Therapies ("CAT"). The CAT is the EMA's committee responsible for assessing the quality, safety and efficacy of ATMPs. The Company has commenced the CAT certification procedure and review of preclinical and CMC information is underway for potential inclusion in the Marketing Authorization Application. Head and Neck Cancer SCCHN is the most frequently occurring malignant tumor of the head and neck and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. More than 90% of SCCHNs originate from the mucosal linings of the oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx and 70% of these cancers are caused by HPV, with the incidence increasing every year. According to the American Cancer Society, head and neck cancer accounts for about 3% of all cancers in the United States. Approximately 12,000 new cases will be diagnosed in the United Stated in 2016 according to the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results ("SEER") database. The safety and immunogenicity of axalimogene filolisbac is being evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND at Mount Sinai and Baylor College of Medicine in a pre-surgery "window of opportunity" trial in patients with HPV-positive head and neck cancer. This clinical trial is the first study to evaluate the immunologic and pathologic effects of axalimogene filolisbac in patients when they are initially diagnosed with HPV-associated head and neck cancer. The study is designed to show that axalimogene filolisbac is highly immunogenic and worth further investigation if the overall rate of vaccine-induced T-cell responses is 75 percent or more. Preliminary clinical data from this trial was presented at the American Association of Cancer Research ("AACR") annual meeting on April 18, 2016. The data from eight of the nine patients enrolled in Stage 1 who were treated with axalimogene filolisbac confirmed that the study met the target for the overall rate of vaccine-induced T-cell response. The results demonstrated that, HPV E7- and/or E6-specific T cell responses increased in the peripheral blood in five of the study patients. Increased infiltration of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were observed in the Tumor Immune Microenvironment ("TME") of four patients, with a reduction of FOXP3+ regulatory T cells within the tumors of 3/6 patients. Increased T cell responses to HPV E6 supports enhanced immune activity against additional tumor targets. Changes to the TME included cytotoxic T cell infiltration into the post-resection tumor, increased immune activation, a reduction of regulatory T cells, infiltration of cytotoxic T cells, and increased expression of inflammatory activation markers. In addition, fluctuations of circulating serum cytokine were observed suggesting consumption by activated T cells and migration of T cells to the TME. This study met its Stage 1 primary objective and is now advancing into the second stage of the clinical study. Stage 2 of the clinical study is currently accruing patients. As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to collaborate on a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with durvalumab (MEDI4736), for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA orphan drug designation for HPV-associated head and neck cancer. Anal Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, nearly all squamous cell anal cancers are linked to infection by HPV, the same virus that causes cervical cancer. According to the SEER database, approximately 7,500 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016. The safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac was evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND by Brown University in patients with high-risk locally advanced anal cancer. As of December 2016, 11 patients were enrolled and all patients who have completed treatment experienced a six-month complete response (n=9), with no evidence of recurrence. Expected complete response rate at six-months is approximately 50% and the complete response rate in this study is 90% (9 out of 10 treated patients). The follow-up duration is six-months to 33 months. In consideration of these data, no further enrollment in this study is planned and the investigator at Brown University is evaluating the opportunity to transition this study into a NCI-funded cooperative group trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac in a pivotal Phase 2/3 anal cancer trial, to be conducted by NRG Oncology. In advance of the foregoing, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group ("RTOG") Foundation for the conduct of such study. Depending on the Company's ability to agree upon the study design and budget, the Company plans to initiate a registrational study in high-risk locally advanced anal cancer. We are conducting a Phase 2 multi-center, open-label, Simon two-stage study ("FAWCETT" or "Fighting Anal-Cancer with CTL Enhancing Tumor Therapy"), testing axalimogene filolisbac in patients with persistent or recurrent metastatic anal cancer. FAWCETT is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of axalimogene filolisbac as a monotherapy in patients with HPV-associated metastatic anal cancer who have received at least one prior treatment regimen for the advanced disease. Stage 1 of the trial enrolled 36 patients with anal cancer whose disease recurred after receiving treatment. Enrollment of Stage 2 will begin following the evaluation of Stage 1 and is targeting enrollment of 60 patients. Patients will receive axalimogene filolisbac 1x10 9 CFU doses every three weeks for up to two years. 6 Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for anal cancer. ADXS-PSA Franchise Prostate Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer is the second most common type of cancer found in American men. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in men, behind only lung cancer. One man in seven will get prostate cancer during his lifetime, and one man in 36 will die of this disease. About 180,890 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016 according to the SEER database and accounts for approximately 11% of all new cancer cases. ADXS-PSA is an Lm based antigen delivery system designed to target the PSA antigen commonly overexpressed in prostate cancer. We have entered into a clinical trial collaboration and supply agreement with Merck & Co. ("Merck") to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and expansion study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, cohorts were successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x109 CFU and 1x1010 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The ADXS-PSA monotherapy portion of this clinical trial has been completed and accrual and patient treatment has begun in the cohort combining ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 Expressing Solid Tumors HER2 is overexpressed in a percentage of solid tumors including osteosarcoma. According to the SEER database and recent published literature, approximately 60-70% of osteosarcoma are HER2 positive, which is associated with poor outcomes for patients. ADXS-HER2 is an Lm based antigen delivery system designed to target HER2 expressing solid tumors including human and canine osteosarcoma. The FDA has cleared our IND application and we have initiated a Phase 1b study in patients with metastatic HER2-expressing cancers. Thereafter, we intend to initiate a clinical development program with ADXS-HER2 for the treatment of pediatric osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma Osteosarcoma affects about 400 children and teens in the U.S. every year, representing a small but significant unmet medical need that has seen little therapeutic improvement in decades. Osteosarcoma is considered a rare disease and may qualify for regulatory incentives including, but not limited to, orphan drug designation, patent term extension, market exclusivity, and development grants. Given the limited availability of new treatment options for osteosarcoma, and that it is an unmet medical need affecting a very small number of patients in the U.S. annually, we believe that, subject to regulatory approval, the potential to be on the market may be accelerated. Based on encouraging data discussed below from a veterinarian clinical study in which pet dogs with naturally occurring osteosarcoma were treated with ADXS-HER2, we intend to initiate a clinical development program with ADXS-HER2 for the treatment of human osteosarcoma. Both veterinary and human osteosarcoma specialists consider canine osteosarcoma to be the best model for human osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for osteosarcoma and has received Fast Track designation from the FDA for patients with newly-diagnosed, non-metastatic, surgically-resectable osteosarcoma. Canine Osteosarcoma Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone tumor in dogs, accounting for roughly 85% of tumors on the canine skeleton. Approximately 10,000 dogs a year (predominately middle to older-aged dogs and larger breeds) are diagnosed with osteosarcoma in the United States. This cancer initially presents as lameness and oftentimes visible swelling on the leg. Current standard of care treatment is amputation immediately after diagnosis, followed by chemotherapy. Median survival time with standard of care is ten to twelve months. For dogs that cannot undergo amputation, palliative radiation and analgesics are frequently employed and median survival times range from three to five months. Under the direction of Dr. Nicola Mason, the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine is conducting studies in companion dogs evaluating the safety and efficacy of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of naturally occurring canine osteosarcoma. In the initial study, the primary endpoint was to determine the maximum tolerated dose of ADXS-HER2. Secondary endpoints for the study were progression-free survival and overall survival. The findings of the Phase 1 clinical trial in dogs with osteosarcoma suggest that ADXS-HER2 is safe and well tolerated at doses up to 3.3 x 10 9 CFU with no evidence of significant cardiac, hematological, or other systemic toxicities. The study determined that ADXS-HER2 is able to delay or prevent metastatic disease and significantly prolong overall survival in dogs with osteosarcoma that had minimal residual disease following standard of care (amputation and follow-up chemotherapy). This work was recently published in the September 2016 issue of Clinical Cancer Research. Dogs receiving ADXS-HER2 following standard of care (n=18) had a progression free survival of 615 days and a median survival time of 956 days. These results compared favorably to a historical control group where the median survival time was 423 days. A second study conducted by Dr. Mason has evaluated the effects of combination palliative radiation with ADXS-HER2 on dogs with primary osteosarcoma who were unsuitable for amputation (n=15). Preliminary data was presented at the 2015 ACVIM Forum and showed that repeat doses of ADXS-HER2 administered after palliative radiation were well tolerated with no systemic or cardiac toxicity. In long-term follow-up, several dogs have experienced prolonged survival times ranging from 21 to 30 months. 7 On March 19, 2014, we entered into a definitive Exclusive License Agreement with Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), where we granted Aratana an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, certain of our proprietary technology that enables Aratana to develop and commercialize animal health products that will be targeted for treatment of osteosarcoma and other cancer indications in animals. A product license request has been filed by Aratana for ADXS-HER2 (also known as AT-014 by Aratana) for the treatment of canine osteosarcoma with the USDA. Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed and data, when available, needs to be analyzed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, we understand that Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2017. The Company does not anticipate significant revenue from this collaboration in 2017. Aratana has been granted exclusive worldwide rights by us to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 in animals. Aratana is further responsible for the conduct of clinical research with ADXS-Survivin in canine/feline lymphoma, as well as pending investigations of two additional Advaxis constructs in animals. ADXS-NEO Franchise In August 2016, we entered into a global agreement (the "Agreement") with Amgen Inc. ("Amgen") for the development and commercialization of ADXS-NEO, a novel, investigational cancer immunotherapy treatment, using our proprietary Lm Technology attenuated bacterial vector which activates a patient's immune system to respond against multiple potential unique mutations, or neoepitopes, contained in and identified from an individual patient's tumor through DNA sequencing. ADXS-NEO is an individual Lm-based antigen delivery technology combined with a fusion protein based on information captured by comparing a patient's own DNA with the DNA from that patient's tumor. It will target multiple patient specific neoantigens resulting from mutations found within each individual patient's tumor that are not present in normal cells. Each ADXS-NEO construct is designed to target the non-synonymous mutations found in the tumor, which is unique to the each patient's cancer. ADXS-NEO works by presenting a large payload of neoantigens directly into dendritic cells within the patient's immune system and stimulating a T-cell response against cancerous cells. The FDA has cleared the IND application of our new precision immunotherapy (ADXS-NEO) for the treatment of cancers and we plan to initiate a Phase 1 study in 2017 under our Agreement with Amgen. The goal of MINE is to use our Lm Technology to develop patient specific neo-epitope targeted immunotherapies based on mutations found in an individual patient's tumor ("ADXS-NEO"). MINE will first focus on a preclinical study of our new construct approach to evaluate the immunologic effects and anti-tumor activity of a personalized immunotherapy in mouse tumor models to inform subsequent clinical trials. Clinical studies using ADXS-NEO are in active development in collaboration with our partner, Amgen. Further, we have entered into various research collaboration, including the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, to advance the study of neoepitope-based, personalized cancer therapy as part of the Tumor neoantigEn SeLection Alliance ("TESLA") initiative. ADXS-HOT Franchise (preclinical) We are developing Lm-based constructs that could target common (public or shared) or "hot-spot" mutations in tumor driver genes. ADXS-HOT products may target acquired public mutations in tumor driver genes that are shared by multiple patients, and could have greater immunogenicity than the natural sequence peptides in normal cells. ADXS-HOT products are expected to be "off the shelf" and ready to administer for multiple patients. DNA sequencing is not required and presence of the hot-spot target can usually be determined by a rapid biomarker test. The ability to combine multiple constructs may increase coverage and the potential for clinical benefit. Lm-based Combination Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac and Durvalumab As further described above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to conduct a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736), as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. For the axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, the dose-escalation cohort has been completed. We have commenced enrollment in the Part A (20 patients with SCCHN) and B (90 patients with cervical cancer) expansion phases. Accrual is ongoing. ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab) As further described above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with Merck to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and expansion study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, cohorts were successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x109 CFU and 1x1010 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The ADXS-PSA monotherapy portion of this clinical trial has been completed and accrual and patient treatment has begun in the cohort combining ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). Lm-based Antigen Delivery System- (preclinical) We are developing other ways to exploit the potential of our Lm Technology including, but not limited to, the use of Lm Technology in Infectious Disease. We have various preclinical collaborations with academic and other centers of excellence to explore the potential opportunities in this disease area. Preclinical data of detoxified Listeriolysin O ("dtLLO") shows potential use as an immunologic adjuvant or carrier for vaccinations. We intend to continue to explore the potential of dtLLO as an adjuvant molecule in cancer as well as development of potential vaccines for infectious diseases. 8 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2017 AND 2016 Revenue During the quarter ended January 31, 2017, the Company recorded revenue of $3,790,842. The Company recognized $3,540,842 of revenue from the collaboration agreement with Amgen related to amortization of the upfront fees received. In addition, $250,000 of revenue was due to the receipt of an annual exclusive license fee from GBP for the development and commercialization of Axalimogene filolisbac. During the quarter ended January 31, 2016, the Company recorded revenue of $250,000 due to the receipt of an annual exclusive license fee from GBP for the development and commercialization of Axalimogene filolisbac. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2017 and 2016 were categorized as follows: Axalimogene Filolisbac Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac expenses were $3,964,585 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to $2,910,121 for the three months ended January 31, 2016, an increase of $1,054,464. The increase resulted from close-out costs associated with the Phase 2 GOG-0265 trial and manufacturing related costs to support the clinical program. ADXS-PSA Franchise PSA expenses were $886,630 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 as compared to $597,458 for the three months ended January 31, 2016, an increase of $289,172. The increase resulted from higher costs incurred on the Phase 1/2 study in combination with Merck's KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 expenses were $470,964 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to $35,150 for the three months ended January 31, 2016, and increase of $435,814. The increase was attributable to higher manufacturing costs to support the clinical program. ADXS-NEO Franchise NEO expenses were $397,774 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to $310,510 for the three months ended January 31, 2016, an increase of $87,264. The increase was attributable to pre-IND activities. Personnel Expenses Personnel expenses were $4,754,838 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to $7,412,671 for the three months ended January 31, 2016, a decrease of $2,657,833. Stock based compensation pertaining to present and past employees decreased by approximately $3,778,000 which was partially offset by an increase in headcount. Professional Fees Professional fees were $1,570,729 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to $1,403,138 for the three months ended January 31, 2016. Professional fees during the quarter ended January 31, 2017 were consistent with the comparable prior period. 9 Laboratory Costs Laboratory costs were $1,269,731 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to $251,688 for the three months ended January 31, 2016, an increase of $1,018,043. An increase in headcount and the expansion of laboratory space accounted for the increase. Other Expenses Other expenses were $333,303 for the three months ended January 31, 2017 compared to $144,218 for the three months ended January 31, 2016, an increase of $189,085. The increase was due to additional infrastructure costs incurred to support the increased headcount and laboratory expansion. We anticipate a significant increase in research and development expenses as a result of our intended expanded development and commercialization efforts primarily related to clinical trials and product development. In addition, we expect to incur expenses in the development of strategic and other relationships required to license, manufacture and distribute our product candidates when they are approved. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expenses were approximately $7.3 million for the three months ended January 31, 2017, compared with approximately $7.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016, an increase of approximately $0.2 million. Costs pertaining to the Company's infrastructure expansion, including leased space and information technology related costs, increased by approximately $0.4 million. Investor relations costs increased by approximately $0.3 million. This was partially offset by a decrease in legal costs of approximately $0.4 million. Interest Income Interest income was $145,137 for the three months ended January 31, 2017, compared with $71,800 for the three months ended January 31, 2016. The increase in interest income earned was attributable to an increase in cash resulting from sales of the Company's common shares. The cash was invested in held-to-maturity investments and a savings account. Changes in Fair Values For the three months ended January 31, 2017, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $9,504 due to a smaller range of share prices used in the calculation of the Black-Scholes Model ("BSM") volatility input. For the three months ended January 31, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $49,282 due to a decrease in the fair value of liability warrants primarily resulting from a decrease in our share price from $11.09 at October 31, 2015 to $6.82 at January 31, 2016. Income Tax Expense During the quarter ended January 31, 2017, we paid $50,000 in Taiwanese withholding taxes in connection with the revenue generated from an annual exclusive license fee from GBP. During the quarter ended January 31, 2016, we paid $50,000 in Taiwanese withholding taxes in connection with the revenue generated from an annual exclusive license fee from GBP. The taxes paid were offset by receipt of a net cash amount of $35,774 in excess of what was recorded as Income Tax Receivable at October 31, 2015 from the sale of our state NOLs and research and development tax credits for the period ended October 31, 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our major sources of cash have been proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock, option and warrant exercises, and interest income. From October 2013 through February 2017, we raised approximately $221.8 million in gross proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock. We have not yet commercialized any drug, and we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approvals for our drug, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations, successfully compete with other available treatment options in the marketplace, overcome any clinical holds that the FDA may impose and successfully manufacture and commercialize our drug alone or in partnership. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even after we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates. As of January 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $136.9 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on its balance sheet. We believe our current cash position is sufficient to fund our business plan approximately through the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The actual amount of cash that we will need to operate is subject to many factors. Since our inception through January 31, 2017, we reported accumulated net losses of approximately $224.8 million and recurring negative cash flows from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future. 10 Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was approximately $14.1 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and R&D tax credits of approximately $2.5 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was approximately $4.9 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and R&D tax credits of approximately $1.6 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was approximately $41.2 million resulting from investments in held-to-maturity investments, purchases of property and equipment, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was approximately $3.2 million resulting from investments in held-to-maturity investments, purchases of property and equipment, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2017 was approximately $124,000, resulting from net cash received related to employee withholdings of equity awards. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was approximately $235,000, resulting from approximately $614,000 in proceeds received on option and warrant exercises. This was partially offset by approximately $379,000 in net cash paid related to employee withholdings of equity awards. Our capital resources and operations to date have been funded primarily with the proceeds from public, private equity and debt financings, NOL tax sales and income earned on investments and grants. We have sustained losses from operations in each fiscal year since our inception, and we expect losses to continue for the indefinite future, due to the substantial investment in research and development. As of January 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $224,787,828 and $207,706,825, respectively, and shareholders' equity of $107,368,501 and $119,302,194, respectively. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately through second quarter of fiscal 2019. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of our current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan, extend payables and reduce overhead until sufficient additional capital is raised to support further operations. There can be no assurance that such a plan will be successful. Contractual Commitments and Obligations The disclosure of our contractual obligations and commitments was reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016. There have been no material changes from the contractual commitments and obligations previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K other than the changes described in Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 31, 2017, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures in the financial statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, and changes in the estimate of difference estimates that could have been selected could have material impact in our results of operations or financial condition. 11 While we base our estimates and judgments on our experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results could differ from those estimates and the differences could be material. The most significant estimates impact the following transactions or account balances: stock compensation, warrant liability valuation and impairment of intangibles. See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses significant accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses new accounting pronouncements.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 1 ADVAXIS, INC. STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. F- 2 ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 3 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information Supplemental Schedule of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 4 ADVAXIS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS Advaxis, Inc. ("Advaxis" or the "Company") is a late-stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary Lm-based antigen delivery system. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes ("Lm" or "Lm TechnologyTM") bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-based strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. Axalimogene filolisbac is our lead Lm based product candidate for the treatment of Human Papilloma Virus ("HPV") - associated cancers. The Company completed a randomized Phase 2 study in 110 patients with recurrent metastatic cervical cancer that was shown to have a manageable safety profile, apparent improved survival and objective tumor responses. In addition, the Gynecologic Oncology Group ("GOG") Foundation, Inc., now part of NRG Oncology, conducted a cooperative group / Company sponsored Phase 2 open-label clinical study of axalimogene filolisbac in patients with persistent or recurrent metastatic cervical cancer with documented disease progression. The study, known as GOG-0265, has successfully completed the first and second stages in its Simon 2-stage design. Upon early closure of this study, the results from both stages totaling 50 patients dosed resulted in a 12-month survival rate of 38.0% with a manageable safety profile. The Company has initiated a registrational Phase 3 clinical trial for the adjuvant treatment of women with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer and, pending FDA feedback, is planning to initiate a global, randomized, registrational quality clinical trial in 2017 in the metastatic cervical cancer setting with ADXS-DUAL, the Company's second immunotherapy targeting HPV-associated cancers, in combination with Bristol-Myers Squibb's ("BMS") PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, OPDIVO (nivolumab). The Company also plans to pursue registrational opportunities in Europe in 2017 for the metastatic cervical cancer setting as a monotherapy with axalimogene filolisbac. Axalimogene filolisbac has received United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") orphan drug designation for three HPV-associated cancers: cervical, head and neck, and anal cancer, and has received European Medicines Agency ("EMA") orphan drug designation for anal cancer. Axalimogene filolisbac has been designated by the FDA as a Fast Track product for adjuvant therapy for high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer patients. It has also been classified as an advanced-therapy medicinal product ("ATMP") for the treatment of cervical cancer by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Advanced Therapies ("CAT"). Axalimogene filolisbac is subject to an agreement with the FDA, under the Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") process, for the Phase 3 AIM2CERV trial in patients with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer. It is also being evaluated in Company-sponsored trials executed under an Investigational New Drug ("IND") which include the following: (i) a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with MedImmune, LLC's ("MedImmune") investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736), in patients with previously treated metastatic cervical cancer or patients with HPV-associated head and neck cancer; and (ii) a single arm Phase 2 monotherapy study in patients with metastatic anal cancer. In addition to the Company-sponsored trials, axalimogene filolisbac is also being evaluated in two investigator-initiated clinical trials as follows: neoadjuvant treatment of HPV-positive head and neck cancer (Mount Sinai & Baylor College of Medicine), and locally advanced high risk anal cancer (Brown University). ADXS-PSA is the Company's Lm based product candidate designed to target the Prostate Specific Antigen ("PSA") associated with prostate cancer which is being evaluated in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck & Co.'s ("Merck") humanized monoclonal antibody against PD-1, in patients with previously treated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. ADXS-HER2 is the Company's Lm-based product candidate designed for the treatment of Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 ("HER2") expressing cancers, including human and canine osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 is being evaluated in a Phase 1b clinical trial in patients with metastatic HER2 expressing solid tumors. The Company received orphan drug designation from both the FDA and EMA for ADXS-HER2 in osteosarcoma and have received Fast Track designation from the FDA for patients with newly-diagnosed, non-metastatic, surgically-resectable osteosarcoma. Clinical research with ADXS-HER2 in canine osteosarcoma is being developed by the Company's pet therapeutic partner, Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), who holds exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 and three other Lm -LLO immunotherapies for pet health applications. Aratana has announced that a product license application for use of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of canine osteosarcoma has been filed with the United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA"). Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2017. ADXS-NEO is the Company's individual Lm-based antigen delivery technology combined with a fusion protein based on information captured by comparing a patient's own DNA with the DNA from that patient's tumor. The FDA has cleared the Company's IND application of a new precision immunotherapy for the treatment of cancers. The Company plans to initiate a Phase 1 study in 2017. F- 5 The Company has focused its development efforts on establishing a drug development pipeline that incorporates this technology into therapeutic cancer immunotherapies, with clinical trials currently targeting HPV-associated cancers (cervical cancer, head and neck cancer, and anal cancer), prostate cancer, and osteosarcoma. Although no immunotherapies have been commercialized to date, the Company continues to invest in research and development to advance the technology and make it available to patients with many different types of cancer. Pipeline development and the further exploration of the technology for advancement entails risk and expense. The Company anticipates that its ongoing operational costs will increase significantly as it continues conducting and expanding its clinical development programs. In addition to its existing single antigen vectors that target one tumor associated antigen, the Company is actively engaged in the development of new constructs that will address multiple targets that are common to tumor types, as well as mutation-associated epitopes that are specific to an individual patient's tumor. The Company is also leveraging its Lm Technology to target common (public or shared) mutations (hotspots) in tumor driver genes. The Company is exploring a preclinical infectious disease program as well to examine potential applications of its Lm Technology . Lastly, the Company is continuing to build-out its manufacturing capabilities at the state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Princeton, NJ, to produce supplies for its neoepitope and other development programs. Liquidity and Financial Condition The Company's products are being developed and have not generated significant revenues. As of April 30, 2017, the Company had approximately $115.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on its balance sheet. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately through the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The estimate is based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and the Company could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of its product candidates, the Company is unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of its current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION Basis of Presentation - Unaudited Interim Financial Information The accompanying unaudited interim condensed financial statements and related notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") for interim financial information, and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC with respect to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The unaudited interim condensed financial statements furnished reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to represent a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. These unaudited interim condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended October 31, 2016 and notes thereto contained in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016, as filed with the SEC on January 9, 2017. The information presented in the accompanying unaudited condensed balance sheet as of October 31, 2016 has been derived from the Company's October 31, 2016 audited financial statements. Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ substantially from these estimates. Significant estimates include the fair value and recoverability of the carrying value of intangible assets (patents and licenses), the fair value of stock options, the fair value of embedded conversion features, warrants and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from estimates. Reclassifications Certain amounts in the prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the presentation of the current period financial statements. These reclassifications had no effect on the previously reported net loss. F- 6 Collaboration Agreements The Company evaluates whether an arrangement is a collaborative arrangement under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") Accounting Standards Certification ("ASC") Topic 808, Collaborative Arrangements , at its inception based on the facts and circumstances specific to the arrangement. The Company also reevaluates whether an arrangement qualifies or continues to qualify as a collaborative arrangement whenever there is a change in either the roles of the participants or the participants' exposure to significant risks and rewards dependent on the ultimate commercial success of the endeavor. For those collaborative arrangements where it is determined that the Company is the principal participant, costs incurred and revenue generated from third parties are recorded on a gross basis in the financial statements. From time to time, the Company enters into collaborative arrangements for the research and development, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and product candidates. These collaborations generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees, research and development and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The Company's collaboration agreements with third parties are performed on a ''best efforts'' basis with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success. Revenue Recognition The Company is expected to derive the majority of its revenue from patent licensing and research and development services associated with patent licensing. In general, these revenue arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by the Company. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, or upon the final milestones being met, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. The Company recognizes licensing fees when there is persuasive evidence of a licensing arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue associated with nonrefundable upfront license fees under arrangements where the license fees and research and development activities cannot be accounted for as separate units of accounting is deferred and recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the expected period of performance. Revenues from the achievement of research and development milestones, if deemed substantive, are recognized as revenue when the milestones are achieved and the milestone payments are due and collectible. If not deemed substantive, the Company recognizes such milestones as revenue on a straight-line basis over the remaining expected performance period under the arrangement. All such recognized revenues are included in collaborative licensing and development revenue in the Company's statements of operations. Milestones are considered substantive if all of the following conditions are met: (1) the milestone is nonrefundable; (2) achievement of the milestone was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement; (3) substantive effort is involved to achieve the milestone; and (4) the amount of the milestone appears reasonable in relation to the effort expended, and the other milestones in the arrangement and the related risk associated with the achievement of the milestone and any ongoing research and development or other services are priced at fair value. If product development is successful, the Company will recognize revenue from royalties based on licensees' sales of its products or products using its technologies. Royalties are recognized as earned in accordance with the contract terms when royalties from licensees can be reasonably estimated and collectability is reasonably assured. If royalties cannot be reasonably estimated or collectability of a royalty amount is not reasonably assured, royalties are recognized as revenue when the cash is received. Deferred revenue represents the portion of payments received for which the earnings process has not been completed. Deferred revenue expected to be recognized within the next 12 months is classified as a current liability. An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on the Company's best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the Company's existing license fee receivables, using historical experience. The Company reviews its allowance for doubtful accounts periodically. Past due accounts are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. To date, this is yet to occur. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. As of April 30, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company had approximately $22.3 million and $106.7 million, respectively, in cash equivalents. Concentration of Credit Risk The Company maintains its cash in bank deposit accounts (checking) that at times exceed federally insured limits. Approximately $28.7 million is subject to credit risk at April 30, 2017. However, these cash balances are maintained at creditworthy financial institutions. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximated fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because of the relatively short maturity dates on these instruments. The carrying amounts of the financing arrangements issued approximate fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because interest rates on these instruments approximate market interest rates after consideration of stated interest rates, anti-dilution protection and associated warrants. F- 7 Net Loss per Share Basic net income or loss per common share is computed by dividing net income or loss available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share give effect to dilutive options, warrants, convertible debt and other potential Common Stock outstanding during the period. In the case of a net loss the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from warrants, outstanding stock options and convertible debt are not included in the computation of diluted loss per share, as the effect would be anti-dilutive. In the case of net income, the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from these instruments that have intrinsic value are included in the diluted earnings per share. The table sets forth the number of potential shares of Common Stock that have been excluded from diluted net loss per share. Stock Based Compensation The Company has an equity plan which allows for the granting of stock options to its employees, directors and consultants for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at date of grant. The Company measures the cost of services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award. For employees and directors, the fair value of the award is measured on the grant date and for non-employees, the fair value of the award is generally measured based on contractual terms. The fair value amount is then recognized over the requisite service period, usually the vesting period, in both research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses on the statement of operations, depending on the nature of the services provided by the employees or consultants. The process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing stock-based compensation cost over their requisite service period involves significant assumptions and judgments. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Model ("BSM") for the remaining awards, which requires that the Company makes certain assumptions regarding: (i) the expected volatility in the market price of its Common Stock; (ii) dividend yield; (iii) risk-free interest rates; and (iv) the period of time employees are expected to hold the award prior to exercise (referred to as the expected holding period). As a result, if the Company revises its assumptions and estimates, stock-based compensation expense could change materially for future grants. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using fair value recognition and records stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings net of forfeited awards. As such, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost only for those stock-based awards that vest over their requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the individual grants. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, as part of its ongoing efforts to assist in the convergence of GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which is a new standard related to revenue recognition. Under the new standard, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised services or goods in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. The standard must be adopted using either a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or a modified retrospective approach. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers - Deferral of the Effective Date, which defers the implementation of this new standard to be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted effective January 1, 2017. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations, which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, in May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, and in December 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amend certain aspects of the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. We are currently evaluating which transition approach we will utilize and the impact of adopting this accounting standard on the Company's financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). The standard amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets and making targeted changes to lessor accounting. ASU 2016-02 will be effective beginning in the first quarter of 2019. Early adoption of ASU 2016-02 is permitted. The new leases standard requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application, with an option to use certain transition relief. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on the Company's financial statements. F- 8 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." The standard significantly changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that aren't measured at fair value through net income. The standard will replace today's "incurred loss" approach with an "expected loss" model for instruments measured at amortized cost. For available-for-sale debt securities, entities will be required to record allowances rather than reduce the carrying amount, as they do today under the other-than-temporary impairment model. It also simplifies the accounting model for purchased credit-impaired debt securities and loans. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods therein. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods therein. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, "Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business." The amendments in this Update clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of businesses. The amendments in this Update provide a screen to determine when a set is not a business. If the screen is not met, it (1) requires that to be considered a business, a set must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output and (2) removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements. This Update is the final version of Proposed ASU 2015-330 Business Combinations (Topic 805) Clarifying The Definition of a Business, which has been deleted. The amendments in this Update are effective for all entities for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, "Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting" to provide clarity and reduce both (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments in this Update provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. This Update is the final version of Proposed ASU 2016-360-Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718)-Scope of Modification Accounting, which has been deleted. The amendments in this Update are effective for all entities for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective accounting pronouncements, if adopted, would have a material impact on the accompanying condensed financial statements. 3. INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company's investment securities at amortized cost as of April 30, 2017 and October 31, 2016: All of the Company's investments mature within the next 12 months. F- 9 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment consists of the following: Depreciation expense for the three and six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 was $179,823, $337,403, $49,090 and $95,124, respectively. 5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Pursuant to our license agreement with the University of Pennsylvania ("Penn"), the Company is billed actual patent expenses as they are passed through from Penn and are billed directly from our patent attorney. The following is a summary of intangible assets as of the end of the following fiscal periods: The expirations of the existing patents range from 2017 to 2037 but the expirations can be extended based on market approval if granted and/or based on existing laws and regulations. Capitalized costs associated with patent applications that are abandoned without future value are charged to expense when the determination is made not to pursue the application. Patent applications having a net book value of $89,881, $89,881, $- and $- were abandoned and were charged to Research and Development Expenses in the statement of operations for the three and six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Amortization expense for intangible assets is included in research and development expenses and aggregated $77,745, $152,155, $60,798 and $118,744 for the three and six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as follows: Year ended October 31, 6. ACCRUED EXPENSES The following table represents the major components of accrued expenses: F- 10 7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Warrants A summary of changes in warrants for the six months ended April 30, 2017 is as follows: At April 30, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 3.09 million of its total 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as equity (equity warrants). At issuance, equity warrants are recorded at their relative fair values, using the Relative Fair Value Method, in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet. The equity warrants can only be settled through the issuance of shares and are not subject to anti-dilution provisions. Warrant Liability At April 30, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 18,000 of its total approximately 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as liability warrants (liability warrants). The Company utilizes the BSM to calculate the fair value of these warrants at issuance and at each subsequent reporting date. The liability warrants contain a cash settlement provision in the event of a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Common Stock purchase warrant). Any changes in the fair value of the warrant liability (i.e. the total fair value of all outstanding liability warrants at the balance sheet date) between reporting periods will be reported on the statement of operations. At April 30, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the fair value of the warrant liability was $- and $20,156, respectively. For the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company reported a gain of $10,652 and $592, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. For the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company reported a gain of $20,156 and $49,874, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. In determining the fair value of the warrant liability at April 30, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: 8. SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Employment Agreements Management voluntarily purchases restricted stock directly from the Company at market price. The respective stock purchases occur on the last trading day of each month. This voluntary election is outlined in each of Daniel J. O'Connor, Chief Executive Officer and President, Robert G. Petit, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, and Sara M. Bonstein, Executive Vice President and Secretary, Chief Financial Officer, (each an "Executive"), employment agreements. The table below reflects the purchases of each Executive: For the three months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recorded stock compensation expense of $37,308 in the statement of operations for the portion of management salaries voluntarily paid in stock representing 4,395 shares of its Common Stock (3,224 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the three months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded a similar stock compensation expense of $56,926 in the statement of operations representing 8,028 shares of its Common Stock (5,785 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). F- 11 For the six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recorded a similar stock compensation expense of $79,324 in the statement of operations representing 9,711 shares of its Common Stock (7,295 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). For the six months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded stock compensation expense of $121,257 in the statement of operations for the portion of management salaries voluntarily paid in stock representing 15,088 shares of its Common Stock (10,732 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes). From 2013 to present, in addition to the purchases of Common Stock set forth in the above table, Mr. O'Connor has also purchased an additional 164,909 shares of Common Stock out of his personal funds at the then market price for an aggregate consideration of $689,004. These purchases consisted of the conversion of amounts due to Mr. O'Connor under a promissory note given by Mr. O'Connor to the Company in 2012 of approximately $66,500 for 21,091 shares, 2013 base salary which he elected to receive in Common Stock of approximately $186,555 for 34,752 shares (21,489 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), 2013 and 2014 cash bonuses voluntarily requested to receive in equity of $214,359 for 62,064 shares (57,990 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), fiscal 2014 voluntary request to purchase stock directly from the Company at market price purchases of $68,750 for 21,687 shares (15,950 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), fiscal 2015 voluntary request to purchase stock directly from the Company at market price purchases of $88,840 for 8,482 shares (7,556 on a net basis after employee payroll taxes), and purchases of the Company's Common Stock in the October 2013 and March 2014 public offerings of 13,500 shares for $54,000 and 3,333 shares for $10,000. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) A summary of the Company's RSU activity and related information for the six months ended April 30, 2017 is as follows: As of April 30, 2017, there was approximately $9,247,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 2.19 years. As of April 30, 2017, the aggregate intrinsic value of non-vested RSUs was approximately $9,814,000. Employee Stock Awards Common Stock issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements and employee excellence awards totaled 155,149 (126,504 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes) and 134,239 shares for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 was $1,674,989 and $876,228, respectively. Common Stock issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements and employee excellence awards totaled 243,809 shares (215,164 shares on a net basis after employee payroll taxes) and 372,368 shares during the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 was $2,989,612 and $2,733,304, respectively. Furthermore, non-executive employees were entitled to receive a performance-based year-end cash bonus. Several non-executive employees voluntarily requested to be paid all or a portion of their cash bonus in the Company's Common Stock instead of cash. During the six months ended April 30, 2016, the total fair value of these equity purchases was $102,022, or 9,150 shares of the Company's Common Stock. Director Stock Awards Common stock issued to Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership totaled 30,000 and 61,767 shares for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 was $98,315 and $311,205, respectively. Common stock issued to Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership totaled 30,000 and 93,534 shares for the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 was $199,943 and $622,410, respectively. F- 12 Stock Options A summary of changes in the stock option plan for the six months ended April 30, 2017 is as follows: Total compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options, recognized in the statement of operations for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, was $3,006,763 and $3,280,517, respectively. For the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options was $6,190,221 and $9,952,502, respectively. During the six months ended April 30, 2017, 556,952 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of $3,542,215. During the six months ended April 30, 2016, 1,385,000 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of $14,837,970. As of April 30, 2017, there was approximately $14,678,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 1.44 years. As of April 30, 2017, the aggregate intrinsic value of vested and exercisable options was approximately $48,000. In determining the fair value of the stock options granted during the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: Shares Issued to Consultants During the three months ended April 30, 2017, 44,312 shares of Common Stock valued at $379,350 were issued to consultants for services, of which $230,100 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $247,100 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. During the three months ended April 30, 2016, 65,893 shares of Common Stock valued at $570,001 were issued to consultants for services. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. During the six months ended April 30, 2017, 76,812 shares of Common Stock valued at $692,950 were issued to consultants for services, of which $75,000 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $247,100 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. During the six months ended April 30, 2016, 89,017 shares of Common Stock valued at $845,088 were issued to consultants for services. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense included in the Statement of Operations by expense category for the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively: F- 13 9. COLLABORATION AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS Especificos Stendhal SA de CV On February 3, 2016, the Company entered into a Co-Development and Commercialization Agreement (the "Stendhal Agreement") with Especificos Stendhal SA de CV ("Stendhal"), for Advaxis' lead Lm Technology immunotherapy, Axalimogene filolisbac , in HPV-associated cancers. Under the terms of the Stendhal Agreement, Stendhal will pay $10 million ("Support Payments") towards the expense of AIM2CERV over the duration of the trial. Certain internal expenses of Stendhal up to $1 million shall be counted towards the $10 million in Support Payments. The Support Payments are contingent upon Advaxis achieving annual project milestones. The Company considered the provisions of the research and development and collaboration guidance in determining how to recognize the Support Payments to be received from Stendhal. The Company determined the Stendhal Agreement should be accounted for within the scope of collaboration arrangement accounting guidance. Furthermore, the Company determined that Advaxis is the principal in the Stendhal Agreement. As a result, the Company will account for the Support Payments as a reduction of Research and Development Expenses in the statement of operations. During the six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company reached the annual project milestones and recorded the first expected Support Payment of $3,000,000 as Other Receivables on the balance sheet. In May 2017, the Company received the $3,000,000 Support Payment from Stendhal. Sellas Life Science Group On February 27, 2017, the Company entered into a license agreement with Sellas Life Science Group ("Sellas") to develop a novel cancer immunotherapy agent using Advaxis' proprietary Lm-based antigen delivery technology with SELLAS' patented WT1 targeted heteroclitic peptide antigen mixture (galinpepimut-S)). Pursuant to the agreement, Advaxis will conduct all pre-clinical activities required for an IND filing and Sellas will be responsible for all clinical development and commercial activities. Advaxis will receive future payments of up to $358 million from SELLAS if certain development, regulatory, and commercial milestones are met. SELLAS has agreed to pay Advaxis single-digit to low double-digit royalties based on worldwide net sales upon commercialization. If SELLAS sublicenses its rights, Advaxis will receive a percentage of applicable sublicense revenue paid. 10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES: Legal Proceedings Knoll On August 21, 2015, Knoll Capital Management L.P. filed a complaint against the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery. In lieu of continuing to unnecessarily incur litigation expenses, on April 27, 2017, the Company settled the matter for a non-material amount, predominately reimbursed by the Company's insurance, and the parties entered into a definitive confidential settlement agreement. The Company expressly denies any admission or wrongdoing and the settlement was entered into solely for the purpose of avoiding the burden, inconvenience, and expense of further litigation. On May 11, 2017, following resolution of the matter by the parties, the Court granted a Stipulation Of Dismissal With Prejudice. Bono On August 20, 2015, a derivative complaint was filed by a purported Company shareholder in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey styled David Bono v. O'Connor, et al., Case No. 3:15-CV-006326-FLW-DEA (D.N.J. Aug. 20, 2015) (the "Bono Action"). The complaint is based on general allegations related to certain stock options granted to the individual defendants and generally alleges counts for breaches of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment. The complaint also alleges additional claims for violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and for waste of corporate assets. The complaint seeks damages and costs of an unspecified amount, disgorgement of compensation obtained by the individual defendants, and injunctive relief. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Bono Action. On May 23, 2016, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey issued an opinion and order granting in part and denying in part defendants' motion to dismiss. Specifically, the court denied the motion to dismiss as to the breach of fiduciary duty claim and unjust enrichment claim against the three members of the Compensation Committee, but dismissed without prejudice the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the other eight individual defendants [O'Connor, Khleif, McKearn, Patton, Bonstein, Mauro, Mayes, and Petit]. The court dismissed without prejudice the Section 14(a) disclosure claim and waste claims against all defendants. On October 5, 2016, the court denied plaintiff's motion for reconsideration of its May 23 order. On April 13, 2017 ,the parties advised the Court that they had reached a tentative agreement in principle to settled the action, which is still subject to negotiating an award of attorneys' fees and expenses to Plaintiffs' counsel and a stipulation of settlement, and, ultimately, Court approval. At this stage of the proceeding, the Company does not express any opinion as to likely outcome, but the Company intends to defend the action vigorously. General The Company is from time to time involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. The Company does not believe that any of these claims and proceedings against it is likely to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. F- 14 Operating Leases The Company's corporate offices are currently located at 305 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. Future minimum payments of the Company's operating leases are as follows: Year ended October 31, 11 . SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On May 1, 2017, the Company granted to executives 258,758 RSUs and 145,749 PRSUs. The RSUs and PRSUs vest annually in three equal annual installments on November 1, 2017, November 1, 2018 and November 1, 2019. On May 30, 2017, the Company announced a clinical development collaboration with BMS to evaluate ADXS-DUAL, its second investigational immunotherapy targeting HPV-associated cancers, and BMS' PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, Opdivo (nivolumab), as a potential combination treatment option for women with metastatic cervical cancer. F- 15 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements as a result of many known or unknown factors, including, but not limited to, those factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and incorporated by reference herein. See also the "Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" set forth at the beginning of this report. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements, and the related footnotes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this report, and in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis and the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016. Overview We are a late-stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of our proprietary Lm -based antigen delivery system with our lead program in Phase 3 development. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm -based strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. Axalimogene filolisbac Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac is an Lm based antigen delivery system directed against HPV and designed to target cells expressing the HPV. It is currently under investigation in three HPV-associated cancers: cervical cancer, head and neck cancer, and anal cancer, either as a monotherapy or in combination . Cervical Cancer There are 527,624 new cases of cervical cancer caused by HPV worldwide every year, and 12,000 new cases in the U.S. alone, according to the WHO Human Papillomavirus and Related Cancers in the World Summary Report 2016 ("WHO"). Current preventative vaccines cannot protect all women who are infected with this very common virus. Challenges with acceptance, accessibility, and compliance have resulted in approximately a third of young women being vaccinated in the United States and even less in other countries around the world. We completed a randomized Phase 2 clinical study (Lm-LLO-E7-15), conducted exclusively in India, in 110 women with recurrent/refractory cervical cancer. The final results showed that 34.9% (38/109) of patients were alive at 12 months, 24.8% (27/109) of patients were Long-term Survivors ("LTS") alive greater than 18 months. Of the 15 patients consenting to further follow-up beyond 18 months, 12 (11%) achieved 24-month OS status (range 24 34+ months) at the time of study closure. LTS included not only patients with tumor shrinkage but also patients who had experienced stable disease or increased tumor burden. Investigator assessment of best Overall Response ("OR") was assessed in the efficacy population. These data demonstrated a best objective response rate (ORR; CR + PR) of 17.1% (N= 6). The mean duration of OR was 7.2 months. The disease control rate (CR + PR + SD) was 62.9% (N= 22) and the mean duration of stable disease was 5.2 months. The addition of cisplatin chemotherapy to axalimogene filolisbac in this study did not significantly improve overall survival or objective tumor response (p =0.9981). In this study, 109 patients received 254 doses of axalimogene filolisbac. Axalimogene filolisbac was found to be well tolerated with the majority of the AEs were mild to moderate in severity (566 of 704 reported AEs, 80.4%) and were not related to study drug (539 of 704 reported AEs, 76.6%). Four patients experienced a Grade 3 treatment-associated Serious Adverse Events ("SAE"). All observed treatment-related adverse events were infusion related and either self-resolved or responded readily to symptomatic treatment. We have reached an agreement with the FDA, under the Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") process, for a Phase 3 trial evaluating axalimogene filolisbac in patients with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer ("AIM2CERV" or "Advaxis Immunotherapy 2 Prevent Cervical Recurrence"). Pursuant to the SPA, the study has been determined by FDA to be adequate, well-designed, and suitable for registration. This study will be conducted in collaboration with the GOG/NRG Oncology, an independent international non-profit organization with the purpose of promoting excellence in the quality and integrity of clinical and basic scientific research in the field of gynecologic malignancies, we have initiated the AIM2CERV study to support a Biologics License Application ("BLA") submission in the U.S. and regulatory registration in other territories around the world. AIM2CERV is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, Phase 3 study of adjuvant axalimogene filolisbac, following primary chemoradiation treatment of women with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer ("HRLACC"). The primary objective of AIM2CERV is to compare the disease free survival of axalimogene filolisbac to placebo administered in the adjuvant setting following standard concurrent chemotherapy and radiotherapy ("CCRT") administered with curative intent to patients with HRLACC. Secondary endpoints include examining overall survival and safety. Our goal is to develop a treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of cervical cancer recurrence after primary, standard of care treatment in women who are at high risk of recurrence. 4 Biocon Limited ("Biocon"), our co-development and commercialization partner for axalimogene filolisbac in India and key emerging markets, filed a Marketing Authorization Application ("MAA") for licensure of this immunotherapy in India. The Drug Controller General of India ("DCGI") accepted this MAA for review. The filing of the MAA was driven by several factors: (i) results from the Lm -LLO-E7-15 Phase 2 trial indicated that axalimogene filolisbac was well tolerated and showed significant clinical activity in recurrent/refractory cervical cancer; (ii) cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among Indian women (according to WHO, there are 122,844 new cases per year with 67,544 deaths reported); and (iii) current treatment options for non-operable refractory/recurrent disease are limited in India. As part of the MAA review process, Biocon met with the Scientific Expert Committee (the "Committee"). The Committee indicated that proof of concept for this novel immunotherapy has been established. The Committee advised Biocon to obtain data from a Phase 3 clinical trial in patients with recurrent cervical cancer who have failed prior chemo and radiation therapies. The face-to-face interaction with the Committee provided Biocon and Advaxis with valuable insight for future development and the companies are evaluating next steps. We have a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune, the global biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca, and are conducting a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two-part study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab, as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck ("SCCHN"). For the axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, the dose-escalation phase has been completed. As reported at the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer ("SITC") 2016 annual meeting, preliminary results from the dose escalation portion of the study showed that there were no dose limiting toxicities observed, and the safety profile was consistent with previous findings for both axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab. The recommended phase 2 dose was established as 1x109 Colony Forming Units ("CFU") for axalimogene filolisbac and 10 mg/kg for durvalumab. In early data reported from this ongoing trial, one patient with cervical cancer achieved a complete response, which remains ongoing after 16 months of follow-up and one patient, also with cervical cancer, achieved a partial response with subsequent disease progression. In addition, two patients with HNSCC achieved stable disease. Treatment related adverse events ("TRAE") were reported in 91 percent of patients; the majority were either grade 1 or grade 2 events such as chills, fever, nausea and hypotension. Grade 3 TRAEs occurred in three patients, and one patient experienced a grade 4 event. We have commenced enrollment in the Part A (20 patients with SCCHN) and B (90 patients with cervical cancer) expansion phases. Accrual is ongoing. The GOG Foundation, Inc. (now a member of NRG Oncology), under the sponsorship of the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program ("CTEP") of the National Cancer Institute ("NCI"), conducted GOG-0265, an open-label, single arm Phase 2 study of axalimogene filolisbac in persistent or recurrent cervical cancer (patients must have received at least 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of their recurrent/metastatic disease, not including that administered as a component of primary treatment) at numerous clinical sites in the U.S. The study was a Simon 2-stage design. The primary efficacy endpoint was the 12-month survival rate, with the objective of the secondary efficacy endpoints to evaluate progression-free survival, overall survival and objective tumor response. The primary safety endpoints were to evaluate the number of patients with dose-limiting toxicities and the frequency and severity of adverse effects. In order to evaluate the study's primary endpoint of the 12-month overall survival rate, the GOG's protocol featured a prospectively-defined logistic model-based calculation of the expected 12-month survival rate using key predictive factors significantly related to survival and derived from 17 serially conducted GOG/NRG 2-stage studies of inactive agents in PRmCC involving approximately 500 patients. This accumulated data by GOG used a consistent protocol design and a similar data collection methodology resulting in a robust and homogeneous patient dataset for the per protocol analysis of the primary endpoint. Per the study protocol, this logistic model-based calculation was then used as a comparator for evaluating the 12-month survival rate of axalimogene filolisbac actually observed. The first stage of enrollment in GOG-0265 was successfully completed with 26 patients treated and met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient enrollment. Clinical data from the first stage of GOG-0265 was presented at the American Gynecological & Obstetrical Society ("AGOS") annual meeting on September 17, 2015. Overall survival at 12 months was 38.5% (10/26) (the conditional power needed in order to progress to Stage 2 was 20%), and, among patients who had received the full treatment regimen of 3 doses of axalimogene filolisbac, the 12-month survival rate was 55.6% (10/18). The adverse events observed in the first stage of the study were consistent with those reported in other clinical studies with axalimogene filolisbac. Stage 2 of the study began enrollment in February 2015 which included a protocol amendment to allow patients to continue to receive repeat cycles of therapy until disease progression. Stage 2 enrollment was temporarily suspended with the clinical hold in October 2015. Prior to re-initiating enrollment of a new cohort of Stage 2 patients, Advaxis and the GOG Foundation/NRG Oncology examined the 12-month survival rate and safety data obtained from the 24 patients who had previously enrolled in Stage 2. The Stage 2 population demonstrated that treatment with axalimogene filolisbac resulted in a 37.5% (9/24) 12-month survival rate. This data was consistent with the findings in Stage 1 that showed a 38.5% 12-month survival rate, despite a greater proportion of Stage 2 patients having failed bevacizumab treatment. Taken together, the available data from both stages of GOG-0265 comprise a Phase 2 clinical trial with 50 subjects with a 12 month survival rate of 38% (19/50). The protocol defined logistic model-based calculation of the expected 12-month milestone survival rate was calculated to be 24.5 percent using the key predictors from the patients enrolled in the study. The 12 month survival rate of 38 percent of axalimogene filolisbac represents a 52 percent improvement over the expected 12-month milestone survival rate of 24.5 percent. Overall, 28 out of 50 (56%) patients experienced a Grade 1 or Grade 2 TRAE associated with axalimogene filolisbac infusion. The most common (>30%) Grade 1 or Grade 2 TRAEs were fatigue, chills, anemia, nausea and fever. Eighteen (36%) patients experienced a Grade 3 TRAE and two patients experienced a Grade 4 AE, considered possibly related to treatment was a klebsiella lung infection in one patient, and hypotension/cytokine related symptoms in another patient. In October 2016, upon review of these findings, we announced early closure of GOG-0265. Results from the GOG-0265 study were presented as an oral late-breaker presentation at the Society of Gynecologic Oncology ("SGO") annual meeting on March 14, 2017. Based on these data, we plan on pursuing regulatory opportunities for this unmet medical need in Europe in 2017. 5 In addition, pending FDA feedback, we plan to initiate a global, randomized, registrational quality clinical trial in 2017 in the metastatic cervical cancer setting with ADXS-DUAL, our second immunotherapy targeting HPV-associated cancers, in combination with BMS' PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, OPDIVO (nivolumab). Subject to the positive outcome of this study, we plan to file for drug approval for metastatic cervical cancer in combination treatment. Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA orphan drug designation for invasive FIGO Stage II-IV cervical cancer, and has received Fast Track designation from the FDA for high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer patients. Axalimogene filolisbac has also been classified as an advanced-therapy medicinal product ("ATMP") for the treatment of cervical cancer by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Advanced Therapies ("CAT"). The CAT is the EMA's committee responsible for assessing the quality, safety and efficacy of ATMPs. The Company has commenced the CAT certification procedure and review of preclinical and CMC information is underway for potential inclusion in the Marketing Authorization Application. Head and Neck Cancer SCCHN is the most frequently occurring malignant tumor of the head and neck and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. More than 90% of SCCHNs originate from the mucosal linings of the oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx and 70% of these cancers are caused by HPV, with the incidence increasing every year. According to the American Cancer Society, head and neck cancer accounts for about 3% of all cancers in the United States. Approximately 12,000 new cases will be diagnosed in the United Stated in 2016 according to the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results ("SEER") database. The safety and immunogenicity of axalimogene filolisbac is being evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND at Mount Sinai and Baylor College of Medicine in a pre-surgery "window of opportunity" trial in patients with HPV-positive head and neck cancer. This clinical trial is the first study to evaluate the immunologic and pathologic effects of axalimogene filolisbac in patients when they are initially diagnosed with HPV-associated head and neck cancer. The study is designed to show that axalimogene filolisbac is highly immunogenic and worth further investigation if the overall rate of vaccine-induced T-cell responses is 75 percent or more. Preliminary clinical data from this trial was presented at the American Association of Cancer Research ("AACR") annual meeting on April 18, 2016. The data from eight of the nine patients enrolled in Stage 1 who were treated with axalimogene filolisbac confirmed that the study met the target for the overall rate of vaccine-induced T-cell response. The results demonstrated that, HPV E7- and/or E6-specific T cell responses increased in the peripheral blood in five of the study patients. Increased infiltration of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were observed in the Tumor Immune Microenvironment ("TME") of four patients, with a reduction of FOXP3+ regulatory T cells within the tumors of 3/6 patients. Increased T cell responses to HPV E6 supports enhanced immune activity against additional tumor targets. Changes to the TME included cytotoxic T cell infiltration into the post-resection tumor, increased immune activation, a reduction of regulatory T cells, infiltration of cytotoxic T cells, and increased expression of inflammatory activation markers. In addition, fluctuations of circulating serum cytokine were observed suggesting consumption by activated T cells and migration of T cells to the TME. This study met its Stage 1 primary objective and is now advancing into the second stage of the clinical study. Stage 2 of the clinical study is currently accruing patients. As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to collaborate on a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with durvalumab (MEDI4736), for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA orphan drug designation for HPV-associated head and neck cancer. Anal Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, nearly all squamous cell anal cancers are linked to infection by HPV, the same virus that causes cervical cancer. According to the SEER database, approximately 7,500 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016. The safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac was evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND by Brown University in patients with high-risk locally advanced anal cancer. As of December 2016, 11 patients were enrolled and all patients who have completed radiation treatment and received treatment experienced a six-month complete response (n=9), with no evidence of recurrence. Eight of 9 patients (89%) are disease-free at a median follow-up of 34 months. These data were accepted for publication in the on-line journal at American Society of Clinical Oncology ("ASCO") 2017. In consideration of these data, no further enrollment in this study is planned and the investigator at Brown University is evaluating the opportunity to transition this study into a NCI-funded cooperative group trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac in a pivotal Phase 2/3 anal cancer trial, to be conducted by NRG Oncology. In advance of the foregoing, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group ("RTOG") Foundation for the conduct of such study. Depending on the Company's ability to agree upon the study design and budget, the Company plans to initiate a randomized, registrational quality study in high-risk locally advanced anal cancer. Similar to AIM2CERV, our goal for this monotherapy trial is to develop a treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of anal cancer recurrence after primary care treatment in patients who are at a high risk for recurrence. Subject to the positive outcome of this study, we plan to file for drug approval for high-risk locally advanced anal cancer. We are conducting a Phase 2 multi-center, open-label, Simon two-stage study ("FAWCETT" or "Fighting Anal-Cancer with CTL Enhancing Tumor Therapy"), testing axalimogene filolisbac in patients with persistent or recurrent metastatic anal cancer. FAWCETT is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of axalimogene filolisbac as a monotherapy in patients with HPV-associated metastatic anal cancer who have received at least one prior treatment regimen for the advanced disease. Patients will receive IV axalimogene filolisbac monotherapy (1x109 CFU) every 3 weeks for 2 years or until a discontinuation criterion is met. Stage 1 of the trial targeted enrollment of 36 patients with anal cancer whose disease recurred after receiving treatment, with an interim analysis planned on enrollment of 31 evaluable pts ( 1 post-baseline scan) and met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient enrollment. Prior to opening the second stage of this study, the company will evaluate its study design, including a monotherapy verses combination therapy approach. 6 Preliminary Stage 1 results from 29 of the planned evaluable patients showed 1 (3.5%) patient had a durable partial response lasting > 6 months (after progression on prior anti-PD-1 therapy) and 7 had stable disease (24%). Disease control rate was 28%. The current Kaplan Meier 6-month PFS estimate is 22%, indicating the study can proceed to Stage 2 of enrollment. Common ( 30%) TRAEs were grade 1-2 chills/rigors, fever, hypotension and vomiting. Grade 3 TRAEs of cytokine related symptoms (n=1; SAE), infusion related reactions (n=2; 1 SAE) and hypotension (n=2; 1 SAE) were reported. These results will be reported at the annual meeting of the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) in September 2017. Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for anal cancer. ADXS-DUAL Franchise ADXS-DUAL, our second immunotherapy targeting HPV-associated cancers, is an Lm based immunotherapy that secretes a fusion protein containing E7 protein antigens from both major families of HPV. We developed ADXS-DUAL by building on our learnings from the clinical development of axalimogene filolisbac and have incorporated additional HPV target antigens into our Lm bacterial vector. We have entered into a clinical development collaboration agreement with BMS to evaluate their PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, OPDIVO (nivolumab), in combination with ADXS-DUAL as a potential treatment option for women with metastatic cervical cancer. Pending FDA feedback, we plan to initiate a global, randomized, registrational quality trial in 2017 and will evaluate this combination regimen in women with persistent, recurrent or metastatic (squamous or non-squamous cell) carcinoma of the cervix who have failed at least one prior line of systemic chemotherapy. Under the terms of the agreement, each party will bear their own internal costs and provide its immunotherapy agents. We will sponsor the study and pay third-party costs. ADXS-PSA Franchise Prostate Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer is the second most common type of cancer found in American men. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in men, behind only lung cancer. One man in seven will get prostate cancer during his lifetime, and one man in 36 will die of this disease. About 180,890 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2016 according to the SEER database and accounts for approximately 11% of all new cancer cases. ADXS-PSA is an Lm based antigen delivery system designed to target the PSA antigen commonly overexpressed in prostate cancer. We have entered into a clinical trial collaboration and supply agreement with Merck & Co. ("Merck") to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and expansion study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, cohorts were successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x109 CFU and 1x1010 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The ADXS-PSA monotherapy portion of this clinical trial has been completed and accrual and patient treatment has begun in the cohort combining ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 Expressing Solid Tumors HER2 is overexpressed in a percentage of solid tumors including osteosarcoma. According to the SEER database and recent published literature, approximately 60-70% of osteosarcoma are HER2 positive, which is associated with poor outcomes for patients. ADXS-HER2 is an Lm based antigen delivery system designed to target HER2 expressing solid tumors including human and canine osteosarcoma. The FDA has cleared our IND application and we have initiated a Phase 1b study in patients with metastatic HER2-expressing cancers. Thereafter, we intend to initiate a clinical development program with ADXS-HER2 for the treatment of pediatric osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma Osteosarcoma affects about 400 children and teens in the U.S. every year, representing a small but significant unmet medical need that has seen little therapeutic improvement in decades. Osteosarcoma is considered a rare disease and may qualify for regulatory incentives including, but not limited to, orphan drug designation, patent term extension, market exclusivity, and development grants. Given the limited availability of new treatment options for osteosarcoma, and that it is an unmet medical need affecting a very small number of patients in the U.S. annually, we believe that, subject to regulatory approval, the potential to be on the market may be accelerated. 7 Based on encouraging data discussed below from a veterinarian clinical study in which pet dogs with naturally occurring osteosarcoma were treated with ADXS-HER2, we intend to initiate a clinical development program with ADXS-HER2 for the treatment of human osteosarcoma. Both veterinary and human osteosarcoma specialists consider canine osteosarcoma to be the best model for human osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for osteosarcoma and has received Fast Track designation from the FDA for patients with newly-diagnosed, non-metastatic, surgically-resectable osteosarcoma. Canine Osteosarcoma Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone tumor in dogs, accounting for roughly 85% of tumors on the canine skeleton. Approximately 10,000 dogs a year (predominately middle to older-aged dogs and larger breeds) are diagnosed with osteosarcoma in the United States. This cancer initially presents as lameness and oftentimes visible swelling on the leg. Current standard of care treatment is amputation immediately after diagnosis, followed by chemotherapy. Median survival time with standard of care is ten to twelve months. For dogs that cannot undergo amputation, palliative radiation and analgesics are frequently employed and median survival times range from three to five months. Under the direction of Dr. Nicola Mason, the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine is conducting studies in companion dogs evaluating the safety and efficacy of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of naturally occurring canine osteosarcoma. In the initial study, the primary endpoint was to determine the maximum tolerated dose of ADXS-HER2. Secondary endpoints for the study were progression-free survival and overall survival. The findings of the Phase 1 clinical trial in dogs with osteosarcoma suggest that ADXS-HER2 is safe and well tolerated at doses up to 3.3 x 10 9 CFU with no evidence of significant cardiac, hematological, or other systemic toxicities. The study determined that ADXS-HER2 is able to delay or prevent metastatic disease and significantly prolong overall survival in dogs with osteosarcoma that had minimal residual disease following standard of care (amputation and follow-up chemotherapy). This work was recently published in the September 2016 issue of Clinical Cancer Research. Dogs receiving ADXS-HER2 following standard of care (n=18) had a progression free survival of 615 days and a median survival time of 956 days. These results compared favorably to a historical control group where the median survival time was 423 days. A second study conducted by Dr. Mason has evaluated the effects of combination palliative radiation with ADXS-HER2 on dogs with primary osteosarcoma who were unsuitable for amputation (n=15). Preliminary data was presented at the 2015 ACVIM Forum and showed that repeat doses of ADXS-HER2 administered after palliative radiation were well tolerated with no systemic or cardiac toxicity. In long-term follow-up, several dogs have experienced prolonged survival times ranging from 21 to 30 months. On March 19, 2014, we entered into a definitive Exclusive License Agreement with Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), where we granted Aratana an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, certain of our proprietary technology that enables Aratana to develop and commercialize animal health products that will be targeted for treatment of osteosarcoma and other cancer indications in animals. A product license request has been filed by Aratana for ADXS-HER2 (also known as AT-014 by Aratana) for the treatment of canine osteosarcoma with the USDA. Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed and data, when available, needs to be analyzed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, we understand that Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2017. The Company does not anticipate significant revenue from this collaboration in 2017. Aratana has been granted exclusive worldwide rights by us to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 in animals. Aratana is further responsible for the conduct of clinical research with ADXS-Survivin in canine/feline lymphoma, as well as pending investigations of two additional Advaxis constructs in animals. ADXS-NEO Franchise In August 2016, we entered into a global agreement (the "Agreement") with Amgen Inc. ("Amgen") for the development and commercialization of ADXS-NEO, a novel, investigational cancer immunotherapy treatment, using our proprietary Lm Technology attenuated bacterial vector which activates a patient's immune system to respond against multiple potential unique mutations, or neoepitopes, contained in and identified from an individual patient's tumor through DNA sequencing. ADXS-NEO is an individual Lm-based antigen delivery technology combined with a fusion protein based on information captured by comparing a patient's own DNA with the DNA from that patient's tumor. It will target multiple patient specific neoantigens resulting from mutations found within each individual patient's tumor that are not present in normal cells. Each ADXS-NEO construct is designed to target the non-synonymous mutations found in the tumor, which is unique to the each patient's cancer. ADXS-NEO works by presenting a large payload of neoantigens directly into dendritic cells within the patient's immune system and stimulating a T-cell response against cancerous cells. The FDA has cleared the IND application of our new precision immunotherapy (ADXS-NEO) for the treatment of cancers and we plan to initiate a Phase 1 study in 2017 under our Agreement with Amgen. The goal of MINE is to use our Lm Technology to develop patient specific neo-epitope targeted immunotherapies based on mutations found in an individual patient's tumor ("ADXS-NEO"). MINE will first focus on a preclinical study of our new construct approach to evaluate the immunologic effects and anti-tumor activity of a personalized immunotherapy in mouse tumor models to inform subsequent clinical trials. Clinical studies using ADXS-NEO are in active development in collaboration with our partner, Amgen. Further, we have entered into various research collaboration, including the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, to advance the study of neoepitope-based, personalized cancer therapy as part of the Tumor neoantigEn SeLection Alliance ("TESLA") initiative. 8 ADXS-HOT Franchise (preclinical) We are developing Lm-based constructs that could target common (public or shared) or "hot-spot" mutations in tumor driver genes. ADXS-HOT products may target acquired public mutations in tumor driver genes that are shared by multiple patients, and could have greater immunogenicity than the natural sequence peptides in normal cells. ADXS-HOT products are expected to be "off the shelf" and ready to administer for multiple patients. DNA sequencing is not required and presence of the hot-spot target can usually be determined by a rapid biomarker test. The ability to combine multiple constructs may increase coverage and the potential for clinical benefit. Lm-based Combination Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac and Durvalumab As further described above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to conduct a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736), as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. For the axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, the dose-escalation cohort has been completed. We have commenced enrollment in the Part A (20 patients with SCCHN) and B (90 patients with cervical cancer) expansion phases. Accrual is ongoing. ADXS-DUAL and OPDIVO (nivolumab) As further described above, we have entered into a clinical development collaboration agreement with BMS to evaluate their PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, OPDIVO (nivolumab), in combination with ADXS-DUAL as a potential treatment option for women with metastatic cervical cancer. Pending FDA feedback, we plan to initiate a global, randomized, registrational quality trial in 2017 and will evaluate this combination regimen in women with persistent, recurrent or metastatic (squamous or non-squamous cell) carcinoma of the cervix who have failed at least one prior line of systemic chemotherapy. ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab) As further described above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with Merck to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and expansion study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, cohorts were successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x109 CFU and 1x1010 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The ADXS-PSA monotherapy portion of this clinical trial has been completed and accrual and patient treatment has begun in the cohort combining ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). Lm-based Antigen Delivery System- (preclinical) We are developing other ways to exploit the potential of our Lm Technology including, but not limited to, the use of Lm Technology in Infectious Disease. We have various preclinical collaborations with academic and other centers of excellence to explore the potential opportunities in this disease area. Preclinical data of detoxified Listeriolysin O ("dtLLO") shows potential use as an immunologic adjuvant or carrier for vaccinations. We intend to continue to explore the potential of dtLLO as an adjuvant molecule in cancer as well as development of potential vaccines for infectious diseases. 9 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2017 AND 2016 Revenue During the quarter ended April 30, 2017, the Company recorded revenue of $3,425,380. The Company recognized revenue from the collaboration agreement with Amgen related to amortization of the upfront fees received. We did not record any revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2016. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 were categorized as follows: Axalimogene Filolisbac Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac expenses were $2,001,228 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $2,624,615 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, a decrease of $623,387. The decrease resulted from the first expected Support Payment of $3,000,000 under the Stendhal Agreement resulting in a reduction of expense. This was mostly offset by an increase in startup activities for additional countries in the Phase 3 AIM2CERV study. ADXS-PSA Franchise PSA expenses were $762,650 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to $419,748 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $342,902. The increase resulted from higher costs incurred due to the active enrollment of an expansion cohort on the Phase 1/2 study in combination with Merck's KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 expenses were $519,582 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $897,585 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, a decrease of $378,003. The decrease was attributable to trial start-up and enrollment phasing in the prior year. ADXS-NEO Franchise NEO expenses were $646,078 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $96,576 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $549,502. The increase was attributable to IND activities and Phase 1 start-up costs incurred during the three months ended April 30, 2017. Personnel Expenses Personnel expenses were $5,800,286 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $2,886,504 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, a increase of $2,913,782. The increase was attributable to an increase in headcount. Professional Fees Professional fees were $3,128,173 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $1,193,585 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, and increase of $1,934,588. The increase was attributable to an increase in drug manufacturing process validation costs. 10 Laboratory Costs Laboratory costs were $2,830,837 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $386,288 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $2,444,549. An increase in headcount and the expansion of laboratory space accounted for the increase. Other Expenses Other expenses were $619,903 for the three months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $253,509 for the three months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $366,394. The increase was due to additional infrastructure costs incurred to support the increased headcount, laboratory expansion and abandoned patent applications. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expenses were approximately $7.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2017, compared with approximately $6.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of approximately $1.0 million. The increase is attributable to an increase in professional fees and office expenses that resulted from an increase in headcount, as well as a litigation settlement. Interest Income Interest income was $184,747 for the three months ended April 30, 2017, compared with $70,389 for the three months ended April 30, 2016. The increase in interest income earned was attributable to an increase in interest rates as well as cash resulting from sales of the Company's common share and an up-front payment received in conjunction with the collaboration agreement with Amgen. The cash was invested in held-to-maturity investments and a savings account. Changes in Fair Values For the three months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $10,652 due to a smaller range of share prices used in the calculation of the Black-Scholes Model ("BSM") volatility input. For the three months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash expense from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $592 due to an increase in the fair value of liability warrants primarily resulting from a significant increase in our share price from $6.82 at April 30, 2016 to $7.74 at April 30, 2016. 11 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2017 AND 2016 Revenue During the six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recorded revenue of $7,216,222. The Company recognized $6,966,222 of revenue from the collaboration agreement with Amgen related to amortization of the upfront fees received. In addition, $250,000 of revenue was due to the receipt of an annual exclusive license fee from GBP for the development and commercialization of axalimogene filolisbac. During the six months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded revenue of $250,000 due to the receipt of an annual exclusive license fee from GBP for the development and commercialization of axalimogene filolisbac. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expenses for the six months ended April 30, 2017 and 2016 were categorized as follows: Axalimogene Filolisbac Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac expenses were $5,965,813 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $5,534,736 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $431,077. The increase resulted from an increase in startup activities for additional countries in AIM2CERV. This was mostly offset by the first expected Support Payment of $3,000,000 under the Stendhal Agreement resulting in a reduction of expense. ADXS-PSA Franchise PSA expenses were $1,649,280 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 as compared to $1,017,206 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $632,074. The increase resulted from higher costs incurred due to the active enrollment of an expansion cohort on the Phase 1/2 study in combination with Merck's KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 expenses were $990,546 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $932,735 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $57,811. HER2 expenses during the six months ended April 30, 2017 were consistent with the comparable prior period. ADXS-NEO Franchise NEO expenses were $1,043,852 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $407,086 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $636,766. The increase was attributable to IND activities and Phase 1 start-up costs incurred during the six months ended April 30, 2017. Personnel Expenses Personnel expenses were $10,555,124 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $10,299,175 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $255,949. The increase was attributable to an increase in headcount that was mostly offset by stock based compensation for past employees in the prior period. Professional Fees Professional fees were $4,698,902 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $2,596,723 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $2,102,179. The increase was attributable to an increase in drug manufacturing process validation costs. 12 Laboratory Costs Laboratory costs were $4,100,568 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $637,976 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $3,462,592. An increase in headcount and the expansion of laboratory space accounted for the increase. Other Expenses Other expenses were $953,205 for the six months ended April 30, 2017 compared to $397,727 for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of $555,478. The increase was due to additional infrastructure costs incurred to support the increased headcount, laboratory expansion and abandoned patent applications. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expense were approximately $15.1 million for the six months ended April 30, 2017, compared with approximately $14.0 million for the six months ended April 30, 2016, an increase of approximately $1.1 million. The increase is attributable to an increase in professional fees and office expenses that resulted from an increase in headcount, as well as a litigation settlement. Interest Income Interest income was $329,884 for the six months ended April 30, 2017, compared with $142,189 for the six months ended April 30, 2016. The increase in interest income earned was attributable to an increase in interest rates as well as cash resulting from sales of the Company's common share and an up-front payment received in conjunction with the collaboration agreement with Amgen. The cash was invested in held-to-maturity investments and a savings account. Changes in Fair Values For the six months ended April 30, 2017, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $20,156 due to a smaller range of share prices used in the calculation of the Black-Scholes Model ("BSM") volatility input. For the six months ended April 30, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $49,874 due to a decrease in the fair value of liability warrants primarily resulting from a decrease in our share price from $11.09 at October 31, 2015 to $7.74 at April 30, 2016. Income Tax Expense During the six months ended April 30, 2017, we paid $50,000 in Taiwanese withholding taxes in connection with the revenue generated from an annual exclusive license fee from GBP. During the six months ended April 30, 2016, we paid $50,000 in Taiwanese withholding taxes in connection with the revenue generated from an annual exclusive license fee from GBP. The taxes paid were offset by receipt of a net cash amount of $35,774 in excess of what was recorded as Income Tax Receivable at October 31, 2015 from the sale of our state NOLs and research and development tax credits for the period ended October 31, 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our major sources of cash have been proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock, option and warrant exercises, and interest income. From October 2013 through May 2017, we raised approximately $221.8 million in gross proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock. We have not yet commercialized any drug, and we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approvals for our drug, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations, successfully compete with other available treatment options in the marketplace, overcome any clinical holds that the FDA may impose and successfully manufacture and commercialize our drug alone or in partnership. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even after we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates. As of April 30, 2017, the Company had approximately $115.3 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on its balance sheet. We believe our current cash position is sufficient to fund our business plan approximately through the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The actual amount of cash that we will need to operate is subject to many factors. Since our inception through April 30, 2017, the Company has reported accumulated net losses of approximately $245.3 million and recurring negative cash flows from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future. Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended April 30, 2017 was approximately $33.6 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and Research and Development (R&D) tax credits of approximately $2.5 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. 13 Cash used in operating activities for the six months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $16.8 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and Research and Development (R&D) tax credits of approximately $1.6 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2017 was approximately $49.0 million resulting from investments in held-to-maturity investments, purchases of property and equipment, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $5.4 million resulting from investments in held-to-maturity investments, purchases of property and equipment, construction of cleanroom and laboratory facilities, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash used by financing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2017 was approximately $161,000, resulting from taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $538,000, resulting from approximately $614,000 in proceeds received on option and warrant exercises. This was partially offset by approximately $76,000 in taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Our capital resources and operations to date have been funded primarily with the proceeds from public, private equity and debt financings, NOL tax sales and income earned on investments and grants. We have sustained losses from operations in each fiscal year since our inception, and we expect losses to continue for the indefinite future, due to the substantial investment in research and development. As of April 30, 2017 and October 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $245,255,483 and $207,706,825, respectively and shareholders' equity of $91,879,410 and $119,302,194, respectively. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately through second quarter of fiscal 2019. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of our current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan, extend payables and reduce overhead until sufficient additional capital is raised to support further operations. There can be no assurance that such a plan will be successful. Contractual Commitments and Obligations The disclosure of our contractual obligations and commitments was reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016. There have been no material changes from the contractual commitments and obligations previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K other than the changes described in Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 30, 2017, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures in the financial statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, and changes in the estimate of difference estimates that could have been selected could have material impact in our results of operations or financial condition. While we base our estimates and judgments on our experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results could differ from those estimates and the differences could be material. The most significant estimates impact the following transactions or account balances: stock compensation, warrant liability valuation and impairment of intangibles. See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses significant accounting policies. 14 New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses new accounting pronouncements.ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 1 ADVAXIS, INC. STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 2 ADVAXIS, INC. CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 3 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information Supplemental Schedule of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed financial statements. F- 4 ADVAXIS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) 1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS Advaxis, Inc. ("Advaxis" or the "Company") is a late-stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary Lm-based antigen delivery products. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes ("Lm" or "Lm TechnologyTM") bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-based strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. Advaxis has developed a strong foothold in the development of immunotherapies, including both axalimogene filolisbac and ADXS-DUAL (ADXS-602) for HPV-related cancers. Axalimogene filolisbac is an Lm based antigen delivery product directed against the Human Papilloma Virus ("HPV") and designed to target cells expressing the HPV. ADXS-DUAL, the Company's second immunotherapy targeting HPV-associated cancers, is an Lm-based immunotherapy that secretes a fusion protein containing E7 protein antigens from both major families of HPV. The Company completed a randomized Phase 2 study in 110 patients with recurrent metastatic cervical cancer that was shown to have a manageable safety profile, apparent improved survival and objective tumor responses. In addition, the Gynecologic Oncology Group ("GOG") Foundation, Inc., now part of NRG Oncology, conducted a cooperative group / Company sponsored Phase 2 open-label clinical study of axalimogene filolisbac in patients with persistent or recurrent metastatic cervical cancer with documented disease progression. The study, known as GOG-0265, has successfully completed the first and second stages in its Simon 2-stage design. Upon early closure of this study, the results from both stages totaling 50 patients dosed resulted in a 12-month survival rate of 38.0% with a manageable safety profile. The Company has initiated a registrational Phase 3 clinical trial for the adjuvant treatment of women with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer and, pending FDA feedback, is planning to initiate a global, randomized, registrational quality clinical trial in 1H 2018 in the metastatic cervical cancer setting with ADXS-DUAL in combination with Bristol-Myers Squibb's ("BMS") PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, OPDIVO (nivolumab). The Company also plans to pursue registrational opportunities in Europe in 2017 for the metastatic cervical cancer setting as a monotherapy with axalimogene filolisbac. Axalimogene filolisbac has received United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") orphan drug designation for three HPV-associated cancers: cervical, head and neck, and anal cancer, and has received European Medicines Agency ("EMA") orphan drug designation for anal cancer. Axalimogene filolisbac has been designated by the FDA as a Fast Track product for adjuvant therapy for high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer patients. It has also been classified as an advanced-therapy medicinal product ("ATMP") for the treatment of cervical cancer by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Advanced Therapies ("CAT"). Axalimogene filolisbac is subject to an agreement with the FDA, under the Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") process, for the Phase 3 AIM2CERV trial in patients with high-risk, locally advanced cervical cancer. It is also being evaluated in Company-sponsored trials executed under an Investigational New Drug ("IND") which include the following: (i) a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with MedImmune, LLC's ("MedImmune") investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736), in patients with previously treated metastatic cervical cancer or patients with HPV-associated head and neck cancer; and (ii) a single arm Phase 2 monotherapy study in patients with metastatic anal cancer. In addition to the Company-sponsored trials, axalimogene filolisbac is also being evaluated in two investigator-initiated clinical trials as follows: neoadjuvant treatment of HPV-positive head and neck cancer (Mount Sinai & Baylor College of Medicine), and locally advanced high risk anal cancer (Brown University). ADXS-PSA (ADXS31-142) is the Company's Lm based product candidate designed to target the Prostate Specific Antigen ("PSA") associated with prostate cancer which is being evaluated in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial alone and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck & Co.'s ("Merck") humanized monoclonal antibody against PD-1, in patients with previously treated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. ADXS-HER2 (ADXS31-164) is the Company's Lm-based product candidate designed for the treatment of Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 ("HER2") expressing cancers, including human and canine osteosarcoma. ADXS-HER2 was evaluated in a Phase 1b clinical trial in patients with metastatic HER2 expressing solid tumors. The Company has evaluated the data, and based on the Company's priorities, has determined not to pursue further clinical study of ADXS-HER2 at this time but remains open to investigator-initiated research or licensing proposals. Clinical research with ADXS-HER2 in canine osteosarcoma is being developed by the Company's pet therapeutic partner, Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), who holds exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 and three other Lm -LLO immunotherapies for pet health applications. Aratana has announced that a product license application for use of ADXS-HER2 in the treatment of canine osteosarcoma has been filed with the United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA"). Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2017. F- 5 ADXS-NEO is the Company's individual Lm-based antigen delivery product combined with a fusion protein based on information captured by comparing a patient's own DNA with the DNA from that patient's tumor. The FDA has cleared the Company's IND application for clinical investigation of a new precision immunotherapy for the treatment of cancers. The Company plans to initiate a Phase 1 study in first half of 2018. The Company has focused its development efforts on establishing a drug development pipeline that incorporates this technology into therapeutic cancer immunotherapies, with clinical trials currently targeting HPV-associated cancers (cervical cancer, head and neck cancer, and anal cancer), prostate cancer, and canine osteosarcoma. Although no immunotherapies have been commercialized to date, the Company continues to invest in research and development to advance the technology and make it available to patients with many different types of cancer. Pipeline development and the further exploration of the technology for advancement entails risk and expense. The Company anticipates that its ongoing operational costs will increase significantly as it continues conducting and expanding its clinical development programs. In addition to its existing single antigen vectors that target one tumor associated antigen, the Company is actively engaged in the development of new constructs that will address multiple targets that are common to tumor types, as well as mutation-associated epitopes that are specific to an individual patient's tumor. The Company is also leveraging its Lm Technology to target common (public or shared) mutations (hotspots) in tumor driver genes, which it refers to as ADXS-HOT. Lastly, the Company completed construction for its pilot plant at the state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Princeton, NJ, to produce supplies for its neoepitope and other development programs. Liquidity and Financial Condition The Company's products are being developed and have not generated significant revenues. As of July 31 2017, the Company had approximately $89.4 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on its balance sheet. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan into approximately fiscal 2019. The estimate is based on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and the Company could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of its product candidates, the Company is unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of its current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION Basis of Presentation - Unaudited Interim Financial Information The accompanying unaudited interim condensed financial statements and related notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") for interim financial information, and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC with respect to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements. The unaudited interim condensed financial statements furnished reflect all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to represent a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of the results for the full year. These unaudited interim condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended October 31, 2016 and notes thereto contained in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016, as filed with the SEC on January 9, 2017. The information presented in the accompanying unaudited condensed balance sheet as of October 31, 2016 has been derived from the Company's October 31, 2016 audited financial statements. Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ substantially from these estimates. Significant estimates include the fair value and recoverability of the carrying value of intangible assets (patents and licenses), the fair value of stock options, the fair value of embedded conversion features, warrants and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from estimates. Reclassifications Certain amounts in the prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the presentation of the current period financial statements. These reclassifications had no effect on the previously reported net loss. F- 6 Collaboration Agreements The Company evaluates whether an arrangement is a collaborative arrangement under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 808, Collaborative Arrangements, at its inception based on the facts and circumstances specific to the arrangement. The Company also reevaluates whether an arrangement qualifies or continues to qualify as a collaborative arrangement whenever there is a change in either the roles of the participants or the participants' exposure to significant risks and rewards dependent on the ultimate commercial success of the endeavor. For those collaborative arrangements where it is determined that the Company is the principal participant, costs incurred and revenue generated from third parties are recorded on a gross basis in the financial statements. From time to time, the Company enters into collaborative arrangements for the research and development, manufacture and/or commercialization of products and product candidates. These collaborations generally provide for non-refundable, upfront license fees, research and development and commercial performance milestone payments, cost sharing, royalty payments and/or profit sharing. The Company's collaboration agreements with third parties are performed on a ''best efforts'' basis with no guarantee of either technological or commercial success. Revenue Recognition The Company is expected to derive the majority of its revenue from patent licensing and research and development services associated with patent licensing. In general, these revenue arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by the Company. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, or upon the final milestones being met, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. The Company recognizes licensing fees when there is persuasive evidence of a licensing arrangement, fees are fixed or determinable, delivery has occurred and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue associated with nonrefundable upfront license fees under arrangements where the license fees and research and development activities cannot be accounted for as separate units of accounting is deferred and recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the expected period of performance. Revenues from the achievement of research and development milestones, if deemed substantive, are recognized as revenue when the milestones are achieved and the milestone payments are due and collectible. If not deemed substantive, the Company recognizes such milestones as revenue on a straight-line basis over the remaining expected performance period under the arrangement. All such recognized revenues are included in collaborative licensing and development revenue in the Company's statements of operations. Milestones are considered substantive if all of the following conditions are met: (1) the milestone is nonrefundable; (2) achievement of the milestone was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement; (3) substantive effort is involved to achieve the milestone; and (4) the amount of the milestone appears reasonable in relation to the effort expended, and the other milestones in the arrangement and the related risk associated with the achievement of the milestone and any ongoing research and development or other services are priced at fair value. If product development is successful, the Company will recognize revenue from royalties based on licensees' sales of its products or products using its technologies. Royalties are recognized as earned in accordance with the contract terms when royalties from licensees can be reasonably estimated and collectability is reasonably assured. If royalties cannot be reasonably estimated or collectability of a royalty amount is not reasonably assured, royalties are recognized as revenue when the cash is received. Deferred revenue represents the portion of payments received for which the earnings process has not been completed. Deferred revenue expected to be recognized within the next 12 months is classified as a current liability. An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on the Company's best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the Company's existing license fee receivables, using historical experience. The Company reviews its allowance for doubtful accounts periodically. Past due accounts are reviewed individually for collectability. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. To date, this is yet to occur. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. As of July 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company had approximately $8.3 million and $106.7 million, respectively, in cash equivalents. Concentration of Credit Risk The Company maintains its cash in bank deposit accounts (checking) that at times exceed federally insured limits. Approximately $13.7 million is subject to credit risk at July 31, 2017. However, these cash balances are maintained at creditworthy financial institutions. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk. F- 7 Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximated fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because of the relatively short maturity dates on these instruments. The carrying amounts of the financing arrangements issued approximate fair value as of the balance sheet date presented, because interest rates on these instruments approximate market interest rates after consideration of stated interest rates, anti-dilution protection and associated warrants. Net Loss per Share Basic net income or loss per common share is computed by dividing net income or loss available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share give effect to dilutive options, warrants, convertible debt and other potential Common Stock outstanding during the period. In the case of a net loss the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from warrants, outstanding stock options and convertible debt are not included in the computation of diluted loss per share, as the effect would be anti-dilutive. In the case of net income, the impact of the potential Common Stock resulting from these instruments that have intrinsic value are included in the diluted earnings per share. The table sets forth the number of potential shares of Common Stock that have been excluded from diluted net loss per share. Stock Based Compensation The Company has an equity plan which allows for the granting of stock options to its employees, directors and consultants for a fixed number of shares with an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at date of grant. The Company measures the cost of services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the fair value of the award. For employees and directors, the fair value of the award is measured on the grant date and for non-employees, the fair value of the award is generally measured based on contractual terms. The fair value amount is then recognized over the requisite service period, usually the vesting period, in both research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses on the statement of operations, depending on the nature of the services provided by the employees or consultants. The process of estimating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards and recognizing stock-based compensation cost over their requisite service period involves significant assumptions and judgments. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using the Black Scholes Model ("BSM") for the remaining awards, which requires that the Company makes certain assumptions regarding: (i) the expected volatility in the market price of its Common Stock; (ii) dividend yield; (iii) risk-free interest rates; and (iv) the period of time employees are expected to hold the award prior to exercise (referred to as the expected holding period). As a result, if the Company revises its assumptions and estimates, stock-based compensation expense could change materially for future grants. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using fair value recognition and records stock-based compensation as a charge to earnings net of forfeited awards. As such, the Company recognizes stock-based compensation cost only for those stock-based awards that vest over their requisite service period, based on the vesting provisions of the individual grants. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, as part of its ongoing efforts to assist in the convergence of GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which is a new standard related to revenue recognition. Under the new standard, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised services or goods in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. The standard must be adopted using either a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or a modified retrospective approach. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers - Deferral of the Effective Date, which defers the implementation of this new standard to be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted effective January 1, 2017. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations, which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, in May 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-12, Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, and in December 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amend certain aspects of the new revenue recognition standard pursuant to ASU 2014-09. We are currently evaluating which transition approach we will utilize and the impact of adopting this accounting standard on the Company's financial statements. F- 8 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). The standard amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, including requiring lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets and making targeted changes to lessor accounting. ASU 2016-02 will be effective beginning in the first quarter of 2019. Early adoption of ASU 2016-02 is permitted. The new leases standard requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application, with an option to use certain transition relief. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on the Company's financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments." The standard significantly changes how entities will measure credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments that aren't measured at fair value through net income. The standard will replace today's "incurred loss" approach with an "expected loss" model for instruments measured at amortized cost. For available-for-sale debt securities, entities will be required to record allowances rather than reduce the carrying amount, as they do today under the other-than-temporary impairment model. It also simplifies the accounting model for purchased credit-impaired debt securities and loans. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods therein. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods therein. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, "Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business." The amendments in this Update clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of businesses. The amendments in this Update provide a screen to determine when a set is not a business. If the screen is not met, it (1) requires that to be considered a business, a set must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output and (2) removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements. This Update is the final version of Proposed ASU 2015-330 Business Combinations (Topic 805) Clarifying The Definition of a Business, which has been deleted. The amendments in this Update are effective for all entities for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, "Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting" to provide clarity and reduce both (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments in this Update provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718. This Update is the final version of Proposed ASU 2016-360-Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718)-Scope of Modification Accounting, which has been deleted. The amendments in this Update are effective for all entities for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective accounting pronouncements, if adopted, would have a material impact on the accompanying condensed financial statements. 3. INVESTMENTS The following table summarizes the Company's investment securities at amortized cost as of July 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016: All of the Company's investments mature within the next 12 months. F- 9 4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment consists of the following: Depreciation expense for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016 was $216,376, $553,779, $68,457 and $163,581, respectively. 5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Pursuant to our license agreement with the University of Pennsylvania ("Penn"), the Company is billed actual patent expenses as they are passed through from Penn and are billed directly from our patent attorney. The following is a summary of intangible assets as of the end of the following fiscal periods: The expirations of the existing patents range from 2017 to 2037 but the expirations can be extended based on market approval if granted and/or based on existing laws and regulations. Capitalized costs associated with patent applications that are abandoned without future value are charged to expense when the determination is made not to pursue the application. Patent applications having a net book value of $17,745 and $107,626 were abandoned and charged to Research and Development Expenses in the statement of operations for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017. No patent applications were abandoned during the three or nine months ended July 31, 2016. Amortization expense for intangible assets is included in research and development expenses and aggregated $87,000, $239,155, $64,440 and $183,184 for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. At July 31, 2017, the estimated amortization expense by fiscal year based on the current carrying value of intangible assets is as follows: 6. ACCRUED EXPENSES: The following table represents the major components of accrued expenses: F- 10 7. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Warrants A summary of changes in warrants for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 is as follows: At July 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company had 3,092,395 and 3,092,619 outstanding warrants classified as equity (equity warrants) out of it total 3,094,173 and 3,110,575 warrants, respectively. At issuance, equity warrants are recorded at their relative fair values, using the Relative Fair Value Method, in the shareholders' equity section of the balance sheet. The equity warrants can only be settled through the issuance of shares and are not subject to anti-dilution provisions. Warrant Liability At July 31, 2017, the Company had approximately 2,000 of its total approximately 3.09 million outstanding warrants classified as liabilities (liability warrants). At October 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 18,000 of its total approximately 3.11 million outstanding warrants classified as liabilities (liability warrants). The Company utilizes the BSM to calculate the fair value of these warrants at issuance and at each subsequent reporting date. The liability warrants contain a cash settlement provision in the event of a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Common Stock purchase warrant). Any changes in the fair value of the warrant liability (i.e. - the total fair value of all outstanding liability warrants at the balance sheet date) between reporting periods will be reported on the statement of operations. At July 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the fair value of the warrant liability was $0 and $20,156, respectively. For the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company reported a gain of $0 and $6,340, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. For the nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company reported a gain of $20,156 and $56,214, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability. In determining the fair value of the warrant liability at July 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: 8. SHARE BASED COMPENSATION Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) A summary of the Company's RSU activity and related information for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 is as follows: As of July 31, 2017, there was approximately $11,266,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 2.18 years. As of July 31, 2017, the aggregate intrinsic value of non-vested RSUs was approximately $9,884,000. F- 11 Employee Stock Awards Common Stock issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements, management purchases and employee excellence awards totaled 463,985 shares (452,084 shares on a net basis after employee taxes) and 152,056 shares (149,833 shares on a net basis after employee taxes) for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016 was $4,259,656 and $1,220,832 respectively. Common Stock issued to executives and employees related to vested incentive retention awards, employment inducements, management purchases and employee excellence awards totaled 717,505 shares (674,543 shares on a net basis after employee taxes) and 539,512 shares (532,933 shares on a net basis after employee taxes) during the nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total stock compensation expense associated with these awards for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016 was $7,328,591 and $4,075,393, respectively. Furthermore, employees were entitled to receive a performance-based year-end cash bonus. Several employees voluntarily requested to be paid all or a portion of their cash bonus in the Company's Common Stock instead of cash. During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, the total fair value of these equity purchases were $102,022, or 9,150 shares of the Company's Common Stock. Director Stock Awards Common stock issued to Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership totaled 0 shares and 31,767 shares for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total Director stock compensation expense for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016 was $101,628 and $311,205, respectively. Common stock issued to Directors for compensation related to board and committee membership totaled 30,000 and 125,501 shares for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Total Director stock compensation expense for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016 was $301,572 and $933,615, respectively. Stock Options A summary of changes in the stock option plan for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 is as follows: Total compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options, recognized in the statement of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, was approximately $9,698,000 and $3,108,000, respectively. For the nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, compensation cost related to the Company's outstanding stock options was approximately $15,889,000 and $13,060,000, respectively. During the nine months ended July 31, 2017, 556,952 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of approximately $3,542,000. During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, 1,385,000 options were granted with a total grant date fair value of approximately $14,838,000. As of July 31, 2017, there was approximately $6,342,000 of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock option awards, which is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted average vesting period of approximately 1.29 years. As of July 31, 2017, the aggregate intrinsic value of vested and exercisable options was approximately $27,000. In determining the fair value of the stock options granted during the nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company used the following inputs in its BSM: F- 12 Shares Issued to Consultants During the three months ended July 31, 2017, 48,737 shares of Common Stock valued at $416,000 were issued to consultants for services, of which $247,100 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $141,800 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. During the three months ended July 31, 2016, 31,030 shares of Common Stock valued at $252,000 were issued to consultants for services. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. During the nine months ended July 31, 2017, 125,549 shares of Common Stock valued at $1,108,950 were issued to consultants for services, of which $75,000 represented shares issued for amounts previously accrued. The Company recorded a liability on its balance sheet for $141,800 for shares earned pursuant to consulting agreements but not delivered. During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, 120,047 shares of Common Stock valued at $1,097,088 were issued to consultants for services. The common stock share values were based on the dates the shares vested. The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense included in the Statement of Operations by expense category for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively: 9. COLLABORATION AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS Amgen On August 1, 2016, the Company entered into a global agreement (the "Amgen Agreement") with Amgen for the development and commercialization of the Company's ADXS-NEO, a novel, preclinical investigational immunotherapy, using the Company's proprietary Listeria monocytogenes attenuated bacterial vector which activates a patient's immune system to respond against unique mutations, or neoepitopes, contained in and identified from an individual patient's tumor. Under the terms of the Amgen Agreement, Amgen receives an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize ADXS-NEO. Advaxis and Amgen will collaborate through a joint steering committee for the development and commercialization of ADXS-NEO. Under the Amgen Agreement, Amgen will fund the clinical development and commercialization of ADXS-NEO and Advaxis will retain manufacturing responsibilities. The Company considered the provisions of the research and development and collaboration guidance in determining how to recognize the clinical development payments to be received from Amgen. The Company determined the clinical development payments should be accounted for within the scope of collaboration arrangement accounting guidance. As a result, the Company will account for the clinical development payments as a reduction of Research and Development Expenses in the statement of operations. During the nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company received clinical development payments from Amgen totaling $4,500,000. In addition, the Company recorded an expected clinical development payment of $1,500,000 as Other Receivables on the balance sheet. In August 2017, the Company received the $1,500,000 expected clinical development payment from Amgen. Especificos Stendhal SA de CV On February 3, 2016, the Company entered into a Co-Development and Commercialization Agreement (the "Stendhal Agreement") with Especificos Stendhal SA de CV ("Stendhal"), for Advaxis' lead Lm Technology immunotherapy, Axalimogene filolisbac , in HPV-associated cancers. Under the terms of the Stendhal Agreement, Stendhal will pay $10 million ("Support Payments") towards the expense of AIM2CERV over the duration of the trial. Certain internal expenses of Stendhal up to $1 million shall be counted towards the $10 million in Support Payments. The Support Payments are contingent upon Advaxis achieving annual project milestones. The Company considered the provisions of the research and development and collaboration guidance in determining how to recognize the Support Payments to be received from Stendhal. The Company determined the Stendhal Agreement should be accounted for within the scope of collaboration arrangement accounting guidance. Furthermore, the Company determined that Advaxis is the principal in the Stendhal Agreement. As a result, the Company will account for the Support Payments as a reduction of Research and Development Expenses in the statement of operations. During the nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company reached the annual project milestones and received a $3,000,000 Support Payment from Stendhal. Sellas Life Science Group On February 27, 2017, the Company entered into a license agreement with Sellas Life Science Group ("Sellas") to develop a novel cancer immunotherapy agent using Advaxis' proprietary Lm-based antigen delivery product with SELLAS' patented WT1 targeted heteroclitic peptide antigen mixture (galinpepimut-S)). Pursuant to the agreement, Advaxis will conduct all pre-clinical activities required for an IND filing and Sellas will be responsible for all clinical development and commercial activities. Advaxis will receive future payments of up to $358 million from SELLAS if certain development, regulatory, and commercial milestones are met. SELLAS has agreed to pay Advaxis single-digit to low double-digit royalties based on worldwide net sales upon commercialization. If SELLAS sublicenses its rights, Advaxis will receive a percentage of applicable sublicense revenue paid. F- 13 10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Legal Proceedings Knoll On August 21, 2015, Knoll Capital Management L.P. filed a complaint against the Company in the Delaware Court of Chancery. In lieu of continuing to unnecessarily incur litigation expenses, on April 27, 2017, the Company settled the matter for a non-material amount, predominately reimbursed by the Company's insurance, and the parties entered into a definitive confidential settlement agreement. The Company expressly denies any admission or wrongdoing and the settlement was entered into solely for the purpose of avoiding the burden, inconvenience, and expense of further litigation. On May 11, 2017, following resolution of the matter by the parties, the Court granted a Stipulation Of Dismissal With Prejudice. Bono On August 20, 2015, a derivative complaint was filed by a purported Company shareholder in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey styled David Bono v. O'Connor, et al., Case No. 3:15-CV-006326-FLW-DEA (D.N.J. Aug. 20, 2015) (the "Bono Action"). The complaint is based on general allegations related to certain stock options granted to the individual defendants and generally alleges counts for breaches of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment. The complaint also alleges additional claims for violation of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and for waste of corporate assets. The complaint seeks damages and costs of an unspecified amount, disgorgement of compensation obtained by the individual defendants, and injunctive relief. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Bono Action. On May 23, 2016, the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey issued an opinion and order granting in part and denying in part defendants' motion to dismiss. Specifically, the court denied the motion to dismiss as to the breach of fiduciary duty claim and unjust enrichment claim against the three members of the Compensation Committee, but dismissed without prejudice the breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment claims against the other eight individual defendants [O'Connor, Khleif, McKearn, Patton, Bonstein, Mauro, Mayes, and Petit]. The court dismissed without prejudice the Section 14(a) disclosure claim and waste claims against all defendants. On October 5, 2016, the court denied plaintiff's motion for reconsideration of its May 23 order. On April 13, 2017, the parties advised the Court that they had reached a tentative agreement in principle to settle the action, which is still subject to negotiating an award of attorneys' fees and expenses to Plaintiffs' counsel and a stipulation of settlement, and, ultimately, Court approval. General The Company is from time to time involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. The Company does not believe that any of these claims and proceedings against it is likely to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Operating Leases The Company's corporate offices are currently located at 305 College Road East, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. At July 31, 2017 future minimum lease payments by fiscal year of the Company's operating leases are as follows: F- 14 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements about our plans and expectations of what may happen in the future. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our results could differ materially from the results anticipated by our forward-looking statements as a result of many known or unknown factors, including, but not limited to, those factors discussed in "Risk Factors" and incorporated by reference herein. See also the "Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" set forth at the beginning of this report. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements, and the related footnotes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this report, and in conjunction with management's discussion and analysis and the audited financial statements included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016. Overview Advaxis is a late-stage biotechnology company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of proprietary Lm-based antigen delivery products with the lead program in Phase 3 development. These immunotherapies are based on a platform technology that utilizes live attenuated Listeria monocytogenes bioengineered to secrete antigen/adjuvant fusion proteins. These Lm-based strains are believed to be a significant advancement in immunotherapy as they integrate multiple functions into a single immunotherapy as they access and direct antigen presenting cells to stimulate anti-tumor T-cell immunity, stimulate and activate the immune system with the equivalent of multiple adjuvants, and simultaneously reduce tumor protection in the tumor microenvironment to enable the T-cells to eliminate tumors. Advaxis will continue to invest in its core clinical franchises and will also remain opportunistic based on Investigator Sponsored Trials ("ISTs") as well as licensing opportunities. Our proprietary Lm Technology platform is protected by a range of patents, covering both product and process, some of which we believe can be maintained into 2037. HPV Related Cancers We have developed a strong franchise in HPV-related cancers including both axalimogene filolisbac and ADXS-DUAL. Axalimogene filolisbac is an Lm based antigen delivery product directed against HPV and designed to target cells expressing the HPV. ADXS-DUAL, our second immunotherapy targeting HPV-associated cancers, is an Lm based immunotherapy that secretes a fusion protein containing E7 protein antigens from both alpha 7 (HPV18) and alpha 9 (HPV 16) families, and has the potential to promote more potent T-cell responses for patients with metastatic cancer and a greater disease burden. We developed ADXS-DUAL by building on our learnings from the clinical development of axalimogene filolisbac and have incorporated an additional HPV target antigen into our Lm bacterial vector. Our HPV-related products are currently under investigation in three HPV-associated cancers: cervical cancer, head and neck cancer, and anal cancer, either as a monotherapy or in combination. Cervical Cancer There are approximately 527,000 new cases of cervical cancer caused by HPV worldwide every year, and 12,000 new cases in the U.S. alone, according to the WHO Human Papillomavirus and Related Cancers in the World Summary Report 2017 ("WHO"). Current preventative vaccines cannot protect all women who are infected with this very common virus. Challenges with acceptance, accessibility, and compliance have resulted in approximately 30% of young women and 7% of young men being vaccinated in the United States with even lower vaccination rates in other countries around the world. We completed a randomized Phase 2 clinical study (Lm-LLO-E7-15), conducted exclusively in India, in 110 women with recurrent/refractory cervical cancer. The final results showed that 34.9% (38/109) of patients were alive at 12 months, 24.8% (27/109) of patients were Long-term Survivors ("LTS") alive greater than 18 months. Of the 15 patients consenting to further follow-up beyond 18 months, 12 (11%) achieved 24-month OS status (range 24 34+ months) at the time of study closure. LTS included not only patients with tumor shrinkage but also patients who had experienced stable disease or increased tumor burden. Investigator assessment of best Overall Response ("OR") was assessed in the efficacy population. These data demonstrated a best objective response rate (ORR; CR + PR) of 17.1% (N= 6). The mean duration of OR was 7.2 months. The disease control rate (CR + PR + SD) was 62.9% (N= 22) and the mean duration of stable disease was 5.2 months. The addition of cisplatin chemotherapy to axalimogene filolisbac (N=54) in this study did not significantly improve overall survival or objective tumor response (p =0.9981). In this study, 109 patients received 254 doses of axalimogene filolisbac. Axalimogene filolisbac was found to be well tolerated with the majority of the AEs were mild to moderate in severity (566 of 704 reported AEs, 80.4%) and were not related to study drug (539 of 704 reported AEs, 76.6%). Four patients experienced a Grade 3 treatment-associated Serious Adverse Events ("SAE"). All observed treatment-related adverse events were infusion related and either self-resolved or responded readily to symptomatic treatment. We have reached an agreement with the FDA, under the Special Protocol Assessment ("SPA") process, to conduct a Phase 3 trial evaluating axalimogene filolisbac in patients with high-risk, locally advanced cervical ("AIM2CERV" or "Advaxis Immunotherapy 2 Prevent Cervical Recurrence"). Pursuant to the SPA, the study has been determined by FDA to be adequate, well-designed, and suitable for registration if successful. This study will be conducted in collaboration with the GOG/NRG Oncology, an independent international non-profit organization with the purpose of promoting excellence in the quality and integrity of clinical and basic scientific research in the field of gynecologic malignancies, and we have initiated the AIM2CERV study to support a Biologics License Application ("BLA") submission in the U.S. and regulatory registration in other territories around the world. 4 AIM2CERV is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, Phase 3 study of adjuvant axalimogene filolisbac, following primary chemoradiation treatment of women with high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer ("HRLACC"). The primary objective of AIM2CERV is to compare the disease free survival of axalimogene filolisbac to placebo administered in the adjuvant setting following standard concurrent chemotherapy and radiotherapy ("CCRT") administered with curative intent to patients with HRLACC. Secondary endpoints include examining overall survival and safety. Our goal is to develop a treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of cervical cancer recurrence after primary, standard of care treatment in women who are at high risk of recurrence. The study is active in eight countries and is currently enrolling. Biocon Limited ("Biocon"), our co-development and commercialization partner for axalimogene filolisbac in India and key emerging markets, filed a Marketing Authorization Application ("MAA") for licensure of this immunotherapy in India. The companies are currently evaluating next steps. We have a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune, the global biologics research and development arm of AstraZeneca, and are conducting a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two-part study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab, as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck ("SCCHN"). For the axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, the dose-escalation phase has been completed. As reported at the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer ("SITC") 2016 annual meeting, preliminary results from the dose escalation portion of the study showed that there were no dose limiting toxicities observed, and the safety profile was consistent with previous findings for both axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab. The recommended phase 2 dose was established as 1x109 Colony Forming Units ("CFU") for axalimogene filolisbac and 10 mg/kg for durvalumab. As previously reported in preliminary data reported from this ongoing trial, one patient with cervical cancer achieved a complete response and one patient, also with cervical cancer, achieved a partial response with subsequent disease progression. In addition, two patients with SCCHN achieved stable disease. Treatment related adverse events ("TRAE") were reported in 91% of patients; the majority were either grade 1 or grade 2 events such as chills, fever, nausea and hypotension. Grade 3 TRAEs occurred in three patients, and one patient experienced a grade 4 event. We have commenced enrollment in the Part A (20 patients with SCCHN) and B (90 patients with cervical cancer) expansion phases. Accrual is ongoing. The GOG Foundation, Inc. (now a member of NRG Oncology), under the sponsorship of the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program ("CTEP") of the National Cancer Institute ("NCI"), conducted GOG-0265, an open-label, single arm Phase 2 study of axalimogene filolisbac in persistent or recurrent cervical cancer (patients must have received at least 1 prior chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of their recurrent/metastatic disease, not including that administered as a component of primary treatment) at numerous clinical sites in the U.S. The study was a Simon 2-stage design. The primary efficacy endpoint was the 12-month survival rate, with the objective of the secondary efficacy endpoints to evaluate progression-free survival, overall survival and objective tumor response. The primary safety endpoints were to evaluate the number of patients with dose-limiting toxicities and the frequency and severity of adverse effects. In order to evaluate the study's primary endpoint of the 12-month overall survival rate, the GOG's protocol featured a prospectively-defined logistic model-based calculation of the expected 12-month survival rate using key predictive factors significantly related to survival and derived from 17 serially conducted GOG/NRG 2-stage studies of inactive agents in PRmCC involving approximately 500 patients. This accumulated data by GOG used a consistent protocol design and a similar data collection methodology resulting in a robust and homogeneous patient dataset for the per protocol analysis of the primary endpoint. Per the study protocol, this logistic model-based calculation was then used as a comparator for evaluating the 12-month survival rate of axalimogene filolisbac actually observed. The first stage of enrollment in GOG-0265 was successfully completed with 26 patients treated and met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient enrollment. Clinical data from the first stage of GOG-0265 was presented at the American Gynecological & Obstetrical Society ("AGOS") annual meeting on September 17, 2015. Overall survival at 12 months was 38.5% (10/26) (the conditional power needed in order to progress to Stage 2 was 20%), and, among patients who had received the full treatment regimen of 3 doses of axalimogene filolisbac, the 12-month survival rate was 55.6% (10/18). The adverse events observed in the first stage of the study were consistent with those reported in other clinical studies with axalimogene filolisbac. Stage 2 of the study began enrollment in February 2015 which included a protocol amendment to allow patients to continue to receive repeat cycles of therapy until disease progression. Stage 2 enrollment was temporarily suspended with a clinical hold in October 2015 that resolved in mid-December 2015. Prior to re-initiating enrollment of a new cohort of Stage 2 patients, Advaxis and the GOG Foundation/NRG Oncology examined the 12-month survival rate and safety data obtained from the 24 patients who had previously enrolled in Stage 2. The Stage 2 population demonstrated that treatment with axalimogene filolisbac resulted in a 37.5% (9/24) 12-month survival rate. This data was consistent with the findings in Stage 1 that showed a 38.5% 12-month survival rate, despite a greater proportion of Stage 2 patients having failed bevacizumab treatment. Taken together, the available data from both stages of GOG-0265 comprise a Phase 2 clinical trial in 50 subjects with a 12 month survival rate of 38% (19/50). The protocol defined logistic model-based calculation of the expected 12-month milestone survival rate was calculated to be 24.5% using the key predictors from the patients enrolled in the study. The 12 month survival rate of 38% for patients receiving axalimogene filolisbac in the study represented a 52% improvement over the expected 12-month milestone survival rate of 24.5%. 5 Overall, 28 out of 50 (56%) patients experienced a Grade 1 or Grade 2 TRAE associated with axalimogene filolisbac infusion. The most common (>30%) Grade 1 or Grade 2 TRAEs were fatigue, chills, anemia, nausea and fever. Eighteen (36%) patients experienced a Grade 3 TRAE and two patients experienced a Grade 4 AE, including a Klebsiella lung infection in one patient, and hypotension/cytokine related symptoms in another patient, which were considered possibly related to treatment. In October 2016, upon review of these findings, we announced early closure of GOG-0265. Results from the GOG-0265 study were presented as an oral late-breaker presentation at the Society of Gynecologic Oncology ("SGO") annual meeting on March 14, 2017. Based on these data, we plan on pursuing regulatory opportunities for this unmet medical need in Europe in 2017. We have entered into a clinical development collaboration agreement with BMS to evaluate their PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, OPDIVO (nivolumab), in combination with ADXS-DUAL as a potential treatment option for women with metastatic cervical cancer. We plan to file our IND application for ADXS-DUAL in 2017. Pending FDA feedback, we plan to initiate a global, randomized, registrational quality trial in 1H 2018 and will evaluate this combination regimen in women with persistent, recurrent or metastatic (squamous or non-squamous cell) carcinoma of the cervix who have failed at least one prior line of systemic chemotherapy. Under the terms of the agreement, each party will bear its own internal costs and provide its immunotherapy agents. Advaxis will sponsor the study and pay third-party costs. Subject to the positive outcome of this study, we plan to file a BLA for approval of ADXS-DUAL for metastatic cervical cancer in combination treatment. Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA orphan drug designation for invasive FIGO Stage II-IV cervical cancer, and has received Fast Track designation from the FDA for high-risk locally advanced cervical cancer patients. Axalimogene filolisbac has also been classified as an advanced-therapy medicinal product ("ATMP") for the treatment of cervical cancer by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Advanced Therapies ("CAT"). The CAT is the EMA's committee responsible for assessing the quality, safety and efficacy of ATMPs. The Company has completed the CAT certification procedure and the CAT has certified the preclinical and quality information have met the scientific and technical standards for a MAA. Head and Neck Cancer SCCHN is the most frequently occurring malignant tumor of the head and neck and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. More than 90% of SCCHNs originate from the mucosal linings of the oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx and 70% of these cancers are caused by HPV, with the incidence increasing every year. According to the American Cancer Society, head and neck cancer accounts for about 3% of all cancers in the United States. According to the 2017 American Cancer Society data report, approximately 30,000 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2017. The safety and immunogenicity of axalimogene filolisbac is being evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND at Mount Sinai and Baylor College of Medicine in a pre-surgery "window of opportunity" trial in patients with HPV-positive head and neck cancer. This clinical trial is the first study to evaluate the immunologic and pathologic effects of axalimogene filolisbac in patients when they are initially diagnosed with HPV-associated head and neck cancer. The study is designed to show that axalimogene filolisbac is highly immunogenic and worth further investigation if the overall rate of vaccine-induced T-cell responses is 75% or more. Preliminary clinical data from this trial was presented at the American Association of Cancer Research ("AACR") annual meeting on April 18, 2016. The data from eight of the nine patients enrolled in Stage 1 who were treated with axalimogene filolisbac confirmed that the study met the target for the overall rate of vaccine-induced T-cell response. The results demonstrated that, HPV E7- and/or E6-specific T cell responses increased in the peripheral blood in five of the study patients. Increased infiltration of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were observed in the Tumor Immune Microenvironment ("TME") of four patients, with a reduction of FOXP3+ regulatory T cells within the tumors of 3/6 patients. Increased T cell responses to HPV E6 supports enhanced immune activity against additional tumor targets. Changes to the TME included cytotoxic T cell infiltration into the post-resection tumor, increased immune activation, a reduction of regulatory T cells, infiltration of cytotoxic T cells, and increased expression of inflammatory activation markers. In addition, fluctuations of circulating serum cytokine were observed suggesting consumption by activated T cells and migration of T cells to the TME. This study met its Stage 1 primary objective and is now advancing into the second stage of the clinical study. Stage 2 of the clinical study is currently accruing patients. We anticipate the expansion phase will be sponsored by Baylor College of Medicine. We will continue to be opportunistic as it relates to IST development in HPV-positive head and neck cancer patients. As stated above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to collaborate on a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with durvalumab (MEDI4736), for patients with metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA orphan drug designation for HPV-associated head and neck cancer. Anal Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, nearly all squamous cell anal cancers are linked to infection by HPV, the same virus that causes cervical cancer. According to the 2017 American Cancer Society data report, approximately 8,200 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2017. The safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac was evaluated in a Phase 2 study under an investigator-sponsored IND by Brown University in patients with high-risk locally advanced anal cancer. As of December 2016, 11 patients were enrolled and all patients who have completed radiation treatment and received treatment experienced a six-month complete response (n=9), with no evidence of recurrence. Eight of 9 patients (89%) are disease-free at a median follow-up of 34 months. No further enrollment in this study is planned. These data were accepted and published in the on-line journal at American Society of Clinical Oncology ("ASCO") 2017. 6 We are conducting a Phase 2 multi-center, open-label, Simon two-stage study ("FAWCETT" or "Fighting Anal-Cancer with CTL Enhancing Tumor Therapy"), testing axalimogene filolisbac in patients with persistent or recurrent metastatic anal cancer. FAWCETT is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of axalimogene filolisbac as a monotherapy in patients with HPV-associated metastatic anal cancer who have received at least one prior treatment regimen for the advanced disease. Patients will receive IV axalimogene filolisbac monotherapy (1x109 CFU) every 3 weeks for 2 years or until a discontinuation criterion is met. Stage 1 of the trial targeted enrollment of 36 patients with anal cancer whose disease recurred after receiving treatment, with an interim analysis planned on enrollment of 31 evaluable pts ( 1 post-baseline scan) and met the predetermined safety and efficacy criteria required to proceed into the second stage of patient enrollment. Preliminary Stage 1 results from 29 of the planned evaluable patients showed 1 (3.5%) patient had a durable partial response lasting > 6 months (after progression on prior anti-PD-1 therapy) and 7 had stable disease (24%). Disease control rate was 28%. The current Kaplan Meier 6-month PFS estimate is 22%, indicating the study can proceed to Stage 2 of enrollment. Common ( 30%) TRAEs were grade 1-2 chills/rigors, fever, hypotension and vomiting. Grade 3 TRAEs of cytokine related symptoms (n=1; SAE), infusion related reactions (n=2; 1 SAE) and hypotension (n=2; 1 SAE) were reported. These results were reported at the annual meeting of the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) in September 2017. The Company is evaluating the potential for collaborative external opportunities to further develop our HPV program in anal cancer. Axalimogene filolisbac has received FDA and EMA orphan drug designation for anal cancer. ADXS-PSA Franchise Prostate Cancer According to the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer is the second most common type of cancer found in American men. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in men, behind only lung cancer. One man in seven will get prostate cancer during his lifetime, and one man in 36 will die of this disease. According to the 2017 American Cancer Society data report, approximately 161,000 new cases will be diagnosed in the United States in 2017. ADXS-PSA is an Lm based antigen delivery product designed to target the PSA antigen commonly overexpressed in prostate cancer. We have entered into a clinical trial collaboration and supply agreement with Merck & Co. ("Merck") to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and expansion study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, cohorts were successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x109 CFU and 1x1010 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose-determination phases of the trial have been completed. The Recommendation Phase 2 Dose ("RP2D") is 1 x 109 ADXS-PSA and 200 mg KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). Enrollment in the expansion cohort phase using the RP2D combination is underway. Preliminary data identifying potential pharmacodynamics biomarkers of clinical response and preliminary immune correlative data in mCRPC patients treated with ADXS-PSA monotherapy, as well as preclinical data regarding molecular biomarkers associated with tumor regression in a murine HPV+ tumor model were presented at the third annual CRI-CIMT-EATI-AACR International Cancer Immunotherapy Conference in September 2017. ADXS-NEO Franchise In August 2016, we entered into a global agreement (the "Agreement") with Amgen Inc. ("Amgen") for the development and commercialization of ADXS-NEO, a novel, investigational cancer immunotherapy treatment, using our proprietary Lm Technology attenuated bacterial vector which activates a patient's immune system to respond against multiple potential unique mutations, or neoepitopes, contained in and identified from an individual patient's tumor through DNA sequencing. ADXS-NEO is an individualized Lm-based antigen delivery product combined with a fusion protein based on information captured by whole-genome sequencing of a patient's tumor and comparing the patient's DNA from normal tissue with that from the patient's tumor. It will target multiple patient-specific neoantigens resulting from those mutations that are not present in normal cells. Each ADXS-NEO construct is designed to target the non-synonymous mutations found in the tumor, which is unique to each patient's cancer. ADXS-NEO works by presenting a large payload of neoantigens directly into dendritic cells within the patient's immune system and stimulating a T-cell response against cancerous cells. The FDA has cleared the IND application of our new precision immunotherapy (ADXS-NEO) for the treatment of cancers and we plan to initiate a Phase 1 study in first half of 2018. The initial tumor types for the Phase 1 are metastatic colon, head and neck, and non-small cell lung cancers. 7 Clinical studies using ADXS-NEO are in active development in collaboration with our partner, Amgen. Further, we have entered into various research collaborations, including the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, to advance the study of neoepitope-based, personalized cancer therapy as part of the Tumor neoantigEn SeLection Alliance ("TESLA") initiative. ADXS-HOT Franchise (preclinical) We are developing multiple Lm-based products that could target common (public or shared) or "hot-spot" mutations in tumor driver genes. ADXS-HOT products may target acquired public mutations in tumor driver genes that are shared by multiple patients, and could have greater immunogenicity than the natural sequence peptides in normal cells. DNA sequencing is not required, and the ADXS-HOT products are expected to be "off the shelf" and ready to administer for multiple patients. The Company plans to file INDs in 2018. ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 Expressing Solid Tumors HER2 is overexpressed in a percentage of solid tumors including osteosarcoma. According to the SEER database and recent published literature, approximately 60-70% of osteosarcoma are HER2 positive, which is associated with poor outcomes for patients. ADXS-HER2 is an Lm based antigen delivery product designed to target HER2 expressing solid tumors including human and canine osteosarcoma. The dose finding phase of the trial is complete. The Company has evaluated the data and decided not to proceed to the expansion phase of the trial. In addition, based on the Company's priorities, the ADXS-HER2 development program, which includes Pediatric Osteosarcoma, will be discontinued but remains open to investigator-initiated research or licensing proposals. Canine Osteosarcoma On March 19, 2014, we entered into a definitive Exclusive License Agreement with Aratana Therapeutics Inc. ("Aratana"), where we granted Aratana an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to sublicense, certain of our proprietary technology that enables Aratana to develop and commercialize animal health products that will be targeted for treatment of osteosarcoma and other cancer indications in animals. A product license request has been filed by Aratana for ADXS-HER2 (also known as AT-014 by Aratana) for the treatment of canine osteosarcoma with the USDA. Aratana received communication from the USDA in March 2015 stating that the previously submitted efficacy data for product licensure for AT-014 (ADXS-HER2), the cancer immunotherapy for canine osteosarcoma, was accepted and that it provides a reasonable expectation of efficacy that supports conditional licensure. While additional steps need to be completed and data, when available, needs to be analyzed, including in the areas of manufacturing and safety, we understand that Aratana anticipates that AT-014 could receive conditional licensure from the USDA in 2017. The Company does not anticipate significant revenue from this collaboration in 2017. Aratana has been granted exclusive worldwide rights by us to develop and commercialize ADXS-HER2 in animals. Aratana is further responsible for the conduct of clinical research with ADXS-Survivin in canine/feline lymphoma, as well as pending investigations of two additional Advaxis constructs in animals. Strategic Clinical Collaborations, focused on combination therapies Axalimogene filolisbac and Durvalumab As further described above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with MedImmune to conduct a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, two part study to evaluate safety and efficacy of axalimogene filolisbac, in combination with MedImmune's investigational anti-PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, durvalumab (MEDI4736), as a combination treatment for patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous carcinoma of the cervix and metastatic HPV-associated SCCHN. For the axalimogene filolisbac and durvalumab dose escalation portion of the study, the dose-escalation cohort has been completed. We have commenced enrollment in the Part A (20 patients with SCCHN) and B (90 patients with cervical cancer) expansion phases. Accrual is ongoing. ADXS-DUAL and OPDIVO (nivolumab) As further described above, we have entered into a clinical development collaboration agreement with BMS to evaluate their PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, OPDIVO (nivolumab), in combination with ADXS-DUAL as a potential treatment option for women with metastatic cervical cancer. Pending FDA feedback, we plan to initiate a global, randomized, registrational quality trial in 1H 2018 and will evaluate this combination regimen in women with persistent, recurrent or metastatic (squamous or non-squamous cell) carcinoma of the cervix who have failed at least one prior line of systemic chemotherapy. ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab) As further described above, we have entered into a clinical trial collaboration agreement with Merck to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ADXS-PSA as monotherapy and in combination with KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab), Merck's anti PD-1 antibody, in a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and expansion study in patients with previously treated metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the ADXS-PSA monotherapy dose escalation portion of the study, cohorts were successfully escalated to higher dose levels of 5x109 CFU and 1x1010 CFU without achieving a maximum tolerated dose. Side effects noted at these higher dose levels were generally consistent with those observed at the lower dose level, other than a higher occurrence rate of predominantly Grade 2/3 hypotension. The ADXS-PSA monotherapy portion of this clinical trial has been completed and accrual and patient treatment has begun in the cohort combining ADXS-PSA and KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). 8 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JULY 31, 2017 AND 2016 Revenue During the quarter ended July 31, 2017, the Company recorded revenue of $3,051,620. The Company recognized revenue from the collaboration agreement with Amgen related to amortization of the upfront fees received. We did not record any revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2016. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expenses for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016 were categorized as follows: Axalimogene Filolisbac Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac expenses were $5,686,197 for the three months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $2,698,005 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $2,988,192. The increase resulted from startup activities for additional countries in the Phase 3 AIM2CERV study. ADXS-PSA Franchise PSA expenses were $1,366,225 for the three months ended July 31, 2017 as compared to $564,831 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $801,394. The increase resulted from higher costs incurred due to the active enrollment of an expansion cohort on the Phase 1/2 study in combination with Merck's KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 expenses were $519,790 for the three months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $476,644 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $43,146. HER2 expenses during the three months ended July 31, 2017 were consistent with the comparable prior period. ADXS-NEO Franchise NEO expenses were $553,289 for the three months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $373,006 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $180,283. The increase was attributable to Phase 1 start-up costs incurred during the three months ended July 31, 2017. Personnel Expenses Personnel expenses were $6,455,302 for the three months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $3,301,179 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $3,154,123. The increase was attributable to an increase in headcount. Professional Fees Professional fees were $5,751,377 for the three months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $1,520,417 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, and increase of $4,230,960. The increase was attributable to an increase in drug manufacturing process validation costs and drug stability studies. 9 Laboratory Costs Laboratory costs were $2,560,697 for the three months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $994,686 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $1,566,011. An increase in technical operation support as well as the expansion of laboratory space accounted for the increase. Other Expenses Other expenses were $905,262 for the three months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $213,464 for the three months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $691,798. The increase was due to additional infrastructure costs incurred to support the increased headcount and laboratory expansion. Partner Reimbursements Partner reimbursements for the three months ended July 31, 2017 were $6,000,000. For the three months ended July 31, 2017, the Company received clinical development payments from Amgen for ADXS-NEO totaling $4,500,000 and recorded an additional expected payment of $1,500,000, which was received in August 2017. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expenses were approximately $18.1 million for the three months ended July 31, 2017, compared with approximately $6.4 million for the three months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of approximately $11.7 million. The increase is primarily attributable to stock and cash compensation expense for past employees, of which approximately $9.5 million was a non-cash expense. In addition, there was an increase to legal costs on general corporate matters. Interest Income Interest income was $184,479 for the three months ended July 31, 2017, compared with $73,872 for the three months ended July 31, 2016. The increase in interest income earned was attributable to an increase in interest rates as well as cash resulting from sales of the Company's common share and an up-front payment received in conjunction with the collaboration agreement with Amgen. The cash was invested in held-to-maturity investments and a savings account. Changes in Fair Values For the three months ended July 31, 2017, the Company recorded $0 non-cash income as the fair value of the warrant liability remained $0. Most of the liability warrants have expired and the remaining liability warrants expire in August 2017. For the three months ended July 31, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $6,340 due to a decrease in the fair value of liability warrants as a smaller range of share prices used in the calculation of the BSM volatility input offset a modest increase in our share price from $7.74 at April 30, 2016 to $8.34 at July 31, 2016. 10 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED JULY 31, 2017 AND 2016 Revenue During the nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company recorded revenue of $10,267,842. The Company recognized $10,017,842 of revenue from the collaboration agreement with Amgen related to amortization of the upfront fees received. In addition, $250,000 of revenue was due to the receipt of an annual exclusive license fee from GBP for the development and commercialization of axalimogene filolisbac. During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, the Company recorded revenue of $250,000 due to the receipt of an annual exclusive license fee from GBP for the development and commercialization of axalimogene filolisbac. Research and Development Expenses We make significant investments in research and development in support of our development programs both clinically and pre-clinically. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and primarily include salary and benefit costs, third-party grants, fees paid to clinical research organizations, and supply costs. Research and development expenses for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 and 2016 were categorized as follows: Axalimogene Filolisbac Franchise Axalimogene filolisbac expenses were $14,652,010 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $8,232,741 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $6,419,269. The increase resulted from an increase in startup activities for additional countries in AIM2CERV. ADXS-PSA Franchise PSA expenses were $3,015,505 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 as compared to $1,582,037 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $1,433,468. The increase resulted from higher costs incurred due to the active enrollment of an expansion cohort on the Phase 1/2 study in combination with Merck's KEYTRUDA (pembrolizumab). ADXS-HER2 Franchise HER2 expenses were $1,510,336 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $1,409,379 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $100,957. HER2 expenses during the nine months ended July 31, 2017 were consistent with the comparable prior period. ADXS-NEO Franchise NEO expenses were $1,597,141, for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $780,092 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $817,049. The increase was attributable to Phase 1 start-up costs incurred during the nine months ended July 31, 2017. Personnel Expenses Personnel expenses were $17,010,426 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $13,600,354 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $3,410,072. The increase was attributable to an increase in headcount that was somewhat offset by stock based compensation for past employees in the prior period. 11 Professional Fees Professional fees were $10,450,279 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $4,117,140 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $6,333,139. The increase was attributable to an increase in drug manufacturing process validation costs and drug stability studies. Laboratory Costs Laboratory costs were $6,661,265 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $1,632,662 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $5,028,603. An increase in technical operation support as well as the expansion of laboratory space accounted for the increase. Other Expenses Other expenses were $1,858,467 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 compared to $611,191 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of $1,247,726. The increase was due to additional infrastructure costs incurred to support the increased headcount, laboratory expansion and abandoned patent applications. Partner Reimbursements Partner reimbursements for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 were $9,000,000. For the nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company received clinical development payments from Amgen for worked performed on ADXS-NEO totaling $4,500,000 and recorded an additional expected payment of $1,500,000, which was received in August 2017. In addition, the Company received $3,000,000 in Support Payments from Stendhal for work performed on AXAL. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily include salary and benefit costs for employees included in our finance, legal and administrative organizations, outside legal and professional services, and facilities costs. General and administrative expense were approximately $33.2 million for the nine months ended July 31, 2017, compared with approximately $20.4 million for the nine months ended July 31, 2016, an increase of approximately $12.8 million. The increase is primarily attributable to stock and cash compensation expense for past employees, of which approximately $9.5 million was a non-cash expense. In addition, there was an increase to legal costs on general corporate matters, office expenses that resulted from an increase in headcount, and a litigation settlement. Interest Income Interest income was $514,363 for the nine months ended July 31, 2017, compared with $216,061 for the nine months ended July 31, 2016. The increase in interest income earned was attributable to an increase in interest rates as well as cash resulting from sales of the Company's common share and an up-front payment received in conjunction with the collaboration agreement with Amgen. The cash was invested in held-to-maturity investments and a savings account. Changes in Fair Values For the nine months ended July 31, 2017, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $20,156 due to a smaller range of share prices used in the calculation of the Black-Scholes Model ("BSM") volatility input and the expiration of most of the liability warrants. For the nine months ended July 31, 2016, the Company recorded non-cash income from changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $56,214 due to a decrease in the fair value of liability warrants as a smaller range of share prices were used in the calculation of the BSM volatility input as well as a decrease in our share price from $11.09 at October 31, 2015 to $8.34 at July 31, 2016. Income Tax Expense During the nine months ended July 31, 2017, we paid $50,000 in Taiwanese withholding taxes in connection with the revenue generated from an annual exclusive license fee from GBP. During the nine months ended July 31, 2016, we paid $50,000 in Taiwanese withholding taxes in connection with the revenue generated from an annual exclusive license fee from GBP. The taxes paid were offset by receipt of a net cash amount of $35,774 in excess of what was recorded as Income Tax Receivable at October 31, 2015 from the sale of our state NOLs and research and development tax credits for the period ended October 31, 2014. 12 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our major sources of cash have been proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock, option and warrant exercises, and interest income. From October 2013 through August 2017, we raised approximately $222.5 million in gross proceeds from various public and private offerings of our common stock. We have not yet commercialized any drug, and we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approvals for our drug, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations, successfully compete with other available treatment options in the marketplace, overcome any clinical holds that the FDA may impose and successfully manufacture and commercialize our drug alone or in partnership. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even after we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates. As of July 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $89.4 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments on its balance sheet. We believe our current cash position is sufficient to fund our business plan approximately into fiscal 2019. The actual amount of cash that we will need to operate is subject to many factors. Since our inception through July 31, 2017, the Company has reported accumulated net losses of approximately $277.9 million and recurring negative cash flows from operations. We anticipate that we will continue to generate significant losses from operations for the foreseeable future. Cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 was approximately $58.5 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and Research and Development (R&D) tax credits of approximately $2.5 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 was approximately $31.1 million (including proceeds from the sale of our state NOLs and Research and Development (R&D) tax credits of approximately $1.6 million) primarily from spending associated with our clinical trial programs and general and administrative spending. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 was approximately $39.6 million resulting from investments in held-to-maturity investments, purchases of property and equipment, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 was approximately $6.2 million resulting from investments in held-to-maturity investments, purchases of property and equipment, construction of cleanroom and laboratory facilities, legal cost spending in support of our intangible assets (patents) and costs paid to Penn for patents. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2017 was approximately $380,000. The Company sold 92,145 shares of common stock under an at-the-market facility for net proceeds of approximately $706,000. This was partially offset by approximately $354,000 in taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended July 31, 2016 was approximately $528,000, resulting from approximately $614,000 in proceeds received on option and warrant exercises. This was partially offset by approximately $53,000 in taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Our capital resources and operations to date have been funded primarily with the proceeds from public, private equity and debt financings, NOL tax sales and income earned on investments and grants. We have sustained losses from operations in each fiscal year since our inception, and we expect losses to continue for the indefinite future, due to the substantial investment in research and development. As of July 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $277,881,078 and $207,706,825, respectively, and shareholders' equity of $74,359,192 and $119,302,194, respectively. The Company believes its current cash position is sufficient to fund its business plan approximately into fiscal 2019. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use available capital resources sooner than currently expected. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we are unable to estimate the amount of increased capital outlays and operating expenses associated with completing the development of our current product candidates. The Company recognizes it may need to raise additional capital in order to continue to execute its business plan. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed or that management will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company or whether the Company will become profitable and generate positive operating cash flow. If the Company is unable to raise sufficient additional funds, it will have to scale back its business plan, extend payables and reduce overhead until sufficient additional capital is raised to support further operations. There can be no assurance that such a plan will be successful. Contractual Commitments and Obligations The disclosure of our contractual obligations and commitments was reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2016. There have been no material changes from the contractual commitments and obligations previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K other than the changes described in Note 10, "Commitments and Contingencies" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of July 31, 2017, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. 13 Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures in the financial statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, and changes in the estimate of difference estimates that could have been selected could have material impact in our results of operations or financial condition. While we base our estimates and judgments on our experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results could differ from those estimates and the differences could be material. The most significant estimates impact the following transactions or account balances: stock compensation, warrant liability valuation and impairment of intangibles. See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses significant accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our financial statements that discusses new accounting pronouncements.