Item 1. Financial Statement ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions, except share and per-share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 1 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (In millions, except per-share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 2 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In millions) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 3 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except per-share data and as indicated) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company's lighting and energy management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting and building controls, lighting components, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and integrated lighting systems for indoor and outdoor applications utilizing a combination of light sources, including daylight, and other devices controlled by software that monitors and manages light levels while optimizing energy consumption. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio for both indoor and outdoor applications in an effort to capitalize on the evolving and growing market for intelligent networked systems that collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics to better enable smart buildings and smart cities. The transition to solid-state lighting provides the opportunity for lighting to be integrated with other building automation systems to create an optimal platform for enabling the "Internet of Things" (IoT), which will support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. The Company has one reportable segment serving the North American and select international markets. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S.generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S.GAAP") and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. References made to years are for fiscal year periods. These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company's consolidated financial position as of February29, 2016 , the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and six months ended February 29, 2016 and February28, 2015 , and the consolidated cash flows for the six months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 . Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Company's annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted. However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the three years ended August31, 2015 and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2015 (File No. 001-16583) ("Form 10-K"). The results of operations for the three and six months ended February 29, 2016 and February28, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year due primarily to seasonality resulting in the net sales and net income of the Company generally being higher in the second half of its fiscal year, the impact of the acquisitions, and among other reasons, the continued uncertainty of general economic conditions that may impact the key end markets of the Company for the remainder of fiscal 2016 . 2. Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Reclassifications Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. No material reclassifications occurred during the current period, except for the reclassification of current deferred income tax assets resulting from the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, which is discussed further in the New Accounting Pronouncements footnote. 4 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 3. Acquisitions and Investments Fiscal 2016 Acquisitions Juno Lighting LLC On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $380 all of the equity interests of Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. At the time of acquisition, Juno Lighting generated annual revenues of approximately $250 . The operating results of Juno Lighting have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Distech Controls Inc. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $240 all of the outstanding capital stock of Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. At the time of acquisition, Distech Controls generated annual revenues of approximately $80 Canadian Dollars. The operating results of Distech Controls have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Geometri LLC On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. The operating results of Geometri have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred. Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting for these acquisitions are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of February29, 2016 . The aggregate preliminary purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows: Purchase Price Cash paid, net of cash acquired $613.7 Allocation Goodwill $319.7 Intangible assets: Customer-based 1 117.0 Marketing-related 2 86.9 Technology-based 3 36.8 Property and equipment 63.4 Other assets acquired 130.1 Liabilities assumed (140.2 ) $613.7 ______________________________ (1) Customer-based intangibles have useful lives between 12 and 15 years, with a weighted average amortization period of 14 years. (2) Marketing-related intangibles are considered indefinite-lived. (3) Technology-based intangibles have useful lives between five and nine years, with a weighted average amortization period of 7.8 years. These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible and other acquired assets and liabilities. These amounts are expected to change as the Company finalizes the allocation. Proforma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to the Company's consolidated results of operations. 5 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) Fiscal 2015 Acquisition and Investment On April 15, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of ByteLight, Inc. ("ByteLight"), a provider of indoor location software for light-emitting diode ("LED") lighting. The operating results of ByteLight have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition.Management finalized the acquisition accounting for ByteLight during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and the amounts are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets . In addition, during fiscal 2015, the Company made a strategic, non-controlling investment in a company specializing in light sensory networks. This investment was accounted for using the cost method and is reflected in Other long term assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . 4. New Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2016 In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes ("ASU 2015-17"), requiring that all tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. ASU 2015-17 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company early adopted ASU 2015-17, which resulted in the reclassification of $23.1 from current deferred income taxes to noncurrent deferred income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August31, 2015 . Accounting Standards Yet to Be Adopted In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting , ("ASU 2016-09"), which will change certain aspects of accounting for share-based payments to employees. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-09. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases , ("ASU 2016-02"), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments ("ASU 2015-16"), which simplifies the accounting for measurement-period adjustments to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. ASU 2015-16 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The provisions of ASU 2015-16 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, Customer's Accounting For Fees Paid In A Cloud Computing Arrangement ("ASU 2015-05"), which provides guidance for a customer's accounting for cloud computing costs. ASU 2015-05 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2015. The provisions of ASU 2015-05 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue From Contracts With Customers ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2014-09. 5. Fair Value Measurements The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC820"), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i)unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level1), (ii)quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level2), and (iii)prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level3). 6 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The following table presents information about assets and liabilities required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis as of February29, 2016 and August31, 2015 : The Company utilizes valuation methodologies to determine the fair values of its financial assets and liabilities in conformity with the concepts of "exit price" and the fair value hierarchy as prescribed in ASC820. All valuation methods and assumptions are validated at least quarterly to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the fair values. There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period. The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities. No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period. In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence. Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASCTopic 825, Financial Instruments ("ASC825"). In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. The carrying values and estimated fair values of certain of the Company's financial instruments were as follows at February29, 2016 and August31, 2015 : Investment in noncontrolling affiliate represents a strategic investment accounted for using the cost method. The Company estimates that the historical cost of the acquired shares represents the fair value of the investment (Level 3). The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of bond discounts and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). Other long-term debt includes instruments for which fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). One of the instruments is a variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the instrument approximates fair value. ASC 825 excludes certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements. Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value to the Company. In many cases, the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, nor can the disclosed value be realized in immediate settlement of the instruments. In evaluating the Company's management of liquidity and other risks, the fair values of all assets and liabilities should be taken into consideration, not only those presented above. 7 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Through multiple acquisitions, the Company acquired intangible assets consisting primarily of trademarks and trade names associated with specific products with finite lives, definite-lived distribution networks, patented technology, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely. The Company recorded amortization expense of $6.0 and $2.8 during the three months ended February 29, 2016 and February 28, 2015 , respectively, and $11.0 and $5.6 during the six months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 , respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $23.1 in fiscal 2016 , $24.5 in fiscal 2017 , $24.5 in fiscal 2018 , $24.4 in fiscal 2019 , and $24.0 in fiscal 2020 . Amortization expense recorded by the Company, as well as expected amortization expense, include a preliminary estimate related to intangibles acquired with Distech Controls, Geometri, and Juno Lighting. These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired. Refer to the Acquisitions & Investments footnote for additional information regarding the preliminary purchase price allocation. The change in the carrying amount of goodwill during the six months ended February29, 2016 is summarized as follows: Further discussion of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 7. Inventories Inventories include materials, labor, in-bound freight, and related manufacturing overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out or average cost basis) or market, and consist of the following: _______________________________________ (1) Due to the immaterial amount of estimated work in process and the short lead times for the conversion of raw materials to finished goods, the Company does not believe the segregation of raw materials and work in process to be meaningful information. 8. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, which has been modified to include the effects of all participating securities (unvested share-based payment awards with a right to receive nonforfeitable dividends) as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share ("ASC 260"), during the period. The equity plan approved by stockholders in January 2013 changed the dividend provisions causing share-based payment awards to lose the right to receive nonforfeitable dividends. Due to this change, any shares granted after January 2013 are not participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 and are accounted for in the diluted earnings per share calculation described below. Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were 8 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) exercised, restricted stock awards (unvested share-based payment awards without a right to receive nonforfeitable dividends) were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred. Further discussion of the Company's stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-Based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. The following table calculates basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share for the three and six months ended February 29, 2016 and February28, 2015 : The following table presents stock options and restricted stock awards that were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the three and six months ended February 29, 2016 and February28, 2015 as the effect of inclusion would have been antidilutive: 9.Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income represents a measure of all changes in equity that result from recognized transactions and other economic events other than transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Other comprehensive income for the Company includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments. The following table presents the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss: 9 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The following tables present the tax expense or benefit allocated to each component of other comprehensive income (expense) for the three and six months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 : _______________________________________ (1) These accumulated other comprehensive income components are included in net periodic pension cost. See Pension and Profit Sharing Plans footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 10. Debt Lines of Credit On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a $250.0 revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding will be due and payable on August 27, 2019. The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio ("Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio") and a leverage ratio ("Maximum Leverage Ratio") of total indebtedness to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50 and a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 , subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement. As of February29, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. At February29, 2016 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $243.9 under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of February29, 2016 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.0 , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the casualty insurance programs for Acuity Brands and providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $6.1 issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. Generally, amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a "Eurocurrency Rate." Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S. Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") for the applicable currency plus a margin as determined 10 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) by the Company's leverage ratio ("Applicable Margin"). The Applicable Margin is based on the Company's leverage ratio, as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.575% . The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Revolving Credit Facility, including administrative service fees and an annual facility fee. The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company's leverage ratio as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility. This facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.300% of the aggregate $250.0 commitment of the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility. Long-term Debt At February29, 2016 , the Company had $350.0 of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the "Notes") and $4.0 of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021. The Company also had $1.1 outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans. Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Interest Expense Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings partially offset by interest income on cash and cash equivalents. The following table summarizes the components of interest expense, net: 11. Commitments and Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to the effects of certain contractual stipulations, events, transactions, and laws and regulations that may, at times, require the recognition of liabilities, such as those related to self-insurance reserves and claims, legal and contractual issues, environmental laws and regulations, guarantees, and indemnities. The Company establishes reserves when the associated costs related to uncertainties or guarantees become probable and can be reasonably estimated. For the period ended February29, 2016 , no material changes have occurred in the Company's reserves for self-insurance, litigation, environmental matters, guarantees and indemnities, or relevant events and circumstances, from those disclosed in the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Trade Compliance Matters Prior to the close of the acquisition, Distech Controls discovered shipments by it and its subsidiaries during the past five years of standard commercial building control products directly or indirectly to customers in a country that may constitute violations of U.S. and Canadian sanctions or export regulations, including those administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control ("OFAC") and the Export Controls Division ofthe Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development ("DFATD"). Distech estimates that it received total revenue of approximately $0.3 from these shipments. Distech Controls has voluntarily self-reported the potential violations to OFAC and DFATD and retained outside counsel that conducted an investigation of the matter and filed a full voluntary disclosure with these agencies. Now that the Company has acquired Distech Controls, the Company has greater access to information regarding Distech Controls' prior operations and will continue to assess the matter and implement related ongoing compliance and remediation efforts. The Company intends to fully cooperate with respect to any investigations by governmental agencies of the potential violations. The former shareholders of Distech Controls have jointly agreed to indemnify the Company for damages, if any, as a result of, in respect of, connected with or arising out of the potential violations or any inaccuracy or breach of the representations made by Distech Controls to the Company related thereto, up to a specified aggregate amount, which is not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements. These indemnity obligations are supported by an escrow account containing proceeds 11 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) from the transaction equal to the specified aggregate amount. The Company currently believes that this indemnity will be sufficient to cover any damages related to the potential violations and the costs and expenses related to the investigation thereof and any related remedial actions. The Company therefore does not expect this matter to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, cash flow, or results of operations of the Company. There can be no assurance, however, that actual damages, costs and expenses will not be in excess of the indemnity or that the Company and its affiliates will not be subject to other damages, including but not limited to damage to the Company's reputation or monetary or non-monetary penalties as permitted under applicable trade laws, that may not be fully covered by the indemnity. Estimated liabilities for legal fees as well as potential fines or penalties related to this matter are included in Other accrued liabilities within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company discovered through a review of shipment activity that it may have misclassified certain shipments of component parts to its manufacturing facilities under applicable import/export regulations. Although no claim has been asserted against the Company, the Company is reviewing these shipments to determine the extent of any liabilities and the extent of available remedial measures. The Company is unable at this time to determine the likelihood or amount of any loss associated with the misclassification of these shipments. Product Warranty and Recall Costs Acuity Brands records an allowance for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized. Estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting repair or return of that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. Estimated future warranty and recall costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty and recall claims. However, there can be no assurance that future warranty or recall costs will not exceed historical amounts or new technology products, which may include extended warranties, may not generate unexpected costs. If actual future warranty or recall costs exceed historical amounts, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. Reserves for product warranty and recall costs are included in Other accrued liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The changes in the reserves for product warranty and recall costs during the six months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 are summarized as follows: Litigation The Company is subject to various legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including patent infringement, employment matters, and product liability claims. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company in future periods. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when associated costs become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims. However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved. 12 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 12. Share-Based Payments The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan. Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-Based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. The following table presents share-based payment information for the three and six months ended February 29, 2016 and February28, 2015 : 13.Pension and Profit Sharing Plans The Company has several pension plans, both qualified and non-qualified, covering certain hourly and salaried employees. Benefits paid under these plans are based generally on employees' years of service and/or compensation during the final years of employment. Plan assets are invested primarily in equity and fixed income securities. Net periodic pension cost for the Company's defined benefit pension plans during the three and six months ended February 29, 2016 and February28, 2015 included the following components before tax: 14. Special Charge During fiscal 2015, the Company continued efforts to streamline the organization by realigning certain responsibilities primarily within various selling, distribution, and administrative departments and the consolidation of certain production activities. The Company expects that these actions to streamline its business activities, in addition to those taken in previous fiscal years, will allow it to reduce spending in certain areas while permitting continued investment in future growth initiatives, such as new products, expanded market presence, and technology and innovation. During fiscal 2015, the Company recorded a pre-tax special charge of $12.9 , consisting primarily of severance and employee-related costs of $11.9 as well as production transfer costs of $0.5 and lease termination costs of $0.5 . During fiscal 2016, the Company recognized additional severance and employee-related costs of $0.5 . 13 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) As of February29, 2016 , remaining severance reserves were $1.1 and are included in Accrued Compensation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . The changes in the reserves related to these programs during the six months ended February29, 2016 are summarized as follows: 15. Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of the Company, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Notes. See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K for further information. In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Notes and the initial purchasers of the Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms. Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, the Company determined the need for compliance with Rule3-10 of SEC RegulationS-X ("Rule3-10"). In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule3-10(d) of SEC RegulationS-X since the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding. The column marked "Parent" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands. The column marked "Subsidiary Issuer" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL. The column entitled "Subsidiary Guarantor" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding. Lastly, the column listed as "Non-Guarantors" includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries. Eliminations were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts. In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting. 14 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS 15 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS 16 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 17 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 18 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 19 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 20 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 21 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 22 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ($ in millions, except per-share data and as indicated) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included within this report. References made to years are for fiscal year periods. The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of February29, 2016 and for the three and six months ended February 29, 2016 and February28, 2015 . For a more complete understanding of this discussion, please read the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Also, please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August31, 2015 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2015 ("Form 10-K"). Overview Company Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company, with its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia, employed approximately 9,000 people worldwide as of February29, 2016 . The Company is one of the world's leading providers of lighting and energy management solutions for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company's lighting and energy management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting and building controls, lighting components, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and integrated lighting systems for indoor and outdoor applications utilizing a combination of light sources, including daylight, and other devices controlled by software that monitors and manages light levels while optimizing energy consumption. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio for both indoor and outdoor applications in an effort to capitalize on the evolving and growing market for intelligent networked systems that collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics to better enable smart buildings and smart cities. The transition to solid-state lighting provides the opportunity for lighting to be integrated with other building automation systems to create an optimal platform for enabling the "Internet of Things" (IoT), which will support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. As of February29, 2016 , the Company operates 20 manufacturing facilities and eight distribution facilities along with two warehouses to serve its extensive customer base. The Company continues to expand and enhance its portfolio of lighting solutions, including the following transactions: On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. On April 15, 2015, the Company acquired for cash substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of ByteLight, Inc. ("ByteLight"), a provider of indoor location software for LED lighting. ByteLight is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. In addition, during fiscal 2015, the Company made a strategic, non-controlling investment in a company specializing in light sensory networks. Please refer to the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements. 23 Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months. Short-term needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding potential acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board of Directors (the "Board"). Two million shares of the Company's common stock are currently authorized and available for repurchase under an existing repurchase program. The Company expects to repurchase these shares on an opportunistic basis. The Company currently expects to invest approximately two and a half percent of net sales during fiscal 2016 , of which $43.8 had been invested as of February29, 2016 , primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, as well as new and enhanced information technology capabilities. Additionally, management believes that the Company's cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company. Cash Flow The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations and capital expenditures, repurchase common stock of the Company, fund acquisitions, and pay dividends. The Company's cash position at February29, 2016 was $224.3 , a decrease of $532.5 from August31, 2015 . The decrease was due primarily to cash used to fund acquisitions of $613.7 and capital expenditures of $43.8 as well as to pay dividends to stockholders of $11.4 . The decrease was partially offset by cash flow generated from operations and stock issued under employee compensation plans. The Company generated $119.5 of cash flow from operating activities during the six months ended February29, 2016 compared with $75.5 in the prior-year period, an increase of $44.0 , due primarily to higher net income and lower operating working capital requirements partially offset by increased variable incentive compensation payments. Cash used for operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased to approximately $1.4 during the first six months of fiscal 2016 compared to approximately $19.8 during the first six months of fiscal 2015 . Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. The Company invested $43.8 and $27.0 in the first six months of fiscal 2016 and 2015 , respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology. As noted above, the Company expects to invest approximately two and a half percent of net sales primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities during fiscal 2016 . During the six months ended February29, 2016 , the Company used approximately $613.7 of cash for the acquisitions of Distech Controls, Juno Lighting, and Geometri. Capitalization The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders. As of February29, 2016 , total debt outstanding was $353.7 , compared with $352.4 at August31, 2015 , and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company borrowed $1.1 under recently-executed fixed-rate long-term bank loans. On August 27, 2014, the Company executed the Revolving Credit Facility with a borrowing capacity of $250.0. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable on August 27, 2019. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility as of February29, 2016 . At February29, 2016 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $243.9 under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of February29, 2016 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.0 , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the casualty insurance programs for Acuity Brands and providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $6.1 issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . During the first six months of fiscal 2016 , the Company's consolidated stockholders' equity increased $133.4 to $1,493.4 at February29, 2016 from $1,360.0 at August31, 2015 . The increase was due primarily to net income earned in the period, as well as amortization of stock-based compensation, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses partially offset by dividend payments and foreign currency translation adjustments. The Company's debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total 24 debt and total stockholders' equity) was 19.1% and 20.6% at February29, 2016 and August31, 2015 , respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was 8.0% at February29, 2016 and (42.3)% at August31, 2015 . Dividends Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $11.4 and $11.3 ( $0.26 per share) during the six months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 , respectively. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends by Acuity Brands are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of the Company's financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant. Results of Operations Second Quarter of Fiscal 2016 Compared with Second Quarter of Fiscal 2015 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the three months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 : Net sales were $777.8 for the three months ended February29, 2016 compared with $616.1 reported for the three months ended February28, 2015 , an increase of $161.7 , or 26.2% . For the three months ended February29, 2016 , the Company reported net income of $65.5 , an increase of $19.1 , or 41.2% , compared with $46.4 for the three months ended February28, 2015 . For the second quarter of fiscal 2016 , diluted earnings per share increased 39.3% to $1.49 compared with $1.07 reported in the year-ago period. The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, and special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization. Although special charges, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and share-based compensation expense have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, management typically excludes these charges during internal reviews of performance and uses these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted selling, distribution, and administrative expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Company's current financial performance. Spec 25 ifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory, professional fees, and certain contract termination costs. 26 Net Sales Net sales for the three months ended February29, 2016 increased 26% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to a 17% increase in sales volume and approximately 11% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by unfavorable price/mix of approximately 1% and unfavorable foreign currency rate changes of approximately 1% . Sales volume was higher across most product categories and key sales channels as the Company realized greater demand for LED-based luminaires. Sales of LED-based products increased approximately 40% compared to the year-ago period and represented approximately 55% of total net sales. The change in price/mix was due primarily to unfavorable pricing on LED luminaires, reflecting the decline in certain LED component costs, as well as a change in sales channel mix. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify volume or differentiate the individual components of price/mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 increased $81.2 , or 31.8% , to $336.9 compared with $255.7 in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin increased 180 basis points to 43.3% for the three months ended February29, 2016 compared with 41.5% in the prior-year period. Gross profit was higher than the prior-year period due primarily to additional contribution on higher net sales, productivity improvements, as well as lower material and component costs and lower warranty and recall costs. These benefits were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of acquired profit in inventory and price/mix. Adjusted gross profit for the three months ended February29, 2016 was $338.3 ( 43.5% of net sales) compared with gross profit of $255.7 ( 41.5% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit Selling, Distribution, and Administrative ("SD&A") expenses for the three months ended February29, 2016 were $230.1 compared with $177.7 in the prior-year period, an increase of $52.4 , or 29.5% . The increase in SD&A expenses was due primarily to higher costs to support the greater sales volume, including freight and commissions, higher employee-related costs, including share-based incentive compensation, increased SD&A expense related to acquired businesses, and increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. SD&A expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 were 29.6% of net sales compared with 28.8% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the three months ended February29, 2016 were $210.9 ( 27.1% of net sales) compared with $169.9 ( 27.6% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 was $106.7 compared with $78.6 for the prior-year period, an increase of $28.1 , or 35.8% . The increase in operating profit was due primarily to higher gross profit, partially offset by higher costs to support greater sales volume, higher employee-related costs, including share-based incentive compensation, and increased amortization expense related to recent acquisitions. Adjusted operating profit increased by $41.6 , or 48.5% , to $127.4 for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with $85.8 for the second quarter of fiscal 2015 . Adjusted operating profit margin increased 250 basis points to 16.4% for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with 13.9% for the year-ago period. Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income/expense, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions. Interest expense, net, was $8.2 and $8.0 for the three months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 , respectively. The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $1.1 and $0.1 for the three months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 , respectively. Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 34.2% and 34.4% for the three months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 , respectively. The Company estimates that the effective tax rate for fiscal 2016 will be approximately 35.5% before any discrete items and if the rates in its taxing jurisdictions remain generally consistent throughout the year. Net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 increased $19.1 to $65.5 from $46.4 reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended February29, 2016 increased $0.42 to $1.49 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.07 for the prior-year period. 27 Adjusted net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 was $79.1 compared with $51.3 in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $27.8 , or 54.2% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended February29, 2016 increased $0.62 , or 52.5% , to $1.80 compared with $1.18 for the prior-year period. First Six Months of Fiscal 2016 Compared with First Six Months of Fiscal 2015 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the six months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 : Net sales were $1,514.4 for the six months ended February29, 2016 compared with $1,263.5 reported for the six months ended February28, 2015 , an increase of $250.9 , or 19.9% . For the six months ended February29, 2016 , the Company reported net income of $133.9 , an increase of $36.4 , or 37.3% , compared with $97.5 for the six months ended February28, 2015 . For the first six months of fiscal 2016 , diluted earnings per share increased 36.6% to $3.06 compared with $2.24 reported in the year-ago period. 28 The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, and special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization. ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory, professional fees, and certain contract termination costs. Net Sales Net sales for the six months ended February29, 2016 increased $250.9 , or 20% , compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an increase in sales volume of approximately 15% and approximately 7% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of an unfavorable change in price/mix of approximately 1% and approximately 1% unfavorable foreign currency rate changes. Sales volume was higher across most product categories and key sales channels as the Company realized greater demand for LED-based luminaires. Sales of LED-based luminaires during the first six months of fiscal 2016 increased approximately 40% compared to the year-ago period and represented approximately 54% of total net sales. The 29 change in price/mix was due primarily to unfavorable pricing on LED luminaires, reflecting the decline in certain LED component costs. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify volume or differentiate the individual components of price/mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2016 increased $127.6 , or 24.1% , to $656.3 compared with $528.7 in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin increased to 43.3% for the six months ended February29, 2016 compared with 41.8% in the prior-year period. Gross profit was higher than the prior-year period due primarily to additional contribution on higher net sales, productivity improvements, as well as lower material and component costs and lower warranty and recall costs. These benefits were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of acquired profit in inventory and price/mix. Adjusted gross profit for the six months ended February29, 2016 was $658.3 ( 43.5% of net sales) compared with gross profit of $528.7 ( 41.8% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit SD&A expenses for the six months ended February29, 2016 were $436.7 compared with $354.0 in the prior-year period, an increase of $82.7 , or 23.4% . The increase in SD&A expenses was due primarily to higher costs to support the greater sales volume, including freight and commissions, higher employee-related costs, including share-based incentive compensation, increased SD&A expense related to acquired businesses, and increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. SD&A expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2016 were 28.8% of net sales compared with 28.0% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the six months ended February29, 2016 were $405.0 ( 26.7% of net sales) compared with $339.2 ( 26.8% of net sales) in the prior-year period. The Company recognized pre-tax special charges of $0.5 during the first six months of fiscal 2016 , compared with pre-tax special charges of $9.4 during the first six months of fiscal 2015 related primarily to the Company's continued efforts to streamline the organization by realigning certain responsibilities primarily within various SD&A departments and the consolidation of certain production activities. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Operating profit for the first six months of fiscal 2016 was $219.1 compared with $165.3 for the prior-year period, an increase of $53.8 , or 32.5% . The increase in operating profit for the first six months of fiscal 2016 compared with the first six months of fiscal 2015 was due primarily to higher gross profit and lower special charges, partially offset by higher costs to support greater sales volume, higher employee-related costs, including share-based incentive compensation, and increased amortization expense related to recent acquisitions. Adjusted operating profit increased by $63.8 , or 33.7% , to $253.3 for the first six months of fiscal 2016 compared with $189.5 for the first six months of fiscal 2015 . Adjusted operating profit margin for the first six months of fiscal 2016 increased 170 basis points to 16.7% compared with 15.0% in the year-ago period. Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions. Interest expense, net, was $16.1 for the six months ended February29, 2016 compared with $15.9 for the six months ended February28, 2015 . The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $1.8 in the first six months of fiscal 2016 compared with $1.0 in the prior-year period. Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 34.6% and 35.2% for the six months ended February29, 2016 and February28, 2015 , respectively. Net income for the first six months of fiscal 2016 increased $36.4 to $133.9 from $97.5 reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February29, 2016 increased $0.82 to $3.06 compared with diluted earnings per share of $2.24 for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the first six months of fiscal 2016 was $156.6 compared with $113.2 in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $43.4 , or 38.3% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February29, 2016 increased $0.98 , or 37.7% , to $3.58 compared with $2.60 for the prior-year period. 30 Outlook Management believes that the execution of the Company's strategy will provide opportunities for continued profitable growth. The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting product and energy management solutions portfolio combined with its extensive market presence and financial strength. Management will continue to drive the creation of a world-class, cost-efficient supply chain and service capability, while also reducing and/or eliminating resources allocated to specific areas of slower and/or declining growth. Management continues to position the Company to optimize short-term performance while investing in and deploying resources for long-term profitable growth opportunities. In September 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of Distech Controls, a provider of building automation solutions. Distech Controls generated net sales in excess of $80 Canadian dollars during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015, and achieved a five-year annual growth rate of over 25%. Additionally, the Company acquired Juno Lighting and Geometri in mid-December 2015. Juno Lighting generated revenues of approximately $250 in the trailing 12-month period prior to being acquired by the Company. Geometri, a small yet fast growing business intelligence company, will enhance the Company's growing portfolio of intelligent networked lighting and building automation solutions. Management expects these acquisitions to be accretive to the Company's fiscal 2016 consolidated financial results. The growth rate for the North American lighting market, which typically benefits from new construction as well as renovation and retrofit activity, is projected to be in the mid-to-upper single digit range for fiscal 2016 with continued growth over the next several years. In addition to the projected growth in the Company's primary end-markets, management currently believes that the Company should benefit from recent acquisitions, further growth from the introduction of new lighting and building automation solutions, and expansion in underpenetrated geographies and channels. From a longer term perspective, management expects that the Company's addressable markets will experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the "Internet of Things" (IoT) through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. Management remains positive about the future prospects of the Company and its ability to outperform the markets it serves. Critical Accounting Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements , which have been prepared in accordance with U.S.GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; accounts receivable; inventory valuation; depreciation, amortization and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based compensation expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; income taxes; retirement benefits; litigation; and environmental matters. Management bases its estimates and judgments on its substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management discusses the development of accounting estimates with the Company's Audit Committee of the Board. There have been no material changes in the Company's critical accounting estimates during the current period. For a detailed discussion of significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, please refer to the Company's Form 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as "expects", "believes", "intends", "anticipates" and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company. In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company's behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company's projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting market growth rate and growth in the 31 Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels and introduce new lighting and building automation solutions; (e) the Company's estimate of its fiscal 2016 annual tax rate; (f) the Company's estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company's ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; (h) the Company's expectations about the Distech Controls, Juno Lighting, and other acquisitions; and (i) the Company's expectations about the resolution of the trade compliance matter. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this annual report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The Company's forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the Company and management's present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company. Also, additional risks that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, "Item 1a. Risk Factors" of the Company's Form10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.Item 1. Financial Statement ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions, except share and per-share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 1 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (In millions, except per-share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 2 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In millions) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 3 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) (Amounts in millions, except per-share data and as indicated) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company's lighting and energy management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting and building controls, lighting components, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and integrated lighting systems for indoor and outdoor applications utilizing a combination of light sources, including daylight, and other devices controlled by software that monitors and manages light levels while optimizing energy consumption. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio for both indoor and outdoor applications in an effort to capitalize on the evolving and growing market for intelligent networked systems that collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics to better enable smart buildings and smart cities. The transition to solid-state lighting provides the opportunity for lighting to be integrated with other building automation systems to create an optimal platform for enabling the "Internet of Things" (IoT), which will support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. The Company has one reportable segment serving the North American and select international markets. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S.generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S.GAAP") and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. References made to years are for fiscal year periods. These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company's consolidated financial position as of May31, 2016 , the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2016 and May31, 2015 , and the consolidated cash flows for the nine months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 . Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Company's annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted. However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the three years ended August31, 2015 and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2015 (File No. 001-16583) ("Form 10-K"). The results of operations for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2016 and May31, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year due primarily to seasonality resulting in the net sales and net income of the Company generally being higher in the second half of its fiscal year, the impact of the acquisitions, and among other reasons, the continued uncertainty of general economic conditions that may impact the key end markets of the Company for the remainder of fiscal 2016 . 2. Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Reclassifications Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. No material reclassifications occurred during the current period. 4 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 3. Acquisitions and Investments Fiscal 2016 Acquisitions Juno Lighting LLC On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $380 all of the equity interests of Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. At the time of acquisition, Juno Lighting generated annual revenues of approximately $250 . The operating results of Juno Lighting have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Distech Controls Inc. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $240 all of the outstanding capital stock of Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. At the time of acquisition, Distech Controls generated annual revenues of approximately $80 Canadian Dollars. The operating results of Distech Controls have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Geometri LLC On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. The operating results of Geometri have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Accounting for Fiscal 2016 Acquisitions Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred. Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition accounting for these acquisitions are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May31, 2016 . The aggregate preliminary purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows: ______________________________ (1) Customer-based intangibles have useful lives between 12 and 15 years, with a weighted average amortization period of 14 years. (2) Marketing-related intangibles are considered indefinite-lived. (3) Technology-based intangibles have useful lives between five and fifteen years, with a weighted average amortization period of 11.8 years. These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible and other acquired assets and liabilities. These amounts are expected to change as the Company finalizes the allocation. During the third quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company continued to gather information regarding the valuation of marketing-related and technology-based intangibles, resulting in changes to the allocation noted above. 5 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) Proforma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to the Company's consolidated results of operations. Fiscal 2015 Acquisition and Investment On April 15, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of ByteLight, Inc. ("ByteLight"), a provider of indoor location software for light-emitting diode ("LED") lighting. The operating results of ByteLight have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition.Management finalized the acquisition accounting for ByteLight during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and the amounts are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets . In addition, during fiscal 2015, the Company made a strategic, non-controlling investment in a company specializing in light sensory networks. This investment was accounted for using the cost method and is reflected in Other long term assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . 4. New Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2016 In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes ("ASU 2015-17"), requiring that all tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. ASU 2015-17 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company early adopted ASU 2015-17, which resulted in the reclassification of $23.1 from current deferred income taxes to noncurrent deferred income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August31, 2015 . Accounting Standards Yet to Be Adopted In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting , ("ASU 2016-09"), which will change certain aspects of accounting for share-based payments to employees. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The standard requires that all excess tax benefits and deficiencies currently recorded as additional paid in capital be prospectively recorded in income tax expense. As such, implementation of this standard could create volatility in the Company's effective income tax rate on a quarter by quarter basis. The volatility in the effective income tax rate is due primarily to fluctuations in the Company's stock price and the timing of stock option exercises and vesting of restricted share grants. The standard also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows rather than as a financing activity. This element of the guidance may be applied retrospectively or prospectively. The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2018. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases , ("ASU 2016-02"), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments ("ASU 2015-16"), which simplifies the accounting for measurement-period adjustments to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. ASU 2015-16 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The provisions of ASU 2015-16 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, Customer's Accounting For Fees Paid In A Cloud Computing Arrangement ("ASU 2015-05"), which provides guidance for a customer's accounting for cloud computing costs. ASU 2015-05 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2015. The provisions of ASU 2015-05 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue From Contracts With Customers ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017. ASU 2014-09 permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2014-09. All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable. 6 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 5. Fair Value Measurements The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC820"), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i)unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level1), (ii)quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level2), and (iii)prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level3). The following table presents information about assets and liabilities required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis as of May31, 2016 and August31, 2015 : The Company utilizes valuation methodologies to determine the fair values of its financial assets and liabilities in conformity with the concepts of "exit price" and the fair value hierarchy as prescribed in ASC820. All valuation methods and assumptions are validated at least quarterly to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the fair values. There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period. The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities. No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period. In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence. Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASCTopic 825, Financial Instruments ("ASC825"). In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. The carrying values and estimated fair values of certain of the Company's financial instruments were as follows at May31, 2016 and August31, 2015 : Investment in noncontrolling affiliate represents a strategic investment accounted for using the cost method. The Company estimates that the historical cost of the acquired shares represents the fair value of the investment (Level 3). The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of bond discounts and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). 7 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) Other long-term debt includes instruments for which fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). One of the instruments is a variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the instrument approximates fair value. ASC 825 excludes certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements. Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value to the Company. In many cases, the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, nor can the disclosed value be realized in immediate settlement of the instruments. In evaluating the Company's management of liquidity and other risks, the fair values of all assets and liabilities should be taken into consideration, not only those presented above. 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Through multiple acquisitions, the Company acquired intangible assets consisting primarily of trademarks and trade names associated with specific products with finite lives, definite-lived distribution networks, patented technology, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely. The Company recorded amortization expense of $7.5 and $2.7 during the three months ended May 31, 2016 and May 31, 2015 , respectively, and $18.5 and $8.3 during the nine months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 , respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $25.1 in fiscal 2016 , $27.1 in fiscal 2017 , $27.1 in fiscal 2018 , $27.1 in fiscal 2019 , and $25.8 in fiscal 2020 . Amortization expense recorded by the Company, as well as expected amortization expense, include a preliminary estimate related to intangibles acquired with Distech Controls, Geometri, and Juno Lighting. These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired. Refer to the Acquisitions & Investments footnote for additional information regarding the preliminary purchase price allocation. The change in the carrying amount of goodwill during the nine months ended May31, 2016 is summarized as follows: Further discussion of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 7. Inventories Inventories include materials, labor, in-bound freight, and related manufacturing overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out or average cost basis) or market, and consist of the following: _______________________________________ (1) Due to the immaterial amount of estimated work in process and the short lead times for the conversion of raw materials to finished goods, the Company does not believe the segregation of raw materials and work in process to be meaningful information. 8 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 8. Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, which has been modified to include the effects of all participating securities (unvested share-based payment awards with a right to receive nonforfeitable dividends) as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share ("ASC 260"), during the period. The equity plan approved by stockholders in January 2013 changed the dividend provisions causing share-based payment awards to lose the right to receive nonforfeitable dividends. Due to this change, any shares granted after January 2013 are not participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 and are accounted for in the diluted earnings per share calculation described below. Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, restricted stock awards (unvested share-based payment awards without a right to receive nonforfeitable dividends) were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred. Further discussion of the Company's stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-Based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. The following table calculates basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2016 and May31, 2015 : The following table presents stock options and restricted stock awards that were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2016 and May31, 2015 as the effect of inclusion would have been antidilutive: 9 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 9.Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income represents a measure of all changes in equity that result from recognized transactions and other economic events other than transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Other comprehensive income for the Company includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments. The following table presents the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss: The following tables present the tax expense or benefit allocated to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) for the three and nine months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 : _______________________________________ (1) These accumulated other comprehensive income components are included in net periodic pension cost. See Pension and Profit Sharing Plans footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 10 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 10. Debt Lines of Credit On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a $250.0 revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding will be due and payable on August 27, 2019. The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio ("Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio") and a leverage ratio ("Maximum Leverage Ratio") of total indebtedness to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50 and a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 , subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement. As of May31, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. At May31, 2016 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $243.9 under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of May31, 2016 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.0 , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the casualty insurance programs for Acuity Brands and providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $6.1 issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. Generally, amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a "Eurocurrency Rate." Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S. Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") for the applicable currency plus a margin as determined by the Company's leverage ratio ("Applicable Margin"). The Applicable Margin is based on the Company's leverage ratio, as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.575% . The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Revolving Credit Facility, including administrative service fees and an annual facility fee. The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company's leverage ratio as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility. This facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.300% of the aggregate $250.0 commitment of the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility. Long-term Debt At May31, 2016 , the Company had $350.0 of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the "Notes") and $4.0 of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021. The Company also had $1.7 outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans. Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Interest Expense Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings partially offset by interest income on cash and cash equivalents. The following table summarizes the components of interest expense, net: 11 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 11. Commitments and Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to the effects of certain contractual stipulations, events, transactions, and laws and regulations that may, at times, require the recognition of liabilities, such as those related to self-insurance reserves and claims, legal and contractual issues, environmental laws and regulations, guarantees, and indemnities. The Company establishes reserves when the associated costs related to uncertainties or guarantees become probable and can be reasonably estimated. For the period ended May31, 2016 , no material changes have occurred in the Company's reserves for self-insurance, litigation, environmental matters, guarantees and indemnities, or relevant events and circumstances, from those disclosed in the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Trade Compliance Matters Prior to the close of the acquisition, Distech Controls discovered shipments by it and its subsidiaries during the past five years of standard commercial building control products directly or indirectly to customers in a country that may constitute violations of U.S. and Canadian sanctions or export regulations, including those administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control ("OFAC") and the Export Controls Division ofthe Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development ("DFATD"). Distech Controls estimates that it received total revenue of approximately $0.3 from these shipments. Distech Controls has voluntarily self-reported the potential violations to OFAC and DFATD and retained outside counsel that conducted an investigation of the matter and filed a full voluntary disclosure with these agencies. Now that the Company has acquired Distech Controls, the Company has greater access to information regarding Distech Controls' prior operations and will continue to assess the matter and implement related ongoing compliance and remediation efforts. The Company intends to fully cooperate with respect to any investigations by governmental agencies of the potential violations. The former shareholders of Distech Controls have jointly agreed to indemnify the Company for damages, if any, as a result of, in respect of, connected with or arising out of the potential violations or any inaccuracy or breach of the representations made by Distech Controls to the Company related thereto, up to a specified aggregate amount, which is not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements. These indemnity obligations are supported by an escrow account containing proceeds from the transaction equal to the specified aggregate amount. The Company currently believes that this indemnity will be sufficient to cover any damages related to the potential violations and the costs and expenses related to the investigation thereof and any related remedial actions. The Company therefore does not expect this matter to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, cash flow, or results of operations of the Company. There can be no assurance, however, that actual damages, costs and expenses will not be in excess of the indemnity or that the Company and its affiliates will not be subject to other damages, including but not limited to damage to the Company's reputation or monetary or non-monetary penalties as permitted under applicable trade laws, that may not be fully covered by the indemnity. Estimated liabilities for legal fees as well as potential fines or penalties related to this matter are included in Other accrued liabilities within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company discovered through a review of shipment activity that it may have misclassified certain shipments of component parts to its manufacturing facilities under applicable import/export regulations. Although no claim has been asserted against the Company, the Company is reviewing these shipments to determine the extent of any liabilities and the extent of available remedial measures. The Company is unable at this time to determine the likelihood or amount of any loss associated with the misclassification of these shipments. Product Warranty and Recall Costs Acuity Brands records an allowance for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized. Estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting repair or return of that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. Estimated future warranty and recall costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty and recall claims. However, there can be no assurance that future warranty or recall costs will not exceed historical amounts or new technology products, which may include extended warranties, may not generate unexpected costs. If actual future warranty or recall costs exceed historical amounts, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. 12 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) Reserves for product warranty and recall costs are included in Other accrued liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The changes in the reserves for product warranty and recall costs during the nine months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 are summarized as follows: Litigation The Company is subject to various legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including patent infringement, employment matters, and product liability claims. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company in future periods. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when associated costs become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims. However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved. 12. Share-Based Payments The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan. Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-Based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. The following table presents share-based payment information for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2016 and May31, 2015 : 13.Pension and Profit Sharing Plans The Company has several pension plans, both qualified and non-qualified, covering certain hourly and salaried employees. Benefits paid under these plans are based generally on employees' years of service and/or compensation during the final years of employment. Plan assets are invested primarily in equity and fixed income securities. 13 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) Net periodic pension cost for the Company's defined benefit pension plans during the three and nine months ended May 31, 2016 and May31, 2015 included the following components before tax: 14. Special Charge Fiscal 2016 Actions During fiscal 2016, the Company recorded a pre-tax special charge of $10.2 , consisting primarily of severance and employee-related costs, for actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various selling, distribution, and administrative departments. The Company expects that these actions to streamline its business activities, in addition to those taken in previous fiscal years, will allow it to reduce spending in certain areas while permitting continued investment in future growth initiatives, such as new products, expanded market presence, and technology and innovation. Fiscal 2015 Actions During fiscal 2015, the Company streamlined the organization by realigning certain responsibilities primarily within various selling, distribution, and administrative departments and the consolidation of certain production activities. During fiscal 2015, the Company recorded a pre-tax special charge of $12.9 , consisting primarily of severance and employee-related costs of $11.9 as well as production transfer costs of $0.5 and lease termination costs of $0.5 . As of May31, 2016 , remaining severance reserves were $8.9 and are included in Accrued Compensation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . The changes in the reserves related to these programs during the nine months ended May31, 2016 are summarized as follows: 14 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 15. Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of the Company, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Notes. See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K for further information. In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Notes and the initial purchasers of the Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms. Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, the Company determined the need for compliance with Rule3-10 of SEC RegulationS-X ("Rule3-10"). In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule3-10(d) of SEC RegulationS-X since the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding. The column marked "Parent" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands. The column marked "Subsidiary Issuer" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL. The column entitled "Subsidiary Guarantor" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding. Lastly, the column listed as "Non-Guarantors" includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries. Eliminations were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts. In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting. 15 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS 16 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS 17 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 18 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 19 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 20 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 21 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 22 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 23 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ($ in millions, except per-share data and as indicated) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included within this report. References made to years are for fiscal year periods. The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of May31, 2016 and for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2016 and May31, 2015 . For a more complete understanding of this discussion, please read the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Also, please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August31, 2015 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2015 ("Form 10-K"). Overview Company Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company, with its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia, employed approximately 10,000 people worldwide as of May31, 2016 . The Company is one of the world's leading providers of lighting and energy management solutions for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company's lighting and energy management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting and building controls, lighting components, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and integrated lighting systems for indoor and outdoor applications utilizing a combination of light sources, including daylight, and other devices controlled by software that monitors and manages light levels while optimizing energy consumption. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio for both indoor and outdoor applications in an effort to capitalize on the evolving and growing market for intelligent networked systems that collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics to better enable smart buildings and smart cities. The transition to solid-state lighting provides the opportunity for lighting to be integrated with other building automation systems to create an optimal platform for enabling the "Internet of Things" (IoT), which will support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. As of May31, 2016 , the Company operates 20 manufacturing facilities and eight distribution facilities along with two warehouses to serve its extensive customer base. The Company continues to expand and enhance its portfolio of lighting solutions, including the following transactions: On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. On April 15, 2015, the Company acquired for cash substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of ByteLight, Inc. ("ByteLight"), a provider of indoor location software for LED lighting. ByteLight is headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. In addition, during fiscal 2015, the Company made a strategic, non-controlling investment in a company specializing in light sensory networks. Please refer to the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements. Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months. Short-term needs are 24 expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding potential acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board of Directors (the "Board"). Two million shares of the Company's common stock are currently authorized and available for repurchase under an existing repurchase program. The Company expects to repurchase these shares on an opportunistic basis. The Company currently expects to invest approximately two and a half percent of net sales during fiscal 2016 , of which $61.8 had been invested as of May31, 2016 , primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, as well as new and enhanced information technology capabilities. Additionally, management believes that the Company's cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company. Cash Flow The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations and capital expenditures, repurchase common stock of the Company, fund acquisitions, and pay dividends. The Company's cash position at May31, 2016 was $337.0 , a decrease of $419.8 from August31, 2015 . The decrease was due primarily to cash used to fund acquisitions of $613.7 and capital expenditures of $61.8 as well as to pay dividends to stockholders of $17.1 . The decrease was partially offset by cash flow generated from operations and stock issued under employee compensation plans. The Company generated $243.9 of cash flow from operating activities during the nine months ended May31, 2016 compared with $158.2 in the prior-year period, an increase of $85.7 , due primarily to higher net income and lower operating working capital requirements partially offset by increased variable incentive compensation payments. Cash used for operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased to $11.2 during the first nine months of fiscal 2016 compared to $55.2 during the first nine months of fiscal 2015 . Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. The Company invested $61.8 and $42.3 in the first nine months of fiscal 2016 and 2015 , respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology. As noted above, the Company expects to invest approximately two and a half percent of net sales primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities during fiscal 2016 . During the nine months ended May31, 2016 , the Company used approximately $613.7 of cash for the acquisitions of Distech Controls, Juno Lighting, and Geometri. Capitalization The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders. As of May31, 2016 , total debt outstanding was $354.4 , compared with $352.4 at August31, 2015 , and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. During fiscal 2016, the Company borrowed $1.7 under recently-executed fixed-rate long-term bank loans. On August 27, 2014, the Company executed the Revolving Credit Facility with a borrowing capacity of $250.0. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable on August 27, 2019. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility as of May31, 2016 . At May31, 2016 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $243.9 under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of May31, 2016 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.0 , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the casualty insurance programs for Acuity Brands and providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $6.1 issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . During the first nine months of fiscal 2016 , the Company's consolidated stockholders' equity increased $227.9 to $1,587.9 at May31, 2016 from $1,360.0 at August31, 2015 . The increase was due primarily to net income earned in the period, as well as amortization of stock-based compensation, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses partially offset by dividend payments and foreign currency translation adjustments. The Company's debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders' equity) was 18.2% and 20.6% at May31, 2016 and August31, 2015 , respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was 1.1% at May31, 2016 and (42.3)% at August31, 2015 . 25 Dividends Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $17.1 and $17.0 ( $0.39 per share) during the nine months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 , respectively. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends by Acuity Brands are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of the Company's financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant. Results of Operations Third Quarter of Fiscal 2016 Compared with Third Quarter of Fiscal 2015 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the three months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 : Net sales were $851.5 for the three months ended May31, 2016 compared with $683.7 reported for the three months ended May31, 2015 , an increase of $167.8 , or 24.5% . For the three months ended May31, 2016 , the Company reported net income of $74.0 , an increase of $9.5 , or 14.7% , compared with $64.5 for the three months ended May31, 2015 . For the third quarter of fiscal 2016 , diluted earnings per share increased 14.2% to $1.69 compared with $1.48 reported in the year-ago period. The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, and special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization. Although special charges, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and share-based compensation expense have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, management typically excludes these charges during internal reviews of performance and uses these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted selling, distribution, and administrative expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted other expense (income), adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Company's current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 26 ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory and professional fees. 27 Net Sales Net sales for the three months ended May31, 2016 increased 25% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to a 16% increase in sales volume and approximately 12% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in product prices and the mix of products sold ("price/mix") of approximately 2% and approximately 1% unfavorable foreign currency rate changes. Sales volume was higher across most product categories and key sales channels as the Company realized greater demand for LED-based luminaires. Sales of LED-based products represented approximately 60% of total net sales. The change in price/mix was due primarily to unfavorable pricing on LED luminaires, reflecting the decline in certain LED component costs, and to a lesser degree, changes in the mix of products sold. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify volume or differentiate the individual components of price/mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 increased $82.3 , or 27.8% , to $377.9 compared with $295.6 in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin increased 120 basis points to 44.4% for the three months ended May31, 2016 compared with 43.2% in the prior-year period. Gross profit was higher than the prior-year period due primarily to additional contribution on higher net sales, productivity improvements, as well as lower material and component costs. These benefits were partially offset by higher warranty and recall costs, the unfavorable impact of acquired profit in inventory, and unfavorable price/mix. Adjusted gross profit for the three months ended May31, 2016 was $378.8 ( 44.5% of net sales) compared with gross profit of $295.6 ( 43.2% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit Selling, Distribution, and Administrative ("SD&A") expenses for the three months ended May31, 2016 were $247.2 compared with $196.0 in the prior-year period, an increase of $51.2 , or 26.1% . The increase in SD&A expenses was due primarily to higher costs to support the greater sales volume, including freight and commissions, higher employee-related costs, including incentive compensation, increased SD&A expense related to acquired businesses, and increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. SD&A expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 were 29.0% of net sales compared with 28.7% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the three months ended May31, 2016 were $232.7 ( 27.3% of net sales) compared with $187.5 ( 27.4% of net sales) in the prior-year period. The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $9.7 during the third quarter of fiscal 2016 , compared with a pre-tax special charge of $0.4 during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 . Fiscal 2016 charges related primarily to actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various SD&A departments. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Operating profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 was $121.0 compared with $99.2 for the prior-year period, an increase of $21.8 , or 22.0% . The increase in operating profit was due primarily to higher gross profit, partially offset by higher costs to support greater sales volume, higher employee-related costs, including incentive compensation, increased amortization expense related to recent acquisitions, and higher special charges. Adjusted operating profit increased by $38.0 , or 35.2% , to $146.1 for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with $108.1 for the third quarter of fiscal 2015 . Adjusted operating profit margin increased 140 basis points to 17.2% for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 compared with 15.8% for the year-ago period. Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income/expense, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions. Interest expense, net, was $8.1 and $7.9 for the three months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 , respectively. The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $0.3 and $9.5 for the three months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 , respectively. Net miscellaneous income for the three months ended May31, 2015 included a $10.5 net gain associated with two financial instruments intended to mitigate the foreign currency exposure associated with the Distech Controls Canadian-dollar acquisition. 28 Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 34.3% and 36.0% for the three months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 , respectively. The Company estimates that the effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 will be approximately 35.5% before any discrete items and if the rates in its taxing jurisdictions remain generally consistent throughout the year. Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 increased $9.5 to $74.0 from $64.5 reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit partially offset by higher other expense and a higher provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May31, 2016 increased $0.21 to $1.69 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.48 for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 was $90.4 compared with $64.2 in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $26.2 , or 40.8% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May31, 2016 increased $0.59 , or 40.1% , to $2.06 compared with $1.47 for the prior-year period. First Nine Months of Fiscal 2016 Compared with First Nine Months of Fiscal 2015 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the nine months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 : Net sales were $2,365.9 for the nine months ended May31, 2016 compared with $1,947.2 reported for the nine months ended May31, 2015 , an increase of $418.7 , or 21.5% . For the nine months ended May31, 2016 , the Company reported net income of $207.9 , an increase of $45.9 , or 28.3% , compared with $162.0 for the nine months ended May31, 2015 . For the first nine months of fiscal 2016 , diluted earnings per share increased 27.7% to $4.75 compared with $3.72 reported in the year-ago period. 29 The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, and special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization. ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory, professional fees, and certain contract termination costs. 30 Net Sales Net sales for the nine months ended May31, 2016 increased $418.7 , or 22% , compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an increase in sales volume of approximately 16% and approximately 9% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of an unfavorable change in price/mix of approximately 2% and approximately 1% unfavorable foreign currency rate changes. Sales volume was higher across most product categories and key sales channels as the Company realized greater demand for LED-based luminaires. Sales of LED-based luminaires during the first nine months of fiscal 2016 represented more than 55% of total net sales. The change in price/mix was due primarily to unfavorable pricing on LED luminaires, reflecting the decline in certain LED component costs. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify volume or differentiate the individual components of price/mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 increased $209.9 , or 25.5% , to $1,034.2 compared with $824.3 in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin increased to 43.7% for the nine months ended May31, 2016 compared with 42.3% in the prior-year period. Gross profit was higher than the prior-year period due primarily to additional contribution on higher net sales, productivity improvements, as well as lower material and component costs. These benefits were partially offset by higher warranty and recall costs, the unfavorable impact of acquired profit in inventory, and unfavorable price/mix. Adjusted gross profit for the nine months ended May31, 2016 was $1,036.9 ( 43.8% of net sales) compared with gross profit of $824.3 ( 42.3% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit SD&A expenses for the nine months ended May31, 2016 were $683.9 compared with $550.0 in the prior-year period, an increase of $133.9 , or 24.3% . The increase in SD&A expenses was due primarily to higher costs to support the greater sales volume, including freight and commissions, higher employee-related costs, including incentive compensation, increased SD&A expense related to acquired businesses, and increased amortization of acquired intangible assets. SD&A expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 were 28.9% of net sales compared with 28.2% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the nine months ended May31, 2016 were $637.8 ( 27.0% of net sales) compared with $526.7 ( 27.0% of net sales) in the prior-year period. The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $10.2 during the first nine months of fiscal 2016 , compared with a pre-tax special charge of $9.8 during the first nine months of fiscal 2015 . Fiscal 2016 charges related primarily to actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various SD&A departments. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Operating profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 was $340.1 compared with $264.5 for the prior-year period, an increase of $75.6 , or 28.6% . The increase in operating profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2015 was due primarily to higher gross profit, partially offset by higher costs to support greater sales volume, higher employee-related costs, including incentive compensation, increased amortization expense related to recent acquisitions, and higher special charges. Adjusted operating profit increased by $101.5 , or 34.1% , to $399.1 for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 compared with $297.6 for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 . Adjusted operating profit margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 increased 160 basis points to 16.9% compared with 15.3% in the year-ago period. Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions. Interest expense, net, was $24.2 for the nine months ended May31, 2016 compared with $23.8 for the nine months ended May31, 2015 . The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $1.5 in the first nine months of fiscal 2016 compared with $10.5 in the prior-year period. Net miscellaneous income for the three months ended May31, 2015 included a $10.5 net gain associated with two financial instruments intended to mitigate the foreign currency exposure associated with the Distech Controls Canadian-dollar acquisition. Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 34.5% and 35.5% for the nine months ended May31, 2016 and May31, 2015 , respectively. 31 Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 increased $45.9 to $207.9 from $162.0 reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit partially offset by higher other expense and a higher provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May31, 2016 increased $1.03 to $4.75 compared with diluted earnings per share of $3.72 for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 was $246.5 compared with $177.4 in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $69.1 , or 39.0% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May31, 2016 increased $1.56 , or 38.3% , to $5.63 compared with $4.07 for the prior-year period. Outlook Management believes that the execution of the Company's strategy will provide opportunities for continued profitable growth. The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting product and energy management solutions portfolio combined with its extensive market presence and financial strength. Management will continue to drive the creation of a world-class, cost-efficient supply chain and service capability, while also reducing and/or eliminating resources allocated to specific areas of slower and/or declining growth. Management continues to position the Company to optimize short-term performance while investing in and deploying resources for long-term profitable growth opportunities. In September 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of Distech Controls, a provider of building automation solutions. Distech Controls generated net sales in excess of $80 Canadian dollars during the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015, and achieved a five-year annual growth rate of over 25%. Additionally, the Company acquired Juno Lighting and Geometri in mid-December 2015. Juno Lighting generated revenues of approximately $250 in the trailing 12-month period prior to being acquired by the Company. Geometri, a small yet fast growing business intelligence company, is expected to enhance the Company's growing portfolio of intelligent networked lighting and building automation solutions. Management expects these acquisitions to be accretive to the Company's fiscal 2016 consolidated financial results. During the first nine months of fiscal 2016, the Company recorded a pre-tax special charge of $10.2 for actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment certain responsibilities, primarily within various selling, distribution, and administrative departments. Management expects to realize annual savings equal to at least twice the amount of the charge and to achieve the full annualized run-rate by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Management expects to incur additional costs associated with these and potential future integration and streamlining activities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. The U.K. referendum vote to exit the European Union created a great deal of uncertainty and generated significant volatility in the global financial markets. This uncertainty and volatility have the potential to affect consumer and business sentiment which could negatively impact global economic activity. This notwithstanding, management remains bullish regarding the Company's prospects for continued future profitable growth. Third-party forecasts issued in recent months as well as key leading indicators suggest that the growth rate for the North American lighting market, which includes renovation and retrofit activity and comprises over 97 percent of the Company's revenues, will be in the mid-to-upper single digit range for the remainder of fiscal 2016 with expectations that overall demand in the Company's primary end-markets will continue to experience solid growth over the next several years. The Company's order rates through the month of June reflect this favorable trend. In addition to the projected growth in the Company's primary end-markets, management believes that the Company should benefit from recent acquisitions, further growth from the introduction of new lighting and building automation solutions, and expansion in underpenetrated geographies and channels. From a longer term perspective, management expects that the Company's addressable markets will experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the "Internet of Things" (IoT) through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. Management remains positive about the future prospects of the Company and its ability to outperform the markets it serves. 32 Critical Accounting Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements , which have been prepared in accordance with U.S.GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; accounts receivable; inventory valuation; depreciation, amortization and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based compensation expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; income taxes; retirement benefits; litigation; and environmental matters. Management bases its estimates and judgments on its substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management discusses the development of accounting estimates with the Company's Audit Committee of the Board. There have been no material changes in the Company's critical accounting estimates during the current period. For a detailed discussion of significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, please refer to the Company's Form 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as "expects", "believes", "intends", "anticipates" and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company. In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company's behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company's projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting market growth rate and growth in the Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels and introduce new lighting and building automation solutions; (e) the Company's estimate of its fourth quarter fiscal 2016 tax rate; (f) the Company's estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company's ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; (h) the Company's expectations about the Distech Controls, Juno Lighting, and other acquisitions; and (i) the Company's expectations about the resolution of the trade compliance matter. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this annual report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The Company's forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the Company and management's present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company. Also, additional risks that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, "Item 1a. Risk Factors" of the Company's Form10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.Item 1. Financial Statements ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions, except share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 1 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (In millions, except per-share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 2 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In millions) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 3 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company's lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things ("IoT") and supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. The Company has one reportable segment serving the North American and select international markets. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S.generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S.GAAP") and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company's consolidated financial position as of November30, 2016 , the consolidated comprehensive income for the three months ended November 30, 2016 and November30, 2015 , and the consolidated cash flows for the three months ended November30, 2016 and November30, 2015 . Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Company's annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted. However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the three years ended August31, 2016 and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2016 (File No. 001-16583) ("Form 10-K"). The results of operations for the three months ended November 30, 2016 and November30, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year due primarily to seasonality, which results in the net sales and net income of the Company generally being higher in the second half of its fiscal year, the impact of any acquisitions, and among other reasons, the continued uncertainty of general economic conditions that may impact the key end markets of the Company for the remainder of fiscal 2017 . 2. Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Reclassifications Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. No material reclassifications occurred during the current period. 4 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 3. Acquisitions and Investments The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities for growth through acquisitions and investments. In recent years, the Company has acquired or made investments in a number of businesses that participate in the lighting, building management, and related markets, including the businesses described below. The acquisitions and investments were made with the intent to further expand and complement the Company's lighting and building management solutions portfolio. The purchased companies were fully integrated into the Company's operations. DGLogik, Inc. On June 30, 2016, using cash on hand and treasury stock, the Company acquired DGLogik, Inc. ("DGLogik"), a provider of innovative software solutions that enable and visualize the IoT. DGLogik's solutions provide users with the intelligence to better manage energy usage and improve facility performance. DGLogik is headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, California. Juno Lighting LLC On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $380 million all of the equity interests of Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. At the time of acquisition, Juno Lighting generated annual revenues of approximately $250 million . Geometri LLC On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. Distech Controls Inc. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $240 million all of the outstanding capital stock of Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. At the time of acquisition, Distech Controls generated annual revenues of approximately C$80 million . 4. New Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2017 In April 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Updates ("ASU") No. 2015-05,Customer's Accounting For Fees Paid In A Cloud Computing Arrangement("ASU 2015-05"), which provides guidance for a customer's accounting for cloud computing costs. ASU 2015-05 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2015. The provisions of ASU 2015-05 did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Accounting Standards Yet to Be Adopted In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, ("ASU 2016-09"), which will change certain aspects of accounting for share-based payments to employees. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The standard requires that all excess tax benefits and deficiencies currently recorded as additional paid in capital be prospectively recorded in income tax expense. As such, implementation of this standard could create volatility in the Company's effective income tax rate on a quarter by quarter basis. The volatility in the effective income tax rate is due primarily to fluctuations in the Company's stock price and the timing of stock option exercises and vesting of restricted share grants. The standard also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows rather than as a financing activity. This element of the guidance may be applied retrospectively or prospectively. The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2018. 5 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02,Leases ("ASU 2016-02"), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16,Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments("ASU 2015-16"), which simplifies the accounting for measurement-period adjustments to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. ASU 2015-16 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The provisions of ASU 2015-16 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09,Revenue From Contracts With Customers("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017. ASU 2014-09 permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2014-09. All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable. 5. Fair Value Measurements The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC820"), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i)unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level1), (ii)quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level2), and (iii)prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level3). The Company's cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $451.2 million and $413.2 million as of November30, 2016 and August31, 2016 , respectively. The Company utilizes valuation methodologies to determine the fair values of its financial assets and liabilities in conformity with the concepts of "exit price" and the fair value hierarchy as prescribed in ASC820. All valuation methods and assumptions are validated at least quarterly to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the fair values. There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period. The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities. No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period. In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence. Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASCTopic 825, Financial Instruments ("ASC825"). In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. 6 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The carrying values and estimated fair values of certain of the Company's financial instruments were as follows at November30, 2016 and August31, 2016 (in millions): Investment in noncontrolling affiliate represents a strategic investment accounted for using the cost method. The Company based the fair value of the investment as of August31, 2016 on an offer by a third party to purchase the business (Level 3). The Company sold the investment during October 2016, resulting in the recognition of a gain of $7.2 million , which is reflected in Miscellaneous income, net on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income . The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of November30, 2016 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). The bank loans are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). ASC 825 excludes certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements. Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value to the Company. In many cases, the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, nor can the disclosed value be realized in immediate settlement of the instruments. In evaluating the Company's management of liquidity and other risks, the fair values of all assets and liabilities should be taken into consideration, not only those presented above. 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Through multiple acquisitions, the Company acquired intangible assets consisting primarily of trademarks and trade names associated with specific products with finite lives, definite-lived distribution networks, patented technology, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely. The Company recorded amortization expense of $5.9 million and $5.0 million during the three months ended November30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $23.2 million in fiscal 2017 , $23.2 million in fiscal 2018 , $23.2 million in fiscal 2019 , $22.7 million in fiscal 2020 , and $22.6 million in fiscal 2021 . Amortization expense recorded by the Company, as well as expected amortization expense, include a preliminary estimate related to intangibles acquired with Geometri and Juno Lighting. These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible assets acquired. Refer to the Acquisitions & Investments footnote for additional information regarding the preliminary purchase price allocation. 7 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The change in the carrying amount of goodwill during the three months ended November30, 2016 is summarized below (in millions): Further discussion of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 7. Inventories Inventories include materials, labor, in-bound freight, and related manufacturing overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out or average cost basis) or market, and consist of the following (in millions): _______________________________________ (1) Due to the immaterial amount of estimated work in process and the short lead times for the conversion of raw materials to finished goods, the Company does not believe the segregation of raw materials and work in process to be meaningful information. 8. Earnings Per Share Prior to fiscal 2017, basic earnings per share was computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, which was modified to include the effects of all participating securities during the period, as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share ("ASC 260"). Participating securities included unvested share-based payment awards with a right to receive nonforfeitable dividends. The equity plan approved by stockholders in January 2013 changed the dividend provisions, causing share-based payment awards to lose the right to receive nonforfeitable dividends. Due to this change, any shares granted after January 2013 were not participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 and were accounted for in the diluted earnings per share calculation described below. As of November30, 2016 , the impact of participating securities was not material. Therefore, basic earnings per share for the three months ended November 30, 2016 is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, all unvested share-based payment awards were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred. Stock options of approximately 81,487 and 28,133 were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the three months ended November 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, as the effect of inclusion would have been antidilutive. Restricted stock shares of 25,994 and 45,555 were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the three months ended November 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, as the effect of inclusion would have been antidilutive. Further discussion of the Company's stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-Based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 8 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The following table calculates basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended November 30, 2016 and 2015 (in millions, except per share data): 9.Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive income represents a measure of all changes in equity that result from recognized transactions and other economic events other than transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Other comprehensive income (loss) for the Company includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments. The following table presents the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (in millions): The following tables present the tax expense or benefit allocated to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) for the three months ended November30, 2016 and 2015 (in millions): _______________________________________ (1) These accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) components are included in net periodic pension cost. See Pension and Profit Sharing Plans footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 9 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 10. Debt Lines of Credit On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a $250.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). The Revolving Credit Facility will mature, and all amounts outstanding will be due and payable, on August27, 2019 . The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio ("Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio") and a leverage ratio ("Maximum Leverage Ratio") of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense ("EBITDA"), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50 , subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement. As of November30, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. At November30, 2016 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $243.9 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of November30, 2016 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.0 million , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the casualty insurance programs for Acuity Brands and for providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $6.1 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. Generally, amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a Eurocurrency Rate. Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S. Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") for the applicable currency plus a margin as determined by the Company's leverage ratio ("Applicable Margin"). The Applicable Margin is based on the Company's leverage ratio, as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.575% . The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Revolving Credit Facility, including administrative service fees and an annual facility fee. The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company's leverage ratio as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility. This facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.300% of the aggregate $250.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility. Long-term Debt At November30, 2016 , the Company had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the "Notes") and $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021 . The Company also had $3.2 million outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans. Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings partially offset by interest income on cash and cash equivalents. The following table summarizes the components of interest expense, net (in millions): 10 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 11. Commitments and Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to the effects of certain contractual stipulations, events, transactions, and laws and regulations that may, at times, require the recognition of liabilities, such as those related to self-insurance reserves and claims, legal and contractual issues, environmental laws and regulations, guarantees, and indemnities. The Company establishes reserves when the associated costs related to uncertainties or guarantees become probable and can be reasonably estimated. For the period ended November30, 2016 , no material changes have occurred in the Company's reserves for self-insurance, litigation, environmental matters, guarantees and indemnities, or relevant events and circumstances, from those disclosed in the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's fiscal 2016 Annual Report (Form 10-K). Trade Compliance Matters Prior to the close of the acquisition, Distech Controls discovered shipments by it and its subsidiaries during the past five years of standard commercial building control products directly or indirectly to customers in a country that may constitute violations of U.S. and Canadian sanctions or export regulations, including those administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control ("OFAC") and the Export Controls Division ofthe Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development ("DFATD"). Distech Controls estimates that it received total revenue of approximately $0.3 million from these shipments. Distech Controls has voluntarily self-reported the potential violations to OFAC and DFATD and retained outside counsel that conducted an investigation of the matter and filed a full voluntary disclosure with these agencies. The Company has assessed the matter and implemented related ongoing compliance and remediation efforts. The Company intends to fully cooperate with respect to any investigations by governmental agencies of the potential violations. The former shareholders of Distech Controls have jointly agreed to indemnify the Company for damages, if any, as a result of, in respect of, connected with or arising out of the potential violations or any inaccuracy or breach of the representations made by Distech Controls to the Company related thereto, up to a specified aggregate amount, which is not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements. These indemnity obligations are supported by an escrow account containing proceeds from the transaction equal to the specified aggregate amount. The Company currently believes that this indemnity will be sufficient to cover any damages related to the potential violations and the costs and expenses related to the investigation thereof and any related remedial actions. The Company therefore does not expect this matter to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, cash flow, or results of operations of the Company. There can be no assurance, however, that actual damages, costs and expenses will not be in excess of the indemnity or that the Company and its affiliates will not be subject to other damages, including but not limited to damage to the Company's reputation or monetary or non-monetary penalties as permitted under applicable trade laws, that may not be fully covered by the indemnity. Estimated liabilities for legal fees as well as potential fines or penalties related to this matter are included in Other accrued liabilities within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company discovered through a review of shipment activity that it may have misclassified certain shipments of component parts to its manufacturing facilities under applicable import/export regulations. Although no claim has been asserted against the Company, the Company is reviewing these shipments to determine the extent of any liabilities and the extent of available remedial measures. The Company is unable at this time to determine the likelihood or amount of any loss associated with the misclassification of these shipments. Product Warranty and Recall Costs Acuity Brands records an allowance for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized. Estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting repair or return of that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. Estimated future warranty and recall costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty and recall claims. However, there can be no assurance that future warranty or recall costs will not exceed historical amounts or that new technology products, which may include extended warranties, may not generate unexpected costs. If actual future warranty or recall costs exceed historical amounts, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. 11 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) Reserves for product warranty and recall costs are included in Other accrued liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The changes in the reserves for product warranty and recall costs during the three months ended November30, 2016 and 2015 are summarized as follows (in millions): Litigation The Company is subject to various legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including patent infringement, employment matters, and product liability claims. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company in future periods. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when associated costs become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims. However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved. 12. Share-Based Payments The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan. The Company recorded $7.9 million and $6.4 million of share-based payment expense for the three months ended November 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. New shares issued upon exercise of stock options were 12,030 and 117,289 for the three months ended November 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-Based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 13.Pension Plans The Company has several pension plans, both qualified and non-qualified, covering certain hourly and salaried employees. Benefits paid under these plans are based generally on employees' years of service and/or compensation during the final years of employment. Plan assets are invested primarily in equity and fixed income securities. 12 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) Net periodic pension cost for the Company's defined benefit pension plans during the three months ended November 30, 2016 and 2015 included the following components before tax (in millions): Further details regarding the Company's pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 14. Special Charge During fiscal 2017 and 2016 , the Company recorded a pre-tax special charge for actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various selling, distribution, and administrative departments. The Company expects that these actions to streamline its business activities, in addition to those taken in previous fiscal years, will allow it to reduce spending in certain areas while permitting continued investment in future growth initiatives, such as new products, expanded market presence, and technology and innovation. The details of the special charge during the three months ended November 30, 2016 and 2015 are summarized as follows (in millions): As of November30, 2016 , remaining restructuring reserves were $4.7 million and are included in Accrued compensation and Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . The changes in the reserves related to these programs during the three months ended November 30, 2016 are summarized as follows (in millions): 13 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 15. Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of the Company, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Notes. See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K for further information. In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Notes and the initial purchasers of the Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms. Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, the Company determined the need for compliance with Rule3-10 of SEC RegulationS-X ("Rule3-10"). In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule3-10(d) of SEC RegulationS-X since the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding. The column marked "Parent" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands. The column marked "Subsidiary Issuer" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL. The column entitled "Subsidiary Guarantor" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding. Lastly, the column listed as "Non-Guarantors" includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries. Eliminations were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts. In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting. 14 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS (In millions) 15 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS (In millions) 16 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 17 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 18 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In millions) 19 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In millions) 20 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") and its subsidiaries as of November30, 2016 and for the three months ended November 30, 2016 and 2015 . For a more complete understanding of this discussion, please read the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Also, please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August31, 2016 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2016 ("Form 10-K"). The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included within this report. Overview Company Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company has its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia. The Company is one of the world's leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company's lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things ("IoT") and supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. As of November30, 2016 , the Company operates nineteen manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with one warehouse to serve its extensive customer base. The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions, including the following transactions: On June 30, 2016, using cash on hand and common stock, the Company acquired DGLogik, Inc. ("DGLogik"), a provider of innovative software solutions that enable and visualize the IoT. DGLogik's solutions provide users with the intelligence to better manage energy usage and improve facility performance. DGLogik is headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, California. On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. Please refer to the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements. Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements, and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months. Short-term needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on 21 borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding potential acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board of Directors (the "Board"). Approximately two million shares of the Company's common stock are currently authorized and available for repurchase under an existing repurchase program. The Company expects to repurchase these shares on an opportunistic basis. The Company currently expects to invest approximately two and a half percent of net sales during fiscal 2017 , of which $19.5 million had been invested as of November30, 2016 , primarily for equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements, as well as for new and enhanced information technology capabilities. Additionally, management believes that the Company's cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company. Cash Flow The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations and capital expenditures, repurchase common stock of the Company, fund acquisitions, and pay dividends. The Company's cash position at November30, 2016 was $451.2 million , an increase of $38.0 million from August31, 2016 . During the three months ended November 30, 2016 , the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $38.7 million and received proceeds from the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate of $13.0 million . Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the current period primarily to fund capital expenditures of $19.5 million as well as to pay dividends to stockholders of $5.8 million . The Company generated $38.7 million of cash flow from operating activities during the three months ended November30, 2016 compared with $51.1 million in the prior-year period, a decrease of $12.4 million , due primarily to higher operating working capital requirements and increased variable incentive compensation payments partially offset by higher net income. Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) remained relatively flat during the first three months of fiscal 2017 compared to a decrease of $9.6 million during the first three months of fiscal 2016 . Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. The Company invested $19.5 million and $23.1 million in the first three months of fiscal 2017 and 2016 , respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology. As noted above, the Company expects to invest approximately two and a half percent of net sales primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities during fiscal 2017 . Capitalization The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders. As of November30, 2016 , total debt outstanding was $356.0 million , compared with $355.2 million at August31, 2016 , and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. During fiscal 2017 , the Company borrowed $0.9 million under recently-executed fixed-rate long-term bank loans. On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a Revolving Credit Facility ("Revolving Credit Facility") with a borrowing capacity of $250.0 million . The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable on August 27, 2019. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility as of November30, 2016 . At November30, 2016 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $243.9 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of November30, 2016 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.0 million , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the casualty insurance programs for Acuity Brands and providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $6.1 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . During the first three months of fiscal 2017 , the Company's consolidated stockholders' equity increased $70.3 million to $1.73 billion at November30, 2016 , from $1.66 billion at August31, 2016 . The increase was due primarily to net income earned in the period, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options and the related excess tax benefits, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses partially offset by dividend payments and foreign currency translation adjustments. The Company's debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders' equity) was 17.1% and 17.6% at November30, 2016 and August31, 2016 , respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was (5.8)% at November30, 2016 and (3.6)% at August31, 2016 . 22 Dividends Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $5.8 million and $5.7 million ( $0.13 per share) during the three months ended November30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends by Acuity Brands are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of the Company's financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant. Results of Operations First Quarter of Fiscal 2017 Compared with First Quarter of Fiscal 2016 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the three months ended November30, 2016 and 2015 (in millions except per share data): Net sales were $851.2 million for the three months ended November30, 2016 compared with $736.6 million reported for the three months ended November30, 2015 , an increase of $114.6 million , or 15.6% . For the three months ended November30, 2016 , the Company reported net income of $81.7 million , an increase of $13.3 million , or 19.4% , compared with $68.4 million for the three months ended November30, 2015 . For the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , diluted earnings per share increased 18.5% to $1.86 compared with $1.57 reported in the year-ago period. The following table reconciles certain U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization, manufacturing inefficiencies, and the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. Although special charges, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and share-based payment expense have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, management typically excludes these charges during internal reviews of performance and uses these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. Primarily due to the impact of the four acquisitions completed during fiscal 2016, the Company experienced noticeable increases in amortization of acquired intangibles, share-based payments used to improve retention and align the interest of key leaders of acquired businesses, and special charges due to activities to streamline and integrate those acquisitions. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted 23 selling, distribution, and administrative ("SD&A") expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted other expense (income), adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Company's current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Amounts in the following table are shown in millions except per share data. ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory and professional fees. (2) Incremental costs incurred due to manufacturing inefficiencies directly related to the closure of a facility. 24 Net Sales Net sales for the three months ended November30, 2016 increased 15.6% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to a 10% increase in sales volume and an approximately 9% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in product prices and the mix of products sold ("price/mix") of approximately 2% and an unfavorable change in foreign currency rates of approximately 1% . Sales volume was higher across most product categories and key sales channels. Sales of LED-based products during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 represented approximately two-thirds of total net sales. The change in price/mix was due primarily to changes in the mix of products sold and, to a lesser degree, lower pricing on certain LED luminaires, reflecting the decline in certain LED component costs. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 increased $40.2 million , or 12.6% , to $359.6 million compared with $319.4 million in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased 120 basis points to 42.2% for the three months ended November30, 2016 compared with 43.4% in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period due primarily to increased manufacturing expenses and higher quality costs, partially offset by the additional contribution on higher net sales. Additionally, unfavorable price/mix was offset by lower material and component costs. Adjusted gross profit for the three months ended November30, 2016 was $361.2 million ( 42.4% of net sales) compared with $320.0 million ( 43.4% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit SD&A expenses for the three months ended November30, 2016 were $231.8 million compared with $206.6 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $25.2 million , or 12.2% . The increase in SD&A expenses was due primarily to higher costs to support the greater sales volume, including freight and commissions, investment in additional headcount, the additional costs associated with acquired businesses, and increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense. SD&A expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 were 27.2% of net sales compared with 28.0% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the three months ended November30, 2016 were $218.0 million ( 25.6% of net sales) compared with $194.1 million ( 26.4% of net sales) in the prior-year period. The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $1.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared with $0.4 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . These charges related primarily to previously announced actions to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various SD&A departments. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Operating profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was $126.6 million ( 14.9% of net sales) compared with $112.4 million ( 15.3% of net sales) for the prior-year period, an increase of $14.2 million , or 12.6% . The increase in operating profit was due primarily to an increase in sales volume, lower material and component costs, and lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher SD&A costs to support the greater sales volume, investment in additional headcount, increased amortization expense related to recent acquisitions, and higher special charges. Adjusted operating profit increased by $17.3 million , or 13.7% , to $143.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with $125.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . Adjusted operating profit margin decreased 30 basis points to 16.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with 17.1% for the year-ago period. Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income/expense, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $8.2 million and $7.9 million for the three months ended November30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $7.9 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended November30, 2016 and November30, 2015 , respectively. Net miscellaneous income for the three months ended November 30, 2016 included a $7.2 million gain associated with the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. 25 Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 35.3% and 35.0% for the three months ended November30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The Company estimates that the effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 will be approximately 35.5% before any discrete items and if the rates in its taxing jurisdictions remain generally consistent throughout the year. Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 increased $13.3 million to $81.7 million from $68.4 million reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit and lower other net expense, partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November30, 2016 increased $0.29 to $1.86 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.57 for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was $87.8 million compared with $77.4 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $10.4 million , or 13.4% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November30, 2016 increased $0.23 , or 13.0% , to $2.00 compared with $1.77 for the prior-year period. Outlook Management believes that the execution of the Company's strategy will provide opportunities for continued profitable growth. The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio combined with its extensive market presence and financial strength. Management will continue to drive the creation of a world-class, cost-efficient supply chain and service capability, while also reducing and/or eliminating resources allocated to specific areas of slower and/or declining growth. Management continues to position the Company to optimize short-term performance while investing in and deploying resources for long-term profitable growth opportunities. Management believes the softness in demand over the last quarter or so was due to temporary circumstances that for the most part have passed; however, some softness could linger into the second quarter. The Company's December order activity continues to reflect growth albeit at a slower pace than experienced over the previous several quarters. Similar to prior years, the second fiscal quarter, typically the Company's weakest quarter, is expected to once again be influenced by normal seasonality and the potential for year-end inventory rebalancing by certain customers. Long-term fundamental drivers of the markets the Company serves appear to be intact and positive, while independent third-party forecasts and leading indicators continue to suggest positive growth rates for the Company's fiscal 2017. Therefore, management has not meaningfully changed its previous expectations that the fiscal 2017 growth rate for lighting and building management solutions in the North American market, which includes renovation and retrofit activity and comprises approximately 97% of the Company's revenues, will be in the mid-to-upper single digit range. Additionally, management believes that overall demand in the Company's end markets will continue to experience solid growth over the next several years, and remain bullish regarding the Company's prospects for continued future profitable growth. Management continues to target an annual variable contribution margin on an incremental dollar of sales in the mid-to-upper 20% range over the course of a full year knowing that it is not possible to predict with precision what the rate will be by quarter. Management expects to continue to outperform the growth rates of the markets the Company serves by executing strategies focused on growth opportunities for new construction and renovation projects, expansion into underpenetrated geographies and channels, and growth from the continued introduction of new lighting and building management solutions as part of an integrated, tiered solutions strategy. Recent changes in the U.S. political landscape have produced a great amount of rhetoric and debate regarding a wide range of policy options with respect to monetary, regulatory, tax, and trade, amongst others, that may be pursued by the new administration. Any policy changes implemented may have a positive or negative consequence on the Company's financial performance depending on how the changes would influence many factors, including business and consumer sentiment. While management is proactively identifying and evaluating potential contingency options under various certain policy scenarios, it is too early to comment or speculate at this time on the potential ramification of these endless scenarios. From a longer term perspective, management expects that the Company's addressable markets will experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the IoT through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. Management remains positive about the future prospects of the Company and its ability to outperform the markets it serves. 26 Critical Accounting Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements , which have been prepared in accordance with U.S.GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; accounts receivable; inventory valuation; depreciation, amortization and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based payment expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; income taxes; retirement benefits; litigation; and environmental matters. Management bases its estimates and judgments on its substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management discusses the development of accounting estimates with the Company's Audit Committee of the Board. There have been no material changes in the Company's critical accounting estimates during the current period. For a detailed discussion of significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, please refer to the Company's Form 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as "expects," "believes," "intends," "anticipates," and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company. In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company's behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company's projections regarding financial performance (including, but not limited to, targeted variable contribution margin), liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of softness in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building automation solutions market growth rate and growth in the Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) the Company's estimate of its fiscal 2017 tax rate; (f) the Company's estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company's ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; and (h) the Company's expectations about the resolution of the trade compliance matter. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this annual report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The Company's forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the Company and management's present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company. Also, additional risks that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, "Item 1a. Risk Factors" of the Company's Form10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.Item 1. Financial Statements ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions, except share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 1 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (In millions, except per-share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 2 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In millions) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 3 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company's lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things ("IoT") and supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. The Company has one reportable segment serving the North American and select international markets. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S.generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S.GAAP") and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company's consolidated financial position as of February28, 2017 , the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 , and the consolidated cash flows for the six months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 . Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Company's annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted. However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the three years ended August31, 2016 and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2016 (File No. 001-16583) ("Form 10-K"). The results of operations for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year due primarily to seasonality, which results in the net sales and net income of the Company generally being higher in the second half of its fiscal year, the impact of any acquisitions, and, among other reasons, the continued uncertainty of general economic conditions that may impact the key end markets of the Company for the remainder of fiscal 2017 . 2. Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Reclassifications Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. No material reclassifications occurred during the current period. 4 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 3. Acquisitions and Investments The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities for growth through acquisitions and investments. In recent years, the Company has acquired or made investments in a number of businesses that participate in the lighting, building management, and related markets, including the businesses described below. The acquisitions and investments were made with the intent to further expand and complement the Company's lighting and building management solutions portfolio. The purchased companies were fully integrated into the Company's operations. DGLogik, Inc. On June 30, 2016, using cash on hand and treasury stock, the Company acquired DGLogik, Inc. ("DGLogik"), a provider of innovative software solutions that enable and visualize the IoT. DGLogik's solutions provide users with the intelligence to better manage energy usage and improve facility performance. DGLogik is headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, California. The operating results of DGLogik have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Preliminary amounts related to the acquisition are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets . These amounts are deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of intangible and other acquired assets and liabilities. Juno Lighting LLC On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $380 million all of the equity interests of Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. At the time of acquisition, Juno Lighting generated annual revenues of approximately $250 million . The operating results of Juno Lighting have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date related to the Juno Lighting acquisition have been adjusted to reflect the finalization of the valuation of customer relationships and certain accrued liabilities. These adjustments resulted in an increase to intangible assets, net of $81.1 million , a decrease to goodwill of $50.5 million , an increase to deferred income tax liabilities of $29.6 million , and a decrease to net operating working capital of $1.0 million as of February28, 2017 . The fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed were finalized and reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets prospectively as of February28, 2017 . Geometri LLC On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. The operating results of Geometri have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. The Company finalized the acquisition accounting for Geometri during fiscal 2017, and the amounts are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . There were no material changes to the Company's financial statements as a result of the finalization of the acquisition accounting. Distech Controls Inc. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $240 million all of the outstanding capital stock of Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. At the time of acquisition, Distech Controls generated annual revenues of approximately $60 million . The Company finalized the acquisition accounting for Distech Controls during fiscal 2016, and the amounts are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . There were no material changes to the Company's financial statements as a result of the finalization of the acquisition accounting. 5 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 4. New Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2017 In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2017-0 4, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment ("ASU 2017-04"). This guidance eliminates the requirement to determine the implied fair value of goodwill to measure an impairment of goodwill. Rather, goodwill impairment charges will be calculated as the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Adoption of the provisions in ASU 2017-04 is required for the Company for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company has adopted ASU 2017-04 effective beginning in the current period. The provisions of ASU 2017-04 did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments ("ASU 2015-16"), which simplifies the accounting for measurement-period adjustments to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. ASU 2015-16 eliminates the requirement to retrospectively account for adjustments made to provisional amounts recorded in connection with a business combination and is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2015. The Company has adopted ASU 2017-04 this fiscal year and has presented all adjustments to provisional amounts recorded in connection within a business combination in fiscal 2017 prospectively. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, Customer's Accounting For Fees Paid In A Cloud Computing Arrangement ("ASU 2015-05"), which provides guidance for a customer's accounting for cloud computing costs. ASU 2015-05 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2015. The provisions of ASU 2015-05 did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Accounting Standards Yet to Be Adopted In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-05, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost ("ASU 2017-05"), which will change the presentation of net periodic benefit cost related to employer sponsored defined benefit plans and other postretirement benefits. Service cost will be included within the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, while other components of net periodic benefit pension cost will be presented separately outside of operating income. Additionally, only service costs may be capitalized in assets. ASU 2017-05 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017. The provisions of ASU 2017-05 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business ("ASU 2017-01"), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business. The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs. The Company is required to apply this guidance to annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting , ("ASU 2016-09"), which will change certain aspects of accounting for share-based payments to employees. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The standard requires that all excess tax benefits and deficiencies currently recorded as additional paid-in capital be prospectively recorded in income tax expense. As such, implementation of this standard could create volatility in the Company's effective income tax rate on a quarter by quarter basis. The volatility in the effective income tax rate is due primarily to fluctuations in the Company's stock price and the timing of stock option exercises and vesting of restricted share grants. The standard also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows rather than as a financing activity. This element of the guidance may be applied retrospectively or prospectively. The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2018. 6 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2020. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASU 2014-09"), which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. ASU 2014-09 allows for both retrospective and prospective methods of adoption. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , which clarifies the guidance in ASU 2014-09 and has the same effective date as the original standard. During the three months ended July 1, 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing; ASU 2016-11, Rescission of SEC Guidance Because of Accounting Standards Updates 2014-09 and 2014-16 Pursuant to Staff Announcements at the March 3, 2016 EITF Meeting; and ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients. These amendments are intended to improve and clarify the implementation guidance of ASU 2014-09 and have the same effective date as the original standard. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of these standards will have on our consolidated financial statements. All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable. 5. Fair Value Measurements The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC820"), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i)unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level1), (ii)quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level2), and (iii)prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level3). The Company's cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $463.2 million and $413.2 million as of February28, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. The Company utilizes valuation methodologies to determine the fair values of its financial assets and liabilities in conformity with the concepts of "exit price" and the fair value hierarchy as prescribed in ASC820. All valuation methods and assumptions are validated at least quarterly to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the fair values. There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period. The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities. No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period. In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence. Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASCTopic 825, Financial Instruments ("ASC825"). In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. 7 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The carrying values and estimated fair values of certain of the Company's financial instruments were as follows at February28, 2017 and August31, 2016 (in millions): Investment in noncontrolling affiliate represents a strategic investment accounted for using the cost method. The Company based the fair value of the investment as of August31, 2016 on an offer by a third party to purchase the business (Level 3). The Company sold the investment during October 2016, resulting in the recognition of a gain of $7.2 million , which is reflected in Miscellaneous income, net on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income . The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of February28, 2017 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). The bank loans are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). ASC 825 excludes certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements. Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value to the Company. In many cases, the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, nor can the disclosed value be realized in immediate settlement of the instruments. In evaluating the Company's management of liquidity and other risks, the fair values of all assets and liabilities should be taken into consideration, not only those presented above. 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Through multiple acquisitions, the Company acquired intangible assets consisting primarily of trademarks and trade names associated with specific products with finite lives, definite-lived distribution networks, patented technology, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely. The Company recorded amortization expense of $7.8 million and $6.0 million during the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively, and $13.7 million and $11.0 million during the six months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 , respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $26.1 million in fiscal 2017 , $25.1 million in fiscal 2018 , $25.1 million in fiscal 2019 , $24.7 million in fiscal 2020 , and $24.6 million in fiscal 2021 . During the current quarter, the Company finalized the purchase accounting allocation for Juno Lighting. As a result, the Company recorded $1.9 million of additional amortization expense to reflect the amortization that would have been recognized in previous periods if the adjustment to intangibles was recognized as of the acquisition date. Additionally, amortization expense recorded by the Company, as well as expected amortization expense, include a preliminary estimate related to intangibles acquired with DGLogik. This amount is deemed to be provisional until disclosed otherwise, as the Company continues to gather information related to the identification and valuation of 8 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) intangible assets acquired. Refer to the Acquisitions & Investments footnote for additional information regarding the preliminary purchase price allocations for these acquisitions. The change in the carrying amount of goodwill during the six months ended February28, 2017 is summarized below (in millions): Further discussion of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 7. Inventories Inventories include materials, labor, in-bound freight, and related manufacturing overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out or average cost basis) or market, and consist of the following (in millions): _______________________________________ (1) Due to the immaterial amount of estimated work in process and the short lead times for the conversion of raw materials to finished goods, the Company does not believe the segregation of raw materials and work in process to be meaningful information. 8. Earnings Per Share Prior to fiscal 2017, basic earnings per share was computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, which was modified to include the effects of all participating securities during the period, as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share ("ASC 260"). Participating securities included unvested share-based payment awards with a right to receive nonforfeitable dividends. The equity plan approved by stockholders in January 2013 changed the dividend provisions, causing share-based payment awards to lose the right to receive nonforfeitable dividends. Due to this change, any shares granted after January 2013 were not participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 and were accounted for in the diluted earnings per share calculation described below. The impact of participating securities was not material for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 . Therefore, basic earnings per share for these periods is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, all unvested share-based payment awards were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred. 9 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The following table calculates basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 (in millions, except per share data): The following table presents stock options and restricted stock awards that were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 as the effect of inclusion would have been antidilutive: Further discussion of the Company's stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-Based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 9.Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income represents a measure of all changes in equity that result from recognized transactions and other economic events other than transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Other comprehensive income (loss) for the Company includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments. The following table presents the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) during the six months ended February 28, 2017 (in millions): 10 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The following tables present the tax expense or benefit allocated to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 (in millions): _______________________________________ (1) These accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) components are included in net periodic pension cost. See Pension and Profit Sharing Plans footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 10. Debt Lines of Credit On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a $250.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). The Revolving Credit Facility will mature, and all amounts outstanding will be due and payable, on August27, 2019 . The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio ("Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio") and a leverage ratio ("Maximum Leverage Ratio") of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense ("EBITDA"), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50 , subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement. As of February28, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. At February28, 2017 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $243.9 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of February28, 2017 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.0 million , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the casualty insurance programs for Acuity Brands and for providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $6.1 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. Generally, amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a Eurocurrency Rate. Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S. Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") for the applicable 11 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) currency plus a margin as determined by the Company's leverage ratio ("Applicable Margin"). The Applicable Margin is based on the Company's leverage ratio, as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.575% . The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Revolving Credit Facility, including administrative service fees and an annual facility fee. The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company's leverage ratio as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility. This facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.300% of the aggregate $250.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility. Long-term Debt At February28, 2017 , the Company had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the "Notes") and $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021 . The Company also had $3.2 million outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans. Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings partially offset by interest income on cash and cash equivalents. The following table summarizes the components of interest expense, net for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 (in millions): 11. Commitments and Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to the effects of certain contractual stipulations, events, transactions, and laws and regulations that may, at times, require the recognition of liabilities, such as those related to self-insurance reserves and claims, legal and contractual issues, environmental laws and regulations, guarantees, and indemnities. The Company establishes reserves when the associated costs related to uncertainties or guarantees become probable and can be reasonably estimated. For the period ended February28, 2017 , no material changes have occurred in the Company's reserves for self-insurance, litigation, environmental matters, guarantees and indemnities, or relevant events and circumstances, from those disclosed in the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Trade Compliance Matters Prior to the close of the acquisition, Distech Controls discovered shipments by it and its subsidiaries during the past five years of standard commercial building control products directly or indirectly to customers in a country that may constitute violations of U.S. and Canadian sanctions or export regulations, including those administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control ("OFAC") and the Export Controls Division ofthe Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development ("DFATD"). Distech Controls estimates that it received total revenue of approximately $0.3 million from these shipments. Distech Controls has voluntarily self-reported the potential violations to OFAC and DFATD and retained outside counsel that conducted an investigation of the matter and filed a full voluntary disclosure with these agencies. The Company has assessed the matter and implemented related ongoing compliance and remediation efforts. The Company intends to fully cooperate with respect to any investigations by governmental agencies of the potential violations. The former shareholders of Distech Controls have jointly agreed to indemnify the Company for 12 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) damages, if any, as a result of, in respect of, connected with or arising out of the potential violations or any inaccuracy or breach of the representations made by Distech Controls to the Company related thereto, up to a specified aggregate amount, which is not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements. These indemnity obligations are supported by an escrow account containing proceeds from the transaction equal to the specified aggregate amount. The Company currently believes that this indemnity will be sufficient to cover any damages related to the potential violations and the costs and expenses related to the investigation thereof and any related remedial actions. The Company therefore does not expect this matter to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, cash flow, or results of operations of the Company. There can be no assurance, however, that actual damages, costs and expenses will not be in excess of the indemnity or that the Company and its affiliates will not be subject to other damages, including but not limited to damage to the Company's reputation or monetary or non-monetary penalties as permitted under applicable trade laws, that may not be fully covered by the indemnity. Estimated liabilities for legal fees as well as potential fines or penalties related to this matter are included in Other accrued liabilities within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, through a review of shipment activity at other subsidiaries, the Company discovered that it may have misclassified certain shipments of component parts to its manufacturing facilities under applicable import/export regulations. Although no claim has been asserted against the Company, the Company is reviewing these shipments to determine the extent of any liabilities and the extent of available remedial measures. The Company is unable at this time to determine the likelihood or amount of any loss associated with the misclassification of these shipments. Product Warranty and Recall Costs Acuity Brands records an allowance for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized. Estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting repair or return of that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. Estimated future warranty and recall costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty and recall claims. However, there can be no assurance that future warranty or recall costs will not exceed historical amounts or that new technology products, which may include extended warranties, may not generate unexpected costs. If actual future warranty or recall costs exceed historical amounts, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. Reserves for product warranty and recall costs are included in Other accrued liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The changes in the reserves for product warranty and recall costs during the six months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 are summarized as follows (in millions): Litigation The Company is subject to various legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including patent infringement, employment matters, and product liability claims. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company in future periods. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when associated costs become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims. However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved. 13 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 12. Share-based Payments The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan. The following table presents share-based payment expense and new shares issued upon exercise of stock options for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 (in millions, except shares): Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-Based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 13.Pension Plans The Company has several pension plans, both qualified and non-qualified, covering certain hourly and salaried employees. Benefits paid under these plans are based generally on employees' years of service and/or compensation during the final years of employment. Plan assets are invested primarily in equity and fixed income securities. Net periodic pension cost for the Company's defined benefit pension plans during the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 included the following components before tax (in millions): Further details regarding the Company's pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 14 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 14. Special Charge During fiscal 2017 and 2016 , the Company recorded pre-tax special charges for actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various selling, distribution, and administrative departments. The Company expects that these actions to streamline its business activities, in addition to those taken in previous fiscal years, will allow it to reduce spending in certain areas while permitting continued investment in future growth initiatives, such as new products, expanded market presence, and technology and innovation. The details of the special charge during the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 are summarized as follows (in millions): As of February28, 2017 , remaining restructuring reserves were $3.3 million and are included in Accrued compensation and Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . The changes in the reserves related to these programs during the six months ended February 28, 2017 are summarized as follows (in millions): 15 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 15. Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of the Company, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Notes. See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K for further information. In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Notes and the initial purchasers of the Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms. Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, the Company determined the need for compliance with Rule3-10 of SEC RegulationS-X ("Rule3-10"). In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule3-10(d) of SEC RegulationS-X since the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding. The column marked "Parent" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands. The column marked "Subsidiary Issuer" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL. The column entitled "Subsidiary Guarantor" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding. Lastly, the column listed as "Non-Guarantors" includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries. Eliminations were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts. In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting. 16 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS (In millions) 17 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS (In millions) 18 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 19 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 20 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 21 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 22 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In millions) 23 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In millions) 24 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") and its subsidiaries as of February28, 2017 and for the three and six months ended February 28, 2017 and February29, 2016 . For a more complete understanding of this discussion, please read the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Also, please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August31, 2016 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2016 ("Form 10-K"). The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included within this report. Overview Company Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company has its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia. The Company is one of the world's leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company's lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things ("IoT") and supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. As of February28, 2017 , the Company operates nineteen manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with one warehouse to serve its extensive customer base. The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions, including the following transactions: On June 30, 2016, using cash on hand and treasury stock, the Company acquired DGLogik, Inc. ("DGLogik"), a provider of innovative software solutions that enable and visualize the IoT. DGLogik's solutions provide users with the intelligence to better manage energy usage and improve facility performance. DGLogik is headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, California. On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. Please refer to the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements. Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements, and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months. The Company's short-term needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on 25 borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding potential acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board of Directors (the "Board"). Approximately two million shares of the Company's common stock are currently authorized and available for repurchase under an existing repurchase program. The Company expects to repurchase these shares on an opportunistic basis. The Company currently expects capital spending to be between approximately two and two and a half percent of sales during fiscal 2017 , of which $35.8 million had been invested as of February28, 2017 , primarily for equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements, as well as for new and enhanced information technology capabilities. Additionally, management believes that the Company's cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company. Cash Flow The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations and capital expenditures, repurchase common stock of the Company, fund acquisitions, and pay dividends. The Company's cash position at February28, 2017 was $463.2 million , an increase of $50.0 million from August31, 2016 . During the six months ended February 28, 2017 , the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $71.6 million and received proceeds from the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate of $13.2 million . Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the current period primarily to fund capital expenditures of $35.8 million and to pay dividends to stockholders of $11.5 million . The Company generated $71.6 million of cash flow from operating activities during the six months ended February28, 2017 compared with $119.5 million in the prior-year period, a decrease of $47.9 million , due primarily to higher operating working capital requirements and variable incentive compensation payments in excess of the related accrual, partially offset by higher net income. Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) increased approximately $22.0 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017 compared to a $1.4 million increase during the first six months of fiscal 2016 . Higher operating working capital at February28, 2017 reflected an increase in inventory to support expected higher sales volumes and to improve service to customers. Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. The Company invested $35.8 million and $43.8 million in the first six months of fiscal 2017 and 2016 , respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology. As noted above, the Company expects to invest between approximately two and two and a half percent of sales primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities during fiscal 2017 . Capitalization The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders. As of February28, 2017 , total debt outstanding was $356.1 million , compared with $355.2 million at August31, 2016 , and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. During fiscal 2017 , the Company borrowed $0.9 million under recently-executed fixed-rate long-term bank loans. On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a Revolving Credit Facility ("Revolving Credit Facility") with a borrowing capacity of $250.0 million . The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable on August 27, 2019. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility as of February28, 2017 . At February28, 2017 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $243.9 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $6.1 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of February28, 2017 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $11.0 million , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the casualty insurance programs for Acuity Brands and providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $6.1 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 26 During the first six months of fiscal 2017 , the Company's consolidated stockholders' equity increased $145.0 million to $1.80 billion at February28, 2017 , from $1.66 billion at August31, 2016 . The increase was due primarily to net income earned in the period, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options and the related excess tax benefits, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses partially offset by dividend payments and foreign currency translation adjustments. The Company's debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders' equity) was 16.5% and 17.6% at February28, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was (6.3)% at February28, 2017 and (3.6)% at August31, 2016 . Dividends Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $11.5 million and $11.4 million ( $0.26 per share) during the six months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 , respectively. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends by Acuity Brands are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of the Company's financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant. Results of Operations Second Quarter of Fiscal 2017 Compared with Second Quarter of Fiscal 2016 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the three months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 (in millions except per share data): Net sales were $804.7 million for the three months ended February28, 2017 compared with $777.8 million reported for the three months ended February29, 2016 , an increase of $26.9 million , or 3.5% . For the three months ended February28, 2017 , the Company reported net income of $67.3 million , an increase of $1.8 million , or 2.7% , compared with $65.5 million for the three months ended February29, 2016 . For the second quarter of fiscal 2017 , diluted earnings per share increased 2.7% to $1.53 compared with $1.49 reported in the year-ago period. The following table reconciles certain U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share- 27 based payment expense, and special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization. Although special charges, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and share-based payment expense have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, management typically excludes these charges during internal reviews of performance and uses these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. Primarily due to the impact of the four acquisitions completed during fiscal 2016, the Company experienced noticeable increases in amortization of acquired intangibles, share-based payments used to improve retention and align the interest of key leaders of acquired businesses, and special charges due to activities to streamline and integrate those acquisitions. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted selling, distribution, and administrative ("SD&A") expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Company's current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Amounts in the following table are shown in millions except per share data. ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory, professional fees, and certain contract termination costs. 28 Net Sales Net sales for the three months ended February28, 2017 increased 3.5% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an approximately 4% increase in sales volume and an approximately 1% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in product prices and the mix of products sold ("price/mix") of approximately 1% as well as a modest unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rate changes. Overall sales volume was higher across key product categories and sales channels; however, volumes declined in Europe and Mexico. Sales of LED-based products during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 accounted for approximately two-thirds of total net sales. The change in price/mix was due primarily to lower pricing on luminaires, largely as a result of lower LED component costs. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 decreased $1.1 million , or 0.3% , to $335.8 million compared with $336.9 million in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased 160 basis points to 41.7% for the three months ended February28, 2017 compared with 43.3% in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period due primarily to increased manufacturing expenses driven largely by higher wages and inbound freight charges, as well as higher quality costs, partially offset by the additional contribution on higher net sales. Additionally, unfavorable price/mix was partially offset by lower material and component costs. Adjusted gross profit for the three months ended February28, 2017 was $335.8 million ( 41.7% of net sales) compared with $338.3 million ( 43.5% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit SD&A expenses for the three months ended February28, 2017 were $227.8 million compared with $230.1 million in the prior-year period, a decrease of $2.3 million , or 1.0% . The decrease in SD&A expenses was due primarily to lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher costs for freight, commissions, and investments in additional headcount, as well asincreased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, which includes $1.9 million of additional expense due to cumulative adjustments to the provisional amounts of the value of intangibles assets related to the Juno Lighting acquisition. SD&A expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were 28.3% of net sales compared with 29.6% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the three months ended February28, 2017 were $211.9 million ( 26.3% of net sales) compared with $210.9 million ( 27.1% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was $108.0 million ( 13.4% of net sales) compared with $106.7 million ( 13.7% of net sales) for the prior-year period, an increase of $1.3 million , or 1.2% . The increase in operating profit was due primarily to an increase in sales volume, lower material and component costs, and lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher manufacturing expenses, freight, commissions, investments in additional headcount, and increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. Adjusted operating profit decreased by $3.5 million , or 2.7% , to $123.9 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with $127.4 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2016 . Adjusted operating profit margin decreased 100 basis points to 15.4% for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with 16.4% for the year-ago period. Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income/expense, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $8.0 million and $8.2 million for the three months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 , respectively. The Company reported net miscellaneous expense of $0.6 million and net miscellaneous income of $1.1 million for the three months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 , respectively. Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 32.3% and 34.2% for the three months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 , respectively. The decrease in the effective income rate was due primarily to the tax impact of a discrete, nonrecurring item related to the issuance of new Internal Revenue Service regulations during the current 29 quarter related to taxation of foreign currency translation gains and losses on intercompany accounts. The Company estimates that the effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 will be approximately 35.0% before any additional discrete items and if the rates in its taxing jurisdictions remain generally consistent throughout the year. Net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 increased $1.8 million to $67.3 million from $65.5 million reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit and a lower provision for income taxes, partially offset by greater miscellaneous expense. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended February28, 2017 increased $0.04 to $1.53 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.49 for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was $77.7 million compared with $79.1 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $1.4 million , or 1.8% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended February28, 2017 decreased $0.03 , or 1.7% , to $1.77 compared with $1.80 for the prior-year period. First Six Months of Fiscal 2017 Compared with First Six Months of Fiscal 2016 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the six months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 : Net sales were $1.7 billion for the six months ended February28, 2017 compared with $1.5 billion reported for the six months ended February29, 2016 , an increase of $141.5 million , or 9.3% . For the six months ended February28, 2017 , the Company reported net income of $149.0 million , an increase of $15.1 million , or 11.3% , compared with $133.9 million for the six months ended February29, 2016 . For the first six months of fiscal 2017 , diluted earnings per share increased 10.8% to $3.39 compared with $3.06 reported in the year-ago period. The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, certain manufacturing inefficiencies, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization, and the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted SD&A expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted other expense (income), adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the 30 Company's current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Amounts in the following table are shown in millions except per share data. ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory, professional fees, and certain contract termination costs. (2) Incremental costs incurred due to manufacturing inefficiencies directly related to the closure of a facility. 31 Net Sales Net sales for the six months ended February28, 2017 increased $141.5 million , or 9.3% , compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an increase in sales volume of approximately 7% and an approximately 5% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of an unfavorable change in price/mix of approximately 2% and an unfavorable change in foreign currency rates of approximately 1% . Overall sales volume was higher across key product categories and sales channels; however, volumes declined in Europe and Mexico. Sales of LED-based luminaires during the first six months of fiscal 2017 accounted for approximately two-thirds of total net sales. The change in price/mix was due primarily to changes in the mix of products sold and lower pricing on luminaires, reflecting the decline in certain LED component costs. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify volume or differentiate the individual components of price/mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2017 increased $39.1 million , or 6.0% , to $695.4 million compared with $656.3 million in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased to 42.0% for the six months ended February28, 2017 compared with 43.3% in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period due primarily to increased manufacturing expenses driven largely by higher wages and freight charges, as well as higher quality costs, partially offset by the additional contribution on higher net sales. Additionally, unfavorable price/mix was partially offset by lower material and component costs. Adjusted gross profit for the six months ended February28, 2017 was $697.0 million ( 42.1% of net sales) compared with $658.3 million ( 43.5% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit SD&A expenses for the six months ended February28, 2017 were $459.6 million compared with $436.7 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $22.9 million , or 5.2% . The increase in SD&A expenses was due primarily to higher freight charges, commissions, investments in additional headcount, and the additional costs associated with acquired businesses, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense. SD&A expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2017 were 27.8% of net sales compared with 28.8% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the six months ended February28, 2017 were $429.9 million ( 26.0% of net sales) compared with $405.0 million ( 26.7% of net sales) in the prior-year period. The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $1.2 million during the first six months of fiscal 2017 , compared with a pre-tax special charge of $0.5 million during the first six months of fiscal 2016 . These charges related primarily to actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various SD&A departments. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Operating profit for the first six months of fiscal 2017 was $234.6 million compared with $219.1 million for the prior-year period, an increase of $15.5 million , or 7.1% . The increase in operating profit was due primarily to an increase in sales volume, lower material and component costs, and lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher manufacturing expenses, higher freight and commissions charges, investments in additional headcount, increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, which includes $1.9 million of additional expense due to cumulative adjustments to the provisional amounts of the value of intangibles assets related to the Juno Lighting acquisition, and higher special charges. Adjusted operating profit increased by $13.8 million , or 5.4% , to $267.1 million for the first six months of fiscal 2017 compared with $253.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2016 . Adjusted operating profit margin for the first six months of fiscal 2017 decreased 60 basis points to 16.1% compared with 16.7% in the year-ago period. 32 Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions. Interest expense, net, was $16.2 million for the six months ended February28, 2017 compared with $16.1 million for the six months ended February29, 2016 . The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $7.3 million in the first six months of fiscal 2017 compared with $1.8 million in the prior-year period. Net miscellaneous income for the six months ended February28, 2017 included a $7.2 million gain associated with the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 34.0% and 34.6% for the six months ended February28, 2017 and February29, 2016 , respectively. Net income for the first six months of fiscal 2017 increased $15.1 million to $149.0 million from $133.9 million reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit and higher miscellaneous income, partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February28, 2017 increased $0.33 to $3.39 compared with diluted earnings per share of $3.06 for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the first six months of fiscal 2017 was $165.5 million compared with $156.6 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $8.9 million , or 5.7% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the six months ended February28, 2017 increased $0.18 , or 5.0% , to $3.76 compared with $3.58 for the prior-year period. Outlook Management believes that the execution of the Company's strategy will provide opportunities for continued profitable growth. The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio combined with its extensive market presence and financial strength. While the growth rate of lighting solutions in the North American market in the first half of fiscal 2017 was lower than anticipated by most economic and industry forecasts, management believes significant long-term growth opportunities continue to exist. Current quoting activity remains favorable, and both short and long-term fundamental drivers of the markets that the Company serves remain positive. Further, third-party forecasts suggest that the softness in market demand that began in the third calendar quarter of 2016 and continued through the Company's second quarter may persist through the remainder of fiscal 2017. These forecasts indicate that the North American lighting market could remain essentially flat for the second half of the Company's fiscal 2017 and should return to growth in fiscal 2018. Management expects to continue to outperform the growth rates of the markets that the Company serves by executing its strategies focused on growth opportunities for new construction and renovation projects, expansion into underpenetrated geographies and channels, and growth from the continued introduction of new lighting and building management solutions as part of the Company's integrated, tiered solutions strategy. Recent changes in the U.S. political landscape have produced a great amount of rhetoric and debate regarding a wide range of policy options with respect to monetary, regulatory, tax, and trade, amongst others, that may be pursued by the new administration. Any policy changes implemented may have a positive or negative consequence on the Company's financial performance depending on how the changes would influence many factors, including business and consumer sentiment. While management is proactively identifying and evaluating potential contingency options under various policy scenarios, it is too early to comment or speculate at this time on the potential ramification of these endless scenarios. From a longer term perspective, management expects that the Company's addressable markets will experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the IoT through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. Management remains positive about the future prospects of the Company and its ability to outperform the markets it serves. 33 Critical Accounting Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements , which have been prepared in accordance with U.S.GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; accounts receivable; inventory valuation; depreciation, amortization, and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based payment expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; income taxes; retirement benefits; litigation; and environmental matters. Management bases its estimates and judgments on its substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management discusses the development of accounting estimates with the Company's Audit Committee of the Board. There have been no material changes in the Company's critical accounting estimates during the current period. For a detailed discussion of significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, please refer to the Company's Form 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as "expects," "believes," "intends," "anticipates," and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company. In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company's behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company's projections regarding financial performance (including, but not limited to, targeted variable contribution margin), liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of softness in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building automation solutions market growth rate and growth in the Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) the Company's estimate of its fiscal 2017 tax rate; (f) the Company's estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company's ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; and (h) the Company's expectations about the resolution of the trade compliance matters. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this annual report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The Company's forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the Company and management's present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company. Also, additional risks that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, "Item 1a. Risk Factors" of the Company's Form10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.Item 1. Financial Statements ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions, except share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 1 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited) (In millions, except per-share data) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 2 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In millions) The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 3 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company's lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things ("IoT") and supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. The Company has one reportable segment serving the North American and select international markets. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with U.S.generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S.GAAP") and present the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. These unaudited interim consolidated financial statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to present fairly the Company's consolidated financial position as of May31, 2017 , the consolidated comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 , and the consolidated cash flows for the nine months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 . Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Company's annual financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted. However, the Company believes that the disclosures included herein are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the three years ended August31, 2016 and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2016 (File No. 001-16583) ("Form 10-K"). The results of operations for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year due primarily to seasonality, which results in the net sales and net income of the Company generally being higher in the second half of its fiscal year, the impact of any acquisitions, and, among other reasons, the continued uncertainty of general economic conditions that may impact the key end markets of the Company for the remainder of fiscal 2017 . 2. Significant Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Reclassifications Certain prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. No material reclassifications occurred during the current period. 3. Acquisitions and Investments The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities for growth through acquisitions and investments. In recent years, the Company has acquired or made investments in a number of businesses that participate in the lighting, building management, and related markets, including the businesses described below. The acquisitions and investments were made with the intent to further expand and complement the Company's lighting and building management solutions portfolio. The purchased companies were fully integrated into the Company's operations at their respective acquisition dates. 4 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) DGLogik, Inc. On June 30, 2016, using cash on hand and treasury stock, the Company acquired DGLogik, Inc. ("DGLogik"), a provider of innovative software solutions that enable and visualize the IoT. DGLogik's solutions provide users with the intelligence to better manage energy usage and improve facility performance. DGLogik is headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, California. The operating results of DGLogik have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition and are not material to the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company finalized the acquisition accounting for DGLogik during fiscal 2017, and the amounts are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . There were no material changes to the Company's financial statements as a result of the finalization of the acquisition accounting. Juno Lighting LLC On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $380 million all of the equity interests of Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. Juno Lighting is headquartered in Des Plaines, Illinois. At the time of acquisition, Juno Lighting generated annual revenues of approximately $250 million . The operating results of Juno Lighting have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. Provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date related to the Juno Lighting acquisition were prospectively adjusted in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 to reflect the finalization of the valuation of customer relationships and certain accrued liabilities. These adjustments resulted in an increase to intangible assets, net of $81.1 million , a decrease to goodwill of $50.5 million , an increase to deferred income tax liabilities of $29.6 million , and a decrease to net operating working capital of $1.0 million in the second quarter. The fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed were finalized and reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets prospectively as of February 28, 2017. Geometri LLC On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. The operating results of Geometri have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. The Company finalized the acquisition accounting for Geometri during fiscal 2017, and the amounts are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . There were no material changes to the Company's financial statements as a result of the finalization of the acquisition accounting. Distech Controls Inc. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired for approximately $240 million all of the outstanding capital stock of Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Distech Controls is headquartered in Quebec, Canada. At the time of acquisition, Distech Controls generated annual revenues of approximately $60 million . The Company finalized the acquisition accounting for Distech Controls during fiscal 2016, and the amounts are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . There were no material changes to the Company's financial statements as a result of the finalization of the acquisition accounting. 5 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 4. New Accounting Pronouncements Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2017 In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2017-0 4, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment ("ASU 2017-04"). This guidance eliminates the requirement to determine the implied fair value of goodwill to measure an impairment of goodwill. Rather, goodwill impairment charges will be calculated as the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Adoption of the provisions in ASU 2017-04 is required for the Company for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company adopted ASU 2017-04 effective beginning in the current period. The provisions of ASU 2017-04 did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments ("ASU 2015-16"), which simplifies the accounting for measurement-period adjustments to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. ASU 2015-16 eliminates the requirement to retrospectively account for adjustments made to provisional amounts recorded in connection with a business combination and is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2015. The Company adopted ASU 2017-04 this fiscal year and presented all adjustments to provisional amounts recorded in connection within a business combination in fiscal 2017 prospectively. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, Customer's Accounting For Fees Paid In A Cloud Computing Arrangement ("ASU 2015-05"), which provides guidance for a customer's accounting for cloud computing costs. ASU 2015-05 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2015. The provisions of ASU 2015-05 did not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Accounting Standards Yet to Be Adopted In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-05, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost ("ASU 2017-05"), which will change the presentation of net periodic benefit cost related to employer sponsored defined benefit plans and other postretirement benefits. Service cost will be included within the same income statement line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, while other components of net periodic benefit pension cost will be presented separately outside of operating income. Additionally, only service costs may be capitalized in assets. ASU 2017-05 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017. The provisions of ASU 2017-05 are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business ("ASU 2017-01"), which requires an evaluation of whether substantially all of the fair value of assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If so, the transaction does not qualify as a business. The guidance also requires an acquired business to include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs. The Company is required to apply this guidance to annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2017-01 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows ("ASU 2016-15"), which is intended to reduce the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows including debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance. ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2019, and the provisions of ASU 2016-15 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial statement disclosures. 6 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting , ("ASU 2016-09"), which will change certain aspects of accounting for share-based payments to employees. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2016. The standard requires that all excess tax benefits and deficiencies currently recorded as additional paid-in capital be prospectively recorded in income tax expense. As such, implementation of this standard could create volatility in the Company's effective income tax rate on a quarter by quarter basis. The volatility in the effective income tax rate is due primarily to fluctuations in the Company's stock price and the timing of stock option exercises and vesting of restricted share grants. The standard also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows rather than as a financing activity and taxes paid for employee withholdings to be presented as a financing activity. The Company will implement the standard as required in fiscal 2018. Excess tax benefits will be recorded within income tax expense on a prospective basis as required by the standard; however, the Company plans to elect to present changes to the statement of cash flows on a retrospective basis as allowed by the update in order to maintain comparability between fiscal years. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"), which requires lessees to include most leases on the balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years (and interim reporting periods within those years) beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2016-02 and intends to implement the standard as required in fiscal 2020. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASU 2014-09"), which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. ASU 2014-09 permits two transition methods: the full retrospective method and the modified retrospective method. Under the full retrospective method, the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented with the cumulative effect of applying the standard recognized at the earliest period shown. Under the modified retrospective method, the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , which clarifies the guidance in ASU 2014-09 and has the same effective date as the original standard. During the three months ended July 1, 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing; ASU 2016-11, Rescission of SEC Guidance Because of Accounting Standards Updates 2014-09 and 2014-16 Pursuant to Staff Announcements at the March 3, 2016 EITF Meeting; and ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients. These amendments are intended to improve and clarify the implementation guidance of ASU 2014-09 and have the same effective date as the original standard. The Company has an implementation team tasked with identifying potential differences that will result from applying the new revenue recognition standard to the Company's contracts with its customers. The implementation team reports the findings and progress of the project to management on a frequent basis and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The implementation team is completing contract reviews and continues to evaluate the results of those reviews with respect to potential changes from adopting the new standard on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the implementation team is in the process of identifying appropriate changes to the Company's business processes, systems, and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new standard. The Company will adopt the requirements of the new standard effective September 1, 2018. All other newly issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective have been deemed either immaterial or not applicable. 5. Fair Value Measurements The Company determines fair value measurements based on the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC820"), establishes a three level hierarchy making a distinction between market participant assumptions based on (i)unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market (Level1), (ii)quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly for substantially the full term of the asset or liability (Level2), and (iii)prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement (Level3). 7 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The Company's cash and cash equivalents (Level 1), which are required to be carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis, were $189.7 million and $413.2 million as of May31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. The Company utilizes valuation methodologies to determine the fair values of its financial assets and liabilities in conformity with the concepts of "exit price" and the fair value hierarchy as prescribed in ASC820. All valuation methods and assumptions are validated at least quarterly to ensure the accuracy and relevance of the fair values. There were no material changes to the valuation methods or assumptions used to determine fair values during the current period. The Company used quoted market prices to determine the fair value of Level 1 assets and liabilities. No transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy occurred during the current fiscal period. In the event of a transfer in or out of a level within the fair value hierarchy, the transfers would be recognized on the date of occurrence. Disclosures of fair value information about financial instruments (whether or not recognized in the balance sheet), for which it is practicable to estimate that value, are required each reporting period in addition to any financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis as prescribed by ASCTopic 825, Financial Instruments ("ASC825"). In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. The carrying values and estimated fair values of certain of the Company's financial instruments were as follows at May31, 2017 and August31, 2016 (in millions): Investment in noncontrolling affiliate represents a strategic investment accounted for using the cost method. The Company based the fair value of the investment as of August31, 2016 on an offer by a third party to purchase the business (Level 3). The Company sold the investment during October 2016, resulting in the recognition of a gain of $7.2 million , which is reflected in Miscellaneous income, net on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income . The senior unsecured public notes are carried at the outstanding balance, net of unamortized bond discount and deferred costs, as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). The industrial revenue bond is carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. The industrial revenue bond is a tax-exempt, variable-rate instrument that resets on a weekly basis; therefore, the Company estimates that the face amount of the bond approximates fair value as of May31, 2017 based on bonds of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). The bank loans are carried at the outstanding balance as of the end of the reporting period. Fair value is estimated based on discounted future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity (Level 2). ASC 825 excludes certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments from its disclosure requirements. Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value to the Company. In many cases, the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets, nor can the disclosed value be realized in immediate settlement of the instruments. In evaluating the Company's management of liquidity and other risks, the fair values of all assets and liabilities should be taken into consideration, not only those presented above. 8 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 6. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Through multiple acquisitions, the Company acquired intangible assets consisting primarily of trademarks and trade names associated with specific products with finite lives, definite-lived distribution networks, patented technology, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names that are expected to generate cash flows indefinitely. The Company recorded amortization expense of $8.2 million and $7.5 million during the three months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $21.9 million and $18.5 million during the nine months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Amortization expense is generally recorded on a straight-line basis and is expected to be approximately $28.3 million in fiscal 2017 , $28.4 million in fiscal 2018 , $28.4 million in fiscal 2019 , $28.0 million in fiscal 2020 , and $27.7 million in fiscal 2021 . During the current fiscal year, the Company finalized the purchase accounting allocation for Juno Lighting and DGLogik. Refer to the Acquisitions & Investments footnote for additional information regarding the purchase price allocations for these acquisitions. The change in the carrying amount of goodwill during the nine months ended May31, 2017 is summarized below (in millions): Further discussion of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets is included within the Significant Accounting Policies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 7. Inventories Inventories include materials, labor, in-bound freight, and related manufacturing overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out or average cost basis) or market, and consist of the following (in millions): _______________________________________ (1) Due to the immaterial amount of estimated work in process and the short lead times for the conversion of raw materials to finished goods, the Company does not believe the segregation of raw materials and work in process to be meaningful information. 8. Earnings Per Share Prior to fiscal 2017, basic earnings per share was computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, which was modified to include the effects of all participating securities during the period, as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share ("ASC 260"). Participating securities included unvested share-based payment awards with a right to receive nonforfeitable dividends. The equity plan approved by stockholders in January 2013 changed the dividend provisions, causing share-based payment awards to lose the right to receive nonforfeitable dividends. Due to this change, any shares granted after January 2013 were not participating securities as prescribed by the two-class method under ASC 260 and were accounted for in the diluted earnings per share calculation described below. 9 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The impact of participating securities was not material for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 . Therefore, basic earnings per share for these periods is computed by dividing net earnings available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly but reflects the potential dilution that would occur if dilutive options were exercised, all unvested share-based payment awards were vested, and other distributions related to deferred stock agreements were incurred. The following table calculates basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 (in millions, except per share data): The following table presents stock options and restricted stock awards that were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 as the effect of inclusion would have been antidilutive: Further discussion of the Company's stock options and restricted stock awards is included within the Common Stock and Related Matters and Share-Based Payments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 9.Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income represents a measure of all changes in equity that result from recognized transactions and other economic events other than transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Other comprehensive income (loss) for the Company includes foreign currency translation and pension adjustments. The following table presents the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) during the nine months ended May 31, 2017 (in millions): 10 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The following tables present the tax expense or benefit allocated to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 (in millions): _______________________________________ (1) These accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) components are included in net periodic pension cost. See Pension Plans footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. 10. Debt Lines of Credit On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a $250.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). The Revolving Credit Facility will mature, and all amounts outstanding will be due and payable, on August27, 2019 . The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of May31, 2017 . The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio ("Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio") and a leverage ratio ("Maximum Leverage Ratio") of total indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization expense ("EBITDA"), as such terms are defined in the Revolving Credit Facility agreement. These ratios are computed at the end of each fiscal quarter for the most recent 12-month period. The Revolving Credit Facility allows for a Minimum Interest Coverage Ratio of 2.50 and a Maximum Leverage Ratio of 3.50 , subject to certain conditions defined in the financing agreement. As of May31, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. At May31, 2017 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $244.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of May31, 2017 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $10.2 million , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. 11 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) Generally, amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a Eurocurrency Rate. Eurocurrency Rate advances can be denominated in a variety of currencies, including U.S. Dollars, and amounts outstanding bear interest at a periodic fixed rate equal to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") for the applicable currency plus a margin as determined by the Company's leverage ratio ("Applicable Margin"). The Applicable Margin is based on the Company's leverage ratio, as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility, with such margin ranging from 1.000% to 1.575% . The Company is required to pay certain fees in connection with the Revolving Credit Facility, including administrative service fees and an annual facility fee. The annual facility fee is payable quarterly, in arrears, and is determined by the Company's leverage ratio as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility. This facility fee ranges from 0.125% to 0.300% of the aggregate $250.0 million commitment of the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility. Long-term Debt At May31, 2017 , the Company had $350.0 million of publicly-traded, senior unsecured notes outstanding at a 6% interest rate that are scheduled to mature in December 2019 (the "Notes") and $4.0 million of tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds that are scheduled to mature in 2021 . The Company also had $3.7 million outstanding under fixed-rate bank loans. Further discussion of the Company's long-term debt is included within the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net, is comprised primarily of interest expense on long-term debt, obligations in connection with non-qualified retirement benefits, and Revolving Credit Facility borrowings partially offset by interest income on cash and cash equivalents. The following table summarizes the components of interest expense, net for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 (in millions): 11. Commitments and Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to the effects of certain contractual stipulations, events, transactions, and laws and regulations that may, at times, require the recognition of liabilities, such as those related to self-insurance reserves and claims, legal and contractual issues, environmental laws and regulations, guarantees, and indemnities. The Company establishes reserves when the associated costs related to uncertainties or guarantees become probable and can be reasonably estimated. For the period ended May31, 2017 , no material changes have occurred in the Company's reserves for self-insurance, litigation, environmental matters, guarantees and indemnities, or relevant events and circumstances, from those disclosed in the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. Trade Compliance Matters Prior to the close of the acquisition, Distech Controls discovered shipments by it and its subsidiaries of standard commercial building control products directly or indirectly to customers in a country that may constitute violations of U.S. and Canadian sanctions or export regulations, including those administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control ("OFAC") and the Export Controls Division ofthe Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development ("DFATD"). Distech Controls estimates that it received total revenue of approximately $0.3 million from these shipments. Distech Controls voluntarily self-reported the potential violations to OFAC and DFATD and retained outside counsel that conducted an investigation of the matter and filed a full voluntary disclosure with these agencies. The Company has assessed the matter and implemented related ongoing compliance and remediation efforts. 12 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) The Company intends to fully cooperate with respect to any investigations by governmental agencies of the potential violations. The former shareholders of Distech Controls have jointly agreed to indemnify the Company for damages, as a result of, in respect of, connected with or arising out of the potential violations or any inaccuracy or breach of the representations made by Distech Controls to the Company related thereto, up to a specified aggregate amount, which is not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements. These indemnity obligations are supported by an escrow account containing proceeds from the transaction equal to the specified aggregate amount. The Company currently believes that this indemnity will be sufficient to cover any damages related to the potential violations and the costs and expenses related to the investigation thereof and any related remedial actions. The Company therefore does not expect this matter to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, cash flow, or results of operations of the Company. There can be no assurance, however, that actual damages, costs and expenses will not be in excess of the indemnity or that the Company and its affiliates will not be subject to other damages, including but not limited to damage to the Company's reputation or monetary or non-monetary penalties as permitted under applicable trade laws, that may not be fully covered by the indemnity. Estimated liabilities for legal fees as well as potential fines or penalties related to this matter are included in Other accrued liabilities within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, in the course of routine reviews of import and export activity of its other subsidiaries, the Company determined that it misclassified and inaccurately valued certain international shipments of products. The Company is conducting a detailed review of this activity to determine the extent of any liabilities and the appropriate remedial measures. At this time, the Company is unable to determine the likelihood or amount of any loss associated with these shipments. Product Warranty and Recall Costs The Company records an allowance for the estimated amount of future warranty costs when the related revenue is recognized. Estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting repair or return of that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. Estimated future warranty and recall costs are primarily based on historical experience of identified warranty and recall claims. However, there can be no assurance that future warranty or recall costs will not exceed historical amounts or that new technology products, which may include extended warranties, may not generate unexpected costs. If actual future warranty or recall costs exceed historical amounts, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. Reserves for product warranty and recall costs are included in Other accrued liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The changes in the reserves for product warranty and recall costs during the nine months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 are summarized as follows (in millions): Litigation The Company is subject to various legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including patent infringement, employment matters, and product liability claims. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company in future periods. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when associated costs become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims. However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved. 13 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 12. Share-based Payments The Company accounts for share-based payments through the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for share-based payment awards made to employees and directors of the Company, including stock options and restricted shares (all part of the Company's equity incentive plan), and share units representing certain deferrals into the Company's director deferred compensation plan or the Company's supplemental deferred savings plan. The following table presents share-based payment expense and new shares issued upon exercise of stock options for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 (in millions, except shares): Further details regarding each of these award programs and the Company's share-based payments are included within the Share-Based Payments footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 13.Pension Plans The Company has several pension plans, both qualified and non-qualified, covering certain hourly and salaried employees. Benefits paid under these plans are based generally on employees' years of service and/or compensation during the final years of employment. Plan assets are invested primarily in equity and fixed income securities. Net periodic pension cost for the Company's defined benefit pension plans during the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 included the following components before tax (in millions): Further details regarding the Company's pension plans are included within the Pension and Defined Contribution Plans footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K. 14 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 14. Special Charge During fiscal 2017 and 2016 , the Company recorded pre-tax special charges for actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various selling, distribution, and administrative departments. The Company expects that these actions to streamline its business activities, in addition to those taken in previous fiscal years, will allow it to reduce spending in certain areas while permitting continued investment in future growth initiatives, such as new products, expanded market presence, and technology and innovation. The details of the special charge during the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 are summarized as follows (in millions): As of May31, 2017 , remaining restructuring reserves were $2.7 million and are included in Accrued compensation and Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets . The changes in the reserves related to these programs during the nine months ended May 31, 2017 are summarized as follows (in millions): 15 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) 15. Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements In December 2009, ABL, the 100% owned and principal operating subsidiary of Acuity Brands, refinanced the then current outstanding debt through the issuance of the Notes. See Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the Company's Form 10-K for further information. In accordance with the registration rights agreement by and between ABL and the guarantors to the Notes and the initial purchasers of the Notes, ABL and the guarantors to the Notes filed a registration statement with the SEC for an offer to exchange the Notes for an issue of SEC-registered notes with identical terms. Due to the filing of the registration statement and offer to exchange, the Company determined the need for compliance with Rule3-10 of SEC RegulationS-X ("Rule3-10"). In lieu of providing separate audited financial statements for ABL and ABL IP Holding, the Company has included the accompanying Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in accordance with Rule3-10(d) of SEC RegulationS-X since the Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Acuity Brands and ABL IP Holding. The column marked "Parent" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Acuity Brands. The column marked "Subsidiary Issuer" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL. The column entitled "Subsidiary Guarantor" represents the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of ABL IP Holding. Lastly, the column listed as "Non-Guarantors" includes the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the non-guarantor direct and indirect subsidiaries of Acuity Brands, which consist primarily of foreign subsidiaries. Consolidating adjustments were necessary in order to arrive at consolidated amounts. In addition, the equity method of accounting was used to calculate investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, this basis of presentation is not intended to present the Company's financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for any purpose other than to comply with the specific requirements for parent-subsidiary guarantor reporting. 16 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS (In millions) 17 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS (In millions) 18 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 19 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 20 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 21 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOL IDATING STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (In millions) 22 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In millions) 23 ACUITY BRANDS, INC. NOTESTO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS(Unaudited) CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In millions) 24 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. ("Acuity Brands") and its subsidiaries as of May31, 2017 and for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2017 and 2016 . The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report. Also, please refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August31, 2016 , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October27, 2016 ("Form 10-K"). Overview Company Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. ("ABL") and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the "Company"). The Company has its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia. The Company is one of the world's leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company's lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things ("IoT") and supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid. As of May31, 2017 , the Company operates nineteen manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with one warehouse to serve its extensive customer base. The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions, including the following transactions: On June 30, 2016, using cash on hand and treasury stock, the Company acquired DGLogik, Inc. ("DGLogik"), a provider of innovative software solutions that enable and visualize the IoT. DGLogik's solutions provide users with the intelligence to better manage energy usage and improve facility performance. On December 10, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Juno Lighting LLC ("Juno Lighting"), a leading provider of downlighting and track lighting fixtures for both residential and commercial applications. On December 9, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Geometri, LLC ("Geometri"), a provider of a software and services platform for mapping, navigation, and analytics. On September 1, 2015, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Distech Controls Inc. ("Distech Controls"), a provider of building automation solutions that allow for the integration of lighting, HVAC, access control, closed circuit television, and related systems. Please refer to the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation and Acquisitions & Investments footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements. 25 Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements, and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months. The Company's short-term needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding potential acquisitions, and repurchasing shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board of Directors (the "Board"). During the current year, the Company purchased two million shares of the Company's common stock, which completed the share repurchases previously authorized by the Board. In June 2017, the Board authorized the repurchase of an additional two million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock in the future. The Company currently expects capital spending to be approximately two percent of sales during fiscal 2017 , of which $55.2 million had been invested as of May31, 2017 , primarily for equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements, as well as for new and enhanced information technology capabilities. Additionally, management believes that the Company's cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company. Cash Flow The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations and capital expenditures, repurchase common stock of the Company, fund acquisitions, and pay dividends. The Company's cash position at May31, 2017 was $189.7 million , a decrease of $223.5 million from August31, 2016 . During the nine months ended May 31, 2017 , the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $179.3 million and received proceeds from the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate of $13.2 million . Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the current period primarily to repurchase shares of the Company's outstanding common stock of $357.9 million , to fund capital expenditures of $55.2 million , and to pay dividends to stockholders of $17.2 million . The Company generated $179.3 million of cash flow from operating activities during the nine months ended May31, 2017 compared with $243.9 million in the prior-year period, a decrease of $64.6 million , due primarily to higher operating working capital requirements and variable incentive compensation payments for prior year performance, partially offset by higher net income. Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) increased approximately $34.4 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 compared to an $11.2 million increase during the first nine months of fiscal 2016 . Higher operating working capital at May31, 2017 reflected an increase in inventory to support expected higher sales volumes and to improve service to customers. Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. The Company invested $55.2 million and $61.8 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 and 2016 , respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology. As noted above, the Company expects to invest approximately two percent of sales primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities during fiscal 2017 . Capitalization The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders. As of May31, 2017 , total debt outstanding was $356.7 million , compared with $355.2 million at August31, 2016 , and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. During fiscal 2017 , the Company borrowed $1.1 million under recently-executed fixed-rate long-term bank loans. On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a Revolving Credit Facility ("Revolving Credit Facility") with a borrowing capacity of $250.0 million . The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable on August 27, 2019. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility as of May31, 2017 . At May31, 2017 , the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $244.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of May31, 2017 , the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $10.2 million , primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company's industrial revenue bond, including $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 26 During the first nine months of fiscal 2017 , the Company's consolidated stockholders' equity decreased $124.6 million to $1.54 billion at May31, 2017 , from $1.66 billion at August31, 2016 . The decrease was due primarily to share repurchases, the payment of dividends, and foreign currency translation adjustments, partially offset by net income earned in the period, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses. The Company's debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders' equity) was 18.9% and 17.6% at May31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was 9.8% at May31, 2017 and (3.6)% at August31, 2016 . Dividends Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $17.2 million and $17.1 million ( $0.39 per share) during the nine months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends by Acuity Brands are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of the Company's financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant. Results of Operations Third Quarter of Fiscal 2017 Compared with Third Quarter of Fiscal 2016 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the three months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 (in millions except per share data): Net sales were $891.6 million for the three months ended May31, 2017 compared with $851.5 million reported for the three months ended May31, 2016 , an increase of $40.1 million , or 4.7% . For the three months ended May31, 2017 , the Company reported net income of $82.2 million , an increase of $8.2 million , or 11.1% , compared with $74.0 million for the three months ended May31, 2016 . For the third quarter of fiscal 2017 , diluted earnings per share increased 12.4% to $1.90 compared with $1.69 reported in the year-ago period. The following table reconciles certain U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP") financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share- 27 based payment expense, and special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization. Although the impact of acquisition-related items, special charges, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and share-based payment expense have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, management typically excludes these charges during internal reviews of performance and uses these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. Primarily due to the impact of the four acquisitions completed during fiscal 2016, the Company experienced noticeable increases in amortization of acquired intangibles, share-based payments used to improve retention and align the interest of key leaders of acquired businesses, and special charges due to activities to streamline and integrate those acquisitions. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted selling, distribution, and administrative ("SD&A") expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Company's current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Amounts in the following table are shown in millions except per share data. ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory and professional fees. 28 Net Sales Net sales for the three months ended May31, 2017 increased 4.7% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an approximately 6% increase in sales volume partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in product prices and the mix of products sold ("price/mix") of approximately 1% as well as a modest unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rate changes. Overall, sales volume was higher across most key product categories and sales channels. Sales of LED-based products during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 accounted for approximately two-thirds of total net sales. The change in price/mix was due primarily to lower pricing on luminaires, partially as a result of lower LED component costs. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 increased $1.0 million , or 0.3% , to $378.9 million compared with $377.9 million in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased 190 basis points to 42.5% for the three months ended May31, 2017 compared with 44.4% in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period due primarily to increased manufacturing expenses driven largely by higher quality costs and inbound freight charges as well as higher wages and to a lesser extent, unfavorable price/mix, partially offset by the additional contribution on higher net sales and lower material and component costs. Adjusted gross profit for the three months ended May31, 2017 was $378.9 million ( 42.5% of net sales) compared with $378.8 million ( 44.5% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit SD&A expenses for the three months ended May31, 2017 were $246.9 million compared with $247.2 million in the prior-year period, a decrease of $0.3 million , or 0.1% . The decrease in SD&A expenses was due primarily to lower incentive compensation expense, almost entirely offset by higher costs for freight, commissions, and investments in additional headcount, as well asincreased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. SD&A expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were 27.7% of net sales compared with 29.0% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the three months ended May31, 2017 were $230.6 million ( 25.9% of net sales) compared with $232.7 million ( 27.3% of net sales) in the prior-year period. The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $0.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2017 , compared with a pre-tax special charge of $9.7 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2016 . These charges related primarily to actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various SD&A departments. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Operating profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was $131.5 million ( 14.7% of net sales) compared with $121.0 million ( 14.2% of net sales) for the prior-year period, an increase of $10.5 million , or 8.7% . The increase in operating profit was due primarily to an increase in sales volume, lower special charge, and lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher manufacturing expenses, freight, and commissions, as well as investments in additional headcount and increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. Adjusted operating profit increased by $2.2 million , or 1.5% , to $148.3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with $146.1 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 . Adjusted operating profit margin decreased 60 basis points to 16.6% for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 compared with 17.2% for the year-ago period. Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income/expense, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $8.1 million for both the three months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 . The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $1.2 million and net miscellaneous expense of $0.3 million for the three months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. 29 Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 34.0% and 34.3% for the three months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The Company estimates that the effective tax rate for fiscal 2017 will be approximately 34.5% before any additional discrete items and if the rates in its taxing jurisdictions remain generally consistent throughout the year. Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 increased $8.2 million to $82.2 million from $74.0 million reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit and higher miscellaneous income, partially offset by a greater provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May31, 2017 increased $0.21 to $1.90 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.69 for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was $93.1 million compared with $90.4 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $2.7 million , or 3.0% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May31, 2017 increased $0.09 , or 4.4% , to $2.15 compared with $2.06 for the prior-year period. First Nine Months of Fiscal 2017 Compared with First Nine Months of Fiscal 2016 The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the nine months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 (in millions except per share data): Net sales were $2.55 billion for the nine months ended May31, 2017 compared with $2.37 billion reported for the nine months ended May31, 2016 , an increase of $181.6 million , or 7.7% . For the nine months ended May31, 2017 , the Company reported net income of $231.2 million , an increase of $23.3 million , or 11.2% , compared with $207.9 million for the nine months ended May31, 2016 . For the first nine months of fiscal 2017 , diluted earnings per share increased 11.4% to $5.29 compared with $4.75 reported in the year-ago period. The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company's results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, certain manufacturing inefficiencies, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization, and the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit 30 and margin, adjusted SD&A expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted other expense (income), adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Company's current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Amounts in the following table are shown in millions except per share data. ______________________________ (1) Acquisition-related items include acquired profit in inventory, professional fees, and certain contract termination costs. (2) Incremental costs incurred due to manufacturing inefficiencies directly related to the closure of a facility. 31 Net Sales Net sales for the nine months ended May31, 2017 increased $181.6 million , or 7.7% , compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an increase in sales volume of approximately 6% and an approximately 3% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of an unfavorable change in price/mix of approximately 1% as well as a modest unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rate changes. Overall sales volume was higher across most key product categories and sales channels. Sales of LED-based luminaires during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 accounted for approximately two-thirds of total net sales. The change in price/mix was due primarily to changes in the mix of products sold and lower pricing on luminaires, reflecting the decline in certain LED component costs. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting solutions as well as the proliferation of new products due to the adoption of solid-state lighting, it is not possible to precisely quantify volume or differentiate the individual components of price/mix. Gross Profit Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 increased $40.1 million , or 3.9% , to $1.07 billion compared with $1.03 billion in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased to 42.2% for the nine months ended May31, 2017 compared with 43.7% in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period due primarily to increased manufacturing expenses driven largely by higher wages and freight costs, as well as higher quality costs, partially offset by the additional contribution on higher net sales. Additionally, favorable materials and component costs were partially offset by unfavorable price/mix. Adjusted gross profit for the nine months ended May31, 2017 was $1.08 billion ( 42.2% of net sales) compared with $1.04 billion ( 43.8% of net sales) in the prior-year period. Operating Profit SD&A expenses for the nine months ended May31, 2017 were $706.5 million compared with $683.9 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $22.6 million , or 3.3% . The increase in SD&A expenses was due primarily to higher costs related to freight, commissions, and investments in additional headcount, as well as additional costs associated with acquired businesses, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense. SD&A expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 were 27.7% of net sales compared with 28.9% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the nine months ended May31, 2017 were $660.5 million ( 25.9% of net sales) compared with $637.8 million ( 27.0% of net sales) in the prior-year period. The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $1.7 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017 , compared with a pre-tax special charge of $10.2 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2016 . These charges related primarily to actions initiated to streamline the organization, including the integration of recent acquisitions. These streamlining activities include the consolidation of selected production activities and realignment of certain responsibilities, primarily within various SD&A departments. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Operating profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 was $366.1 million compared with $340.1 million for the prior-year period, an increase of $26.0 million , or 7.6% . The increase in operating profit was due primarily to an increase in sales volume, lower material and component costs, and lower incentive compensation expense, partially offset by higher manufacturing expenses, higher freight and commissions costs, investments in additional headcount, and increased amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. Adjusted operating profit increased by $16.3 million , or 4.1% , to $415.4 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 compared with $399.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2016 . Adjusted operating profit margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 decreased 60 basis points to 16.3% compared with 16.9% in the year-ago period. Other Expense (Income) Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions. Interest expense, net, was $24.3 million for the nine months ended May31, 2017 compared with $24.2 million for the nine months ended May31, 2016 . The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $8.5 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 compared with $1.5 million in the prior-year period. Net miscellaneous income for the nine months ended May31, 2017 included a $7.2 million gain associated with the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. 32 Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income The Company's effective income tax rate was 34.0% and 34.5% for the nine months ended May31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 increased $23.3 million to $231.2 million from $207.9 million reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from higher operating profit and higher miscellaneous income, partially offset by a higher provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May31, 2017 increased $0.54 to $5.29 compared with diluted earnings per share of $4.75 for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 was $258.6 million compared with $246.5 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $12.1 million , or 4.9% . Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May31, 2017 increased $0.29 , or 5.2% , to $5.92 compared with $5.63 for the prior-year period. Outlook Management believes that the execution of the Company's strategy will provide opportunities for continued profitable growth. The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio combined with its extensive market presence and financial strength. Third-party forecasts suggest that softness in demand in the North American lighting market that began in the third calendar quarter of 2016 will continue through the remainder of the calendar year, followed by improvement in growth rates in calendar year 2018. Current quoting activity remains favorable, and both short and long-term fundamental drivers of the markets that the Company serves remain positive. Management is aggressively addressing recent supply chain issues and accelerating programs to reduce product costs to maintain the Company's competitiveness and drive improved profitability. Management expects to continue to outperform the growth rates of the markets that the Company serves by executing its strategies focused on growth opportunities for new construction and renovation projects, expansion into underpenetrated geographies and channels, and growth from the continued introduction of new lighting and building management solutions as part of the Company's integrated, tiered solutions strategy. Recent changes in the U.S. political landscape have produced a great amount of rhetoric and debate regarding a wide range of policy options with respect to monetary, regulatory, tax, and trade, amongst others, that may be pursued by the new administration. Any policy changes implemented may have a positive or negative consequence on the Company's financial performance depending on how the changes would influence many factors, including business and consumer sentiment. While management is proactively identifying and evaluating potential contingency options under various policy scenarios, it is too early to comment or speculate at this time on the potential ramification of these endless scenarios. From a longer term perspective, management expects that the Company's addressable markets will experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the IoT through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. Management remains positive about the future prospects of the Company and its ability to outperform the markets it serves. 33 Critical Accounting Estimates Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements , which have been prepared in accordance with U.S.GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S.GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; accounts receivable; inventory valuation; depreciation, amortization, and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based payment expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; income taxes; retirement benefits; litigation; and environmental matters. Management bases its estimates and judgments on its substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management discusses the development of accounting estimates with the Company's Audit Committee of the Board. There have been no material changes in the Company's critical accounting estimates during the current period. For a detailed discussion of significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, please refer to the Company's Form 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as "expects," "believes," "intends," "anticipates," and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company. In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company's behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company's projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of softness in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building management solutions market growth rate and growth in the Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) the Company's estimate of its fiscal 2017 tax rate; (f) the Company's estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company's ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; (h) the impact to the Company of changes in the political landscape and related policy changes; and (i) the Company's expectations about the resolution of trade compliance matters. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The Company's forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the Company and management's present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company. Also, additional risks that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors of the Company's Form10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.