Item1. Financial Statements ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 3 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME For the Three and Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 and 2014 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 4 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY For the Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 5 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 and 2014 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 6 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Description of Business The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Addus HomeCare Corporation ( Holdings ) and its subsidiaries (together with Holdings, the Company or we ). The Company operates as one business segment and is a provider of comprehensive home and community based services that are primarily personal in nature, which are provided primarily in the home, and focused on the dual eligible (Medicare/Medicaid) population. The Company s services include personal care and assistance with activities of daily living, and adult day care. The Company s consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. The Company s payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. The Company currently provides home and community based services to over 32,000 consumers through 122 locations across 21 states, including 5 adult day centers in Illinois. Principles of Consolidation All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company s investment in entities with less than 20% ownership or in which the Company does not have the ability to influence the operations of the investee are being accounted for using the cost method and are included in investments in joint ventures. Revenue Recognition The Company generates net service revenues by providing services directly to consumers. The Company receives payments for providing services from federal, state and local governmental agencies, commercial insurers and private consumers. The Company s services are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate specified in agreements or fixed by legislation and recognized as revenues at the time services are rendered. Home and community based service revenues are reimbursed by state, local and other governmental programs which are partially funded by Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, with the remainder reimbursed through private duty and insurance programs. Laws and regulations governing the Medicaid and Medicare programs are complex and subject to interpretation. As a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates may change in the near term. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company establishes its allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. The Company estimates its provision for doubtful accounts primarily by aging receivables utilizing eight aging categories and applying its historical collection rates to each aging category, taking into consideration factors that might impact the use of historical collection rates or payor groups, with certain large payors analyzed separately from other payor groups. In the Company s evaluation of these estimates, it also considers delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues, billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems, resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that the Company s management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from the Company s estimates. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets by use of the straight-line method except for internally developed software which is amortized by the sum-of-years digits method. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. The estimated useful lives of the property and equipment are as follows: Goodwill The Company s carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. The Company may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. In Step 0, the Company can elect to perform an optional qualitative analysis and based on the results skip the two step analysis. In 2014, the Company elected to implement Step 0 and was not required to conduct the remaining two step analysis. The results of the Company s Step 0 assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore the Company concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2014. No impairment charges were recorded for the three or nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. Intangible Assets The Company s identifiable intangible assets consist of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks, state licenses and non-compete agreements. Amortization is computed using straight-line and accelerated methods based upon the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which range from two to twenty-fiveyears. 7 Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the estimated economic benefit method over the useful life and assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company would recognize an impairment loss when the estimated future non-discounted cash flows associated with the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. An impairment change would then be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of these intangible assets using the income approach. No impairment charge was recorded for the three or nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. The income approach, which the Company uses to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets (other than goodwill), is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, expected periods the assets will be utilized, appropriate discount rates and other variables. The Company bases its fair value estimates on assumptions the Company believes to be reasonable but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. The Company also has indefinite-lived intangible assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as certificates of need and licenses to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. The Company s management has concluded that certificates of need and licenses have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets, and the Company intends to renew and operate the certificates of need and licenses indefinitely. The certificates of need and licenses are tested annually for impairment. No impairment was recorded for the three or nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. Workers Compensation Program The Company s workers compensation program has a $350,000 deductible component. The Company recognizes its obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. The future claims payments related to the workers compensation program are secured by letters of credit. Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the statement of income as interest income. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, the Company did not receive any prompt payment interest. While the Company may be owed additional prompt payment interest, the amount and timing of receipt of such payments remains uncertain, and the Company has determined that it will continue to recognize prompt payment interest income when received. Interest Expense The Company s interest expense consists of interest costs on its credit facility and other debt instruments. Income Tax Expense The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740, also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. Stock-based Compensation The Company has two stock incentive plans, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan ) and the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2009 Plan ) that provide for stock-based employee compensation. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a graded method under the 2006 Plan and on a straight-line basis under the 2009 Plan over the vesting period of the awards based on the fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. Under the 2006 Plan, the Company historically used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of its stock based payment awards, but beginning October28, 2009 under its 2009 Plan it began using an enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes model and the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model is affected by Holdings stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. Net Income Per Common Share Net income per common share, calculated on the treasury stock method, is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. The Company s outstanding securities that may potentially dilute the common stock are stock options and restricted stock awards. Included in the Company s calculation for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 were 650,000 stock options outstanding, of which 217,000 and 199,000, respectively, were dilutive. In addition, there were 89,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, 23,000 and 5,000 of which were dilutive for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, respectively. Included in the Company s calculation for the three and nine months ended September30, 2014 were 646,000 stock options outstanding, of which 208,000 and 216,000, respectively, were dilutive. In addition, there were 60,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, of which 19,000 and 12,000, respectively, were dilutive for the three and nine months ended September30, 2014. Estimates The financial statements are prepared by management in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) and include estimated amounts and certain disclosures based on assumptions about future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company s financial instruments consist of cash, accounts receivable, payables and debt. The carrying amounts reported in the condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments. The carrying value of the Company s long-term debt with variable interest rates approximates fair value based on instruments with similar terms. 8 The Company applies fair value techniques on a non-recurring basis associated with valuing potential impairment losses related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and also when determining the fair value of contingent considerations. To determine the fair value in these situations, the Company uses Level 3 inputs, such as discounted cash flows, or if available, what a market participant would pay on the measurement date. The Company utilizes the income approach to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets derived from acquisitions. In addition, discounted cash flows were used to estimate the fair value of the Company s investment in joint ventures. New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue for which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. In July 2015, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of the standard from January1, 2017, to January1, 2018, with an option that permits companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. Early application prior to the original effective date is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, Interest Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs. The amendments in this ASU require that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The recognition and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not affected by the amendments in this ASU. ASU 2015-03 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning on or after December15, 2015. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which will explicitly require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. Currently, there is no guidance in GAAP about management s responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity s ability to continue as a going concern or to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this update provide that guidance. In doing so, the amendments should reduce diversity in the timing and content of footnote disclosures. The amendments require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern by incorporating and expanding upon certain principles that are currently in U.S. auditing standards. Specifically, the amendments (1)provide a definition of the term substantial doubt , (2)require an evaluation every reporting period including interim periods, (3)provide principles for considering the mitigating effect of management s plans, (4)require certain disclosures when substantial doubt is alleviated as a result of consideration of management s plans, (5)require an express statement and other disclosures when substantial doubt is not alleviated and (6)require an assessment for a period of one year after the date that the financial statements are issued (or available to be issued). The amendments in this update are effective for the first annual period ending after December15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this update on its financial statements. Reclassification of Prior Period Balances Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts. Previously, property and equipment acquired through certain capital lease obligations had been classified as borrowings on capital lease obligations under cash flows from financing activities and as a purchase of property and equipment under investing activities on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Because ASC 230-10-50-5 requires that for transactions that are part cash and part non-cash, only the cash portion shall be reported in the statement of cash flows, the Company revised the portion of the classification for which its lessor paid the vendors directly to instead be presented as a supplemental disclosure under non-cash investing and financing activities. 2. Acquisitions On April24, 2015, the Company entered into a purchase agreement to acquire South Shore Home Health Service, Inc. and Acaring Home Care, LLC for approximately $18,000,000 to expand into the State of New York. The purchase agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s March31, 2015 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Statements made herein with respect to the purchase agreement are not complete and you should refer to the previously filed Exhibit 10.1 for a copy of the actual agreement. The related acquisition costs to date are $488,000 and are expensed as incurred. Effective January1, 2015, the Company acquired Priority Home Health Care, Inc. ( PHHC ), in order to further expand the Company s presence in the State of Ohio. The total consideration for the transaction was comprised of $4,250,000 in cash. The related acquisition costs were $454,000 and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from this acquired entity are included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. The Company s acquisition of PHHC has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resultant goodwill and other intangible assets will be accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The acquisition was recorded at its fair value as of January1, 2015. The total purchase price is $4,250,000. Under business combination accounting, the total purchase price will be allocated to PHHC s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Based upon management s preliminary valuation, the total purchase price has been allocated as follows: Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for PHHC includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. It is anticipated that the net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. These estimates are provisional and are subject to change. The PHHC acquisition accounted for $2,500,000 and $7,160,000 of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, respectively. 9 Effective June1, 2014, the Company acquired Cura Partners, LLC, which conducts business under the name Aid& Assist at Home, LLC ( Aid& Assist ), in order to further expand the Company s presence in the State of Tennessee. The total consideration for the transaction was $8,192,000, comprised of $7,172,000 in cash and $1,020,000, representing the estimated fair value of contingent earn-out obligation. The related acquisition costs were $508,000 and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from this acquired entity are included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. The Company s acquisition of Aid& Assist has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resultant goodwill and other intangible assets will be accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . The acquisition was recorded at its fair value as of June1, 2014. The total purchase price is $8,192,000 and is comprised of: As of June1, 2014, the contingent earn-out obligation was recorded at its fair value of $1,020,000, which was the present value of the Company s obligation to pay up to $1,168,000 based on probability-weighted estimates of the achievement of certain performance targets, as defined in the earn-out agreement between the parties. As of December31, 2014, the Company revalued this liability at $200,000. This decline in the fair value of the contingent earn-out obligation reflects the acquisition s failure to achieve performance targets expected at the date of acquisition for 2014 and the expectation that the acquisition will fail to achieve performance targets in 2015 and 2016. 10 Under business combination accounting, the total purchase price is allocated to Aid& Assist s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Based upon management s valuation, the total purchase price has been allocated as follows: Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for Aid& Assist includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. It is anticipated that the net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. The Aid& Assist acquisition accounted for $2,524,000 and $8,231,000 of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, respectively, and $3,295,000 and $4,358,000 of net service revenues from operations for the three and nine months ended September30, 2014, respectively. The Company entered into two definitive acquisition agreements to acquire home and community based businesses during 2013 to further its presence in both existing states and to expand into new states. On October17, 2013 the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement to acquire the entire home and community based business of Medi Home Private Care Division of Medical Services of America, Inc. The acquisition included two agencies located in South Carolina which were closed effective November1, 2013; four agencies located in Tennessee and two agencies located in Ohio which closed in January 2014. The Company also entered into an asset purchase agreement to acquire the assets of Coordinated Home Health Care, LLC, a personal care business located in New Mexico ( CHHC ), on November7, 2013. The combined consideration for these two acquisitions was $12,325,000 in cash at the close and a maximum of $2,250,000 in future cash based on certain performance. The purchase included sixteen offices located in Southern New Mexico. The transaction closed effective December1, 2013. The related acquisitions costs were $735,000 for the Medi Home Private Care Division of Medical Services of America, Inc. and CHHC deals, and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from these acquired entities are included in our statement of income from the dates of the respective acquisitions. The Company s acquisition of the assets of CHHC has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations and the resultant goodwill and other intangible assets will be accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . Assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their fair values as of December1, 2013. The total purchase price was $12,825,000 and was comprised of: As of December1, 2013, the contingent earn-out obligation was recorded at its fair value of $1,100,000, which was the present value of the Company s obligation to pay up to $2,250,000 based on probability-weighted estimates of the achievement of certain performance targets, as defined in the earn-out agreement between the parties. As of December31, 2014, the Company revalued this liability at $1,920,000. This increase in the fair value of the contingent earn-out obligation reflects the acquisition s excess achievement of performance targets for the year ended December31, 2014 as a result of higher than anticipated rate of conversion to managed care organizations in the State of New Mexico. As of September30, 2015, the contingent earn-out obligation was recorded at its fair value of $1,250,000. The Company increased this liability by $130,000 to accrue to the maximum earn-out obligation based on probability-weighted estimates of the achievement of certain performance targets, as defined in the earn-out agreement between the parties. $1,000,000 of the liability, which was recorded as the current portion at December31, 2014, was subsequently paid during the second quarter of 2015. 11 Under business combination accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to CHHC s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Based upon management s valuation, the total purchase price was allocated as follows: Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for CHHC includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by management. It is anticipated that the net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. Acquisitions completed during the fourth quarter 2013 accounted for $6,245,000 and $18,116,000 of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, respectively, and $5,821,000 and $16,004,000 of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September30 2014, respectively. 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company s carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare. In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. The Company can elect to perform Step 0, an optional qualitative analysis and based on the results skip the remaining two steps. In 2014, the Company elected to implement Step 0 and was not required to conduct the remaining two step analysis. In performing its goodwill assessment for 2014, the Company evaluated the following factors that affect future business performance: macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, entity-specific events, reporting unit factors and company stock price. As a result of the assessments of these qualitative factors, the Company concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair values of the reporting unit goodwill as of December31, 2014 exceed the carrying values of the unit. Accordingly, the first and second steps of the goodwill impairment test as described in ASC 350-20-35, which includes estimating the fair values of the Company, were not considered necessary. The Company did not record any impairment charges for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015. The Company will perform its annual impairment test for fiscal 2015 during the fourth quarter of 2015. A summary of the goodwill activity for the nine months ended September30, 2015 is provided below: Adjustments to the previously recorded goodwill are primarily credits related to amortization of tax goodwill in excess of book basis. The Company s identifiable intangible assets consist of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks, state licenses and non-compete agreements. Amortization is computed using straight-line and accelerated methods based upon the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which range from two to twenty-five years. The Company also has indefinite-lived assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as licenses and in certain states certificates of need to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. The Company has concluded these assets have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets and the Company intends to renew the licenses indefinitely. The licenses and certificates of need are tested annually for impairment using the cost approach. Under this method assumptions are made about the cost to replace the certificates of need. No impairment charges were recorded in the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. 12 The carrying amount and accumulated amortization of each identifiable intangible asset category consisted of the following at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014: Amortization expense related to the identifiable intangible assets amounted to $767,000 and $2,244,000 for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, respectively, and $710,000 and $1,719,000 for the three and nine months ended September30, 2014, respectively. Goodwill and state licenses are not amortized pursuant to ASC Topic 350. 4. Details of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts Prepaid expenses and other current assets consisted of the following: Accrued expenses consisted of the following: (1) The Company provides health insurance coverage to qualified union employees providing home and community based services in Illinois through a Taft-Hartley multi-employer health and welfare plan under Section302(c)(5) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947. The Company s insurance contributions equal the amount reimbursed by the State of Illinois. Contributions are due within five business days from the date the funds are received from the State. Amounts due of $996,000 and $2,404,000 for health insurance reimbursements and contributions were reflected in prepaid insurance and accrued insurance at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, respectively. (2) As a condition of the sale of substantially all of the assets used in the Company s home health business to subsidiaries of LHC Group. Inc. ( LHCG ) in February 2013, the Company is responsible for any adjustments to Medicare and Medicaid billings prior to the closing. In connection with an internal evaluation of the Company s billing processes, the Company discovered documentation errors in a number of claims that it had submitted to Medicare. Consistent with applicable law, the Company voluntarily remitted $1,840,000 to the U.S. government in March 2014. The Company, using its best judgment, has estimated a total of $1,203,000 for billing adjustments remaining. 5. Long-Term Debt Capital Leases On July12, 2014, September11, 2014 and April13, 2015, the Company executed three 48-month capital lease agreements for $2,650,000, $1,428,000 and $378,000, respectively, with First American Commercial Bancorp, Inc. The capital leases were entered into to finance property and equipment at the Company s new corporate headquarters in Downers Grove, IL. The underlying assets are included in Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. These capital lease obligations require monthly payments through September 2018 and have implicit interest rates that range from 3.0% to 3.6%. At the end of the term, the Company has the option to purchase the assets for $1 per lease agreement. 13 The following is an analysis of the leased property under capital leases by major classes. The future minimum payments for capital leases as of September30, 2015 are as follows: (a) Amount necessary to reduce net minimum lease payments to present value calculated at the Company s incremental borrowing rate at lease inception. (b) Reflected in the balance sheet as current and noncurrent obligations under capital leases of $1,100,000 and $2,162,000, respectively. Senior Secured Credit Facility On August11, 2014, the Company renewed its credit facility. The Company s credit facility provides a $55,000,000 revolving line of credit expiring November2, 2019 and includes a $27,500,000 sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. On November6, 2014, the Company amended its credit facility, with retroactive effect to September30, 2014. The credit facility was amended to (i)reduce the floating interest rate from one-month LIBOR, plus a margin of 4.6% to one-month LIBOR, plus a margin of 3.5%, (ii)reduce the interest rate for loans based on term periods of one, two or three months from the LIBOR rate, plus a margin of 4.6% to the LIBOR rate, plus a margin of 3.5% and (iii)increase the allowed capital expenditures for the fiscal year ending 2014 from $5,000,000 to $7,000,000. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings are co-borrowers, and Holdings has guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving portion of the credit facility, as amended, is based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.25, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$55,000,000 less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on the revolving line of credit may be payable at (i)a floating rate equal to the one-month LIBOR, plus a margin of 3.5%, (ii)the LIBOR rate for term periods of one, two or three months, plus a margin of 3.5% or (iii)the base rate, plus a margin of 1.6%, where the base rate is equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate, plus a margin of 0.5% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with a one month interest period advanced on such day, plus a margin of 3%. The Company pays a fee equal to 0.5%per annum of the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit are charged at a rate of 2.0%per annum payable monthly. The Company did not have any amounts outstanding on the revolving portion of the credit facility as of September30, 2015, and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility reduced by the outstanding letters of credit was $41,504,000 and $39,536,000, as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, respectively. The credit facility contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The credit facility also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, the Company is in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit facility after giving effect thereto, and the Company has an excess availability of at least 10% of the revolving credit commitment under the credit facility), restrictions on the Company s ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, or for the purchase price of any one acquisition to exceed $2,000,000, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. 14 6. Income Taxes A reconciliation of the statutory federal tax rate of 35.0% for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014 is summarized as follows: 7. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings The Company is a party to legal and/or administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. It is the opinion of management that the outcome of such proceedings will not have a material effect on the Company s financial position and results of operations. Employment Agreements The Company has entered into employment agreements with certain members of senior management. The terms of these agreements are up to four years and include non-compete and nondisclosure provisions, as well as provide for defined severance payments in the event of termination. A substantial percentage of the Company s workforce is represented by the Service Employees International Union ( SEIU ). The Company has a national agreement with the SEIU. Wages and benefits are negotiated at the local level at various times throughout the year. These negotiations are often initiated when the Company receives increases in hourly rates from various state agencies. Upon expiration of these collective bargaining agreements, the Company may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms with these labor unions. 8. Significant Payors A substantial portion of the Company s net service revenues and accounts receivables are derived from services performed for federal, state and local governmental agencies. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 50.0% and 52.1% of the Company s net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 48.6% and 53.7% of the Company s net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The related receivables due from the Illinois Department on Aging represented 51.3% of the Company s accounts receivable at September30, 2015 and 54.2% of the Company s accounts receivable at December31, 2014. 9. Concentration of Cash Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash. The Company maintains cash with financial institutions which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash. 15 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes. This discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business and operations. Our actual results may differ materially from those we currently anticipate. Overview We operate as one business segment and are a provider of comprehensive home and community based services that are primarily personal in nature, which are provided primarily in the home, and focused on the dual eligible (Medicare/Medicaid) population. Our services include personal care and assistance with activities of daily living, and adult day care. Our consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. Our payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. We currently provide home and community based services to over 33,000 consumers through 122 locations across 21 states, including 5 adult day centers in Illinois. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, we served over 35,000 and 44,000 consumers, respectively. A summary of our financial results for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014 is provided in the table below: Historically our services were provided under agreements with state and local government agencies established to meet the needs of our consumers. Our consumers are predominately dual eligible and as such are eligible to receive both Medicare and Medicaid funded home-based care. As a result of certain legislation enacted by the federal government, states are being incentivized to initiate dual eligible demonstration programs and other managed Medicaid initiatives, which are designed to coordinate the services provided through these two programs, with the overall objectives to better coordinate service delivery and over the long term to reduce costs. Increasingly states are implementing these managed care programs and as such are transitioning management of individuals such as our consumers to local and national managed care organizations. Under these arrangements the managed care organizations have an economic incentive to provide home and community based services to consumers as a means to better manage the acute care expenditures of their membership. The home and community based services we provide include assistance with bathing, grooming, dressing, personal hygiene and medication reminders, and other activities of daily living. We provide these services on a long-term, continuous basis, with an average duration of approximately 20 monthsper consumer. Our adult day centers provide a comprehensive program of skilled and support services and designated medical services for adults in a community-based group setting. Services provided by our adult day centers include social activities, transportation services to and from the centers, the provision of meals and snacks, personal care and therapeutic activities such as exercise and cognitive interaction. We utilize a coordinated care model that is designed to improve consumer outcomes and satisfaction, as well as lower the cost of acute care treatment and reduce service duplication.We believe this coordinated care model to be especially valuable to managed care organizations that have economic responsibility for both home and community services as well as acute care expenditures. Over the long term, we believe this model will be a differentiator and as a result we expect to receive increased referrals from the managed care organizations. Through our coordinated care model, we utilize our home care aides to observe and report changes in the condition of our consumers for the purpose of early intervention in the disease process, thereby preventing or reducing the cost of medical services by avoiding emergency room visits, and/or reducing the need for hospitalization. We coordinate the services provided by our team with those of other health care agencies as appropriate. Changes in consumers conditions are evaluated by appropriately trained managers and referred to either appropriate medical personnel including the consumers primary care physicians or managed care organizations for treatment and follow-up. We believe this approach to the care to our consumers and the integration of our services into the broader healthcare continuum are attractive to managed care organizations and others who are ultimately responsible for the healthcare needs and costs of our consumers and over time will increase our business with them. We are investing in technology based solutions to support and facilitate our coordinated care model.We utilize Integrated Voice Response ( IVR ) systems and smart phone applications to communicate with the homecare aides. A quarter of our employees utilize this technology and our plans are to increase the use of these software applications throughout the broader workforce. Through these applications we are able to identify changes in health conditions with automated alerts forwarded to appropriate management team for triaging and evaluation.In addition, the technology is used to record basic transaction information about each visit including: start and end times to a scheduled shift, mileage reimbursement, text messages to the homecare aide and communication of basic payroll information.Our plans for this technology include development of a web portal to provide the ability to communicate this basic information about individual clients to the managed care organizations. In addition to our focus on organic growth, we are growing through selective acquisitions which expand our presence in current markets or which facilitate our entry into new markets where the home and community business is moving to managed care organizations. We completed two acquisitions in December 2013 and June 2014 that expanded our presence in two existing markets and provided us with a base of operations in two new targeted managed care states. On January1, 2015, we acquired Priority Home Health Care, Inc., a company headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio and operating six offices in the Cleveland, Akron and Columbus areas. Additionally, on April24, 2015, we entered into a purchase agreement to acquire South Shore Home Service, Inc. and Acaring Home Care, LLC to expand into the State of New York. 16 Business As of September30, 2015, we provided our home and community based services through 122 locations across 21 states including 5 adult day centers in Illinois. Our payor clients are principally federal, state and local governmental agencies and, increasingly, managed care organizations. The federal, state and local programs under which the agencies operate are subject to legislative, budgetary and other risks that can influence reimbursement rates. We are experiencing a further transition of business from government payors to managed care organizations with which we are seeking to grow our business given our emphasis on coordinated care and the prevention of acute care. Managed care organizations are commercial insurance carriers who are under contract with various federal and state governmental agencies to manage the provision of home and community based services, improve the quality of care through prevention and provide a network for the delivery of health benefits and additional services. Their objective is to lower total health care costs by integrating the provision of home and community based services with those benefit programs responsible for the provision of acute care services to their consumers. We are also seeking to grow our private duty business. Our commercial insurance carrier payor clients are typically for-profit companies and are continuously seeking opportunities to control costs. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014 our payor revenue mix was: We derive a significant amount of our net service revenues from our operations in Illinois, which represented 60.4% and 60.0% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Net service revenues from our operations in Illinois represented 59.1% and 60.8% of our total net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. A significant amount of our net service revenues are derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 50.0% and 52.1% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 48.6 % and 53.7% of our total net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We measure the performance of our business using a number of different metrics, including billable hours, billable hours per business day, revenues per billable hour and the number of consumers, or census. Components of our Statements of Income Net Service Revenues We generate net service revenues by providing our services directly to consumers and primarily on an hourly basis. We receive payment for providing such services from our payor clients, including federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. Net service revenues are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate which is either contractual or fixed by legislation or contract, and recognized as net service revenues at the time services are rendered. Cost of Service Revenues We incur direct care wages, payroll taxes and benefit-related costs in connection with providing our services. We also provide workers compensation and general liability coverage for these employees. Employees are also reimbursed for their travel time and related travel costs. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses include our costs for operating our network of local agencies and our centralized support center. Our agency expenses consist of costs for supervisory personnel, our community care supervisors and office administrative costs.Personnel costs include wages, payroll taxes, and employee benefits.Facility costs including rents, utilities, postage, telephone and office expenses.Our centralized support center includes costs for accounting, information systems including software development, human resources, billing and collections, contracting, marketing, our contact center and executive leadership.These expenses consist of compensation, including stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, employee benefits, legal, accounting and other professional fees, travel, general insurance, rents and related facility costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses We amortize our intangible assets with finite lives, consisting of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks and non-compete agreements, principally using accelerated methods based upon their estimated useful lives. Depreciable assets consist principally of furniture and equipment, network administration and telephone equipment, and operating system software. Depreciable and leasehold assets are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line method over their useful lives or, if less and if applicable, their lease terms. Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the statement of income as interest income. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of interest costs on our credit facility, capital lease obligations and other debt instruments and is reported in the statement of income when incurred. 17 Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. The differences from the federal statutory rate of 35.0% for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014 are principally due to the inclusion of state and local taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September30, 2015 Compared to Three Months Ended September30, 2014 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our unaudited consolidated results of operations. Net service revenues from state, local and other governmental programs accounted for 78.1% and 85.9% of net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Managed care organizations accounted for 18.1% and 9.5% of net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, with private duty and commercial payors accounting for the remainder of net service revenues. Net service revenues increased $2,673,000, or 3.3%, to $84,331,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $81,658,000 for the same period in 2014. The increase was primarily due to a 1.2% increase in average billable census and a 1.9% increase in revenues per billable hour. Gross profit, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, increased to 27.9% for the third quarter of 2015, compared to 26.7% for the same period in 2014. The increase was primarily due to improved workers compensation experience. General and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues increased to 21.4% for the three months ended September30, 2015, from 19.3% for the three months ended September30, 2014. General and administrative expenses increased to $18,041,000 as compared to $15,773,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses was due to an increase in costs related to wages, payroll taxes, stock compensation expenses, and increased expenditures related to legal, consulting, temporary office personnel and the ongoing installation of our new human resources and payroll information system for the three months ended September30, 2015 as compared to 2014. Depreciation and amortization, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, remained consistent at 1.4% for the third quarter of 2015 and 2014. Amortization of intangibles, which are principally amortized using accelerated methods, totaled $767,000 and $710,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 18 Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 Compared to Nine Months Ended September30, 2014 Net service revenues from state, local and other governmental programs accounted for 77.8% and 88.6% of net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Managed care organizations accounted for 18.2% and 6.8% of net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, with private duty and commercial payors accounting for the remainder of net service revenues. Net service revenues increased $21,749,000, or 9.4%, to $252,055,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $230,306,000 for the same period in 2014. The increase was primarily due to a 0.2% increase in average billable census and a 1.1% increase in revenues per billable hour. Gross profit, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, increased to 27.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, compared to 26.5% for the same period in 2014. The increase was primarily due to improved workers compensation experience. General and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues increased to 20.9% for the nine months ended September30, 2015, from 19.8% for the nine months ended September30, 2014. General and administrative expenses increased to $52,617,000 as compared to $45,576,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses was due to an increase in costs related to wages, payroll taxes and stock compensation expenses, and increased expenditures related to legal, consulting, temporary office personnel and the ongoing installation of our new human resources and payroll information system for the nine months ended September30, 2015 as compared to 2014. Depreciation and amortization, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, increased to 1.4% from 1.2% for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Amortization of intangibles, which are principally amortized using accelerated methods, totaled $2,244,000 and $1,719,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the income statement caption, interest income . We received no prompt payment interest for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. We do not anticipate that we will be owed additional prompt payment interest. 19 Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net, decreased to $163,000 from $180,000 for the three months ended September30, 2015 as compared to September30, 2014. For the nine months ended September30, 2014 as compared to September30, 2015, interest expense, net increased to $505,000 from $484,000. The increase is primarily as a result of the capital lease agreements entered into on July12, 2014, September11, 2014 and April13, 2015. See Note 5 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) Long-Term Debt for additional information. Income Tax Expense Our effective tax rates for the three months ended September30, 2015 and 2014 were 29.9% and 32.3%, respectively. The principal difference between the federal and state statutory rates and our effective tax rate is attributable to federal employment opportunity tax credits. Our effective tax rates for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014 were 33.6% and 32.6%, respectively. The principal difference between the Federal and State statutory rates and our effective tax rate is attributable to federal employment opportunity tax credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. We renewed our credit facility on the terms described below on August11, 2014. At September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, we had cash balances of $14,877,000 and $13,363,000, respectively. As of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, we had no balances outstanding under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility. After giving effect to approximately $13,496,000 and $15,464,000 of outstanding letters of credit as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, respectively, and borrowing limits based on an advanced multiple of adjusted EBITDA, we had $41,504,000 and $39,536,000 available for borrowing under the credit facility as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities represent the inflow of cash from our payor clients and the outflow of cash for payroll and payroll taxes, operating expenses, interest and taxes. Due to its revenue deficiencies and financing issues, from time to time the State of Illinois has reimbursed us on a delayed basis with respect to our various agreements including with our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging. The open receivable balance from the State of Illinois increased by $1,640,000, from $44,136,000 as of December31, 2014 to $45,776,000 as of September30, 2015. The State of Illinois payments have been sporadic and delayed in the past. Should payments become further delayed in the future, the delays could adversely impact our liquidity and may result in the need to increase borrowings under our credit facility. Since the end of the third quarter, we collected an additional $17,005,000 in accounts receivable from the State of Illinois. Credit Facility On August11, 2014, we renewed our credit facility. Our credit facility provides a $55,000,000 revolving line of credit expiring November2, 2019 and includes a $27,500,000 sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. On November6, 2014, we amended our credit facility, with retroactive effect to September30, 2014. The credit facility was amended to (i)reduce the floating interest rate from one-month LIBOR, plus a margin of 4.6% to one-month LIBOR, plus a margin of 3.5%, (ii)reduce the interest rate for loans based on term periods of one, two or three months from the LIBOR rate, plus a margin of 4.6% to the LIBOR rate, plus a margin of 3.5% and (iii)increase the allowed capital expenditures for the fiscal year ending 2014 from $5,000,000 to $7,000,000. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings are co-borrowers, and Holdings has guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of the credit facility, as amended, is based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.25, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$55,000,000 less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on the revolving line of credit may be payable at (i)a floating rate equal to the one-month LIBOR, plus a margin of 3.5%, (ii)the LIBOR rate for term periods of one, two or three months, plus a margin of 3.5% or (iii)the base rate, plus a margin of 1.6%, where the base rate is equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate , (b)the sum of the federal funds rate, plus a margin of 0.5% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with a one month interest period advanced on such day, plus a margin of 3.0%. We pay a fee equal to 0.5%per annum of the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit are charged at a rate of 2.0%per annum payable monthly. We did not have any amounts outstanding on the revolving portion of the credit facility as of September30, 2015, and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility reduced by the outstanding letters of credit was $41,504,000 and $39,536,000, as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, respectively. The credit facility contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The credit facility also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, we are in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit facility after giving effect thereto, and we have an excess availability of at least 10% of the revolving credit commitment under the credit facility), restrictions on our ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, or for the purchase price of any one acquisition to exceed $2,000,000, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. While our growth is not entirely dependent on acquisitions, if we do not have sufficient cash resources or availability under our credit facility, or we are otherwise prohibited from making acquisitions, our growth could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing or the necessary consents from our lenders. We believe the available borrowings under our credit facility which, combined with cash from operations, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs for at least the next 12months. 20 Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014: Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 Compared to Nine Months Ended September30, 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities was $8,786,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2015, compared to cash provided by operations of $7,590,000 for the same period in 2014. This increase in cash provided by operations was primarily due to an increase in accrued expenses which was offset by a decrease in accounts receivable during this period. Net cash used in investing activities was $5,712,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2015 compared to cash used in investing activities of $12,012,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2014. Our investing activities for the nine months ended September30, 2015 were $1,316,000 in purchases of property and equipment to invest in our technology infrastructure, $4,250,000 for the acquisition of Priority Home Healthcare, Inc. as previously described in Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and $146,000 for the acquisition of a customer list. Our investing activities for the nine months ended September30, 2014 were purchases of property and equipment related to our new corporate headquarters in Downers Grove, IL and a new payroll system, the acquisition of Aid& Assist as described in Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), and the acquisition of a customer list. Net cash used in financing activities was $1,560,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2015 as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $2,981,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2014. Our financing activities for the nine months ended September30, 2015 were a $1,000,000 payment on the CHHC contingent earn-out obligation as previously described in Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), $779,000 of payments on capital lease obligations and $86,000 payment for debt issuance costs and $305,000 of cash received for the exercise of employee stock options. Our financing activity for the nine months ended September30, 2014 was primarily related to capital lease obligations to finance purchases of property and equipment related to our corporate headquarters in Downers Grove, IL. Outstanding Accounts Receivable Gross accounts receivable as of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 were approximately $82,583,000 and $72,214,000, respectively. Outstanding accounts receivable, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts, increased by $10,062,000 as of September30, 2015 as compared to December31, 2014. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily attributable to delay in payment from the state of Illinois during the third quarter of 2015. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. Our provision for doubtful accounts is estimated and recorded primarily by aging receivables utilizing eight aging categories and applying our historical collection rates to each aging category, taking into consideration factors that might impact the use of historical collection rates or payor groups, with certain large payors analyzed separately from other payor groups. In our evaluation of these estimates, we also consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. Our collection procedures include review of account aging and direct contact with our payors. We have historically not used collection agencies. An uncollectible amount is written off to the allowance account after reasonable collection efforts have been exhausted. The following tables detail our accounts receivable before reserves by payor category, showing Illinois governmental payors separately, and the related allowance amount at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014: 21 We calculate our days sales outstanding ( DSO ) by taking the accounts receivable outstanding net of the allowance for doubtful accounts divided by the total net service revenues for the last quarter, multiplied by the number of days in that quarter. Our DSOs were 86 days and 80 days at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, respectively. The DSOs for our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging, at September30, 2015 and December31, 2014 were 92 days and 85 days, respectively. We may not receive payments on a consistent basis in the near term and our DSOs and the DSO for the Illinois Department on Aging may increase. The change in the reserve as a percentage of gross accounts receivable to 5.1% as of September30, 2015 from 5.4% as of December31, 2014 is attributable to other state, local and other governmental programs and managed care organizations increase in total accounts receivable as well as improved aging. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September30, 2015, we did not have any off-balance sheet guarantees or arrangements with unconsolidated entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of the financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expense and related disclosures. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other sources and factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. We consider the items discussed below to be critical because of their impact on operations and their application requires our judgment and estimates. Revenue Recognition The majority of our revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 and 2014 are derived from Medicaid and Medicaid waiver programs under agreements with various state and local authorities. These agreements provide for a service term from one year to an indefinite term. Services are provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant state or local agency, at an hourly rate specified in the agreement or fixed by legislation. Services to other payors, such as private or commercial clients, are provided at negotiated hourly rates and recognized in net service revenues as services are provided. We provide for appropriate allowances for uncollectible amounts at the time the services are rendered. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We are paid for our services primarily by state and local agencies under Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, managed care organizations, commercial insurance companies and private consumers. While our accounts receivable are uncollateralized, our credit risk is somewhat limited due to the significance of governmental payors to our results of operations. Laws and regulations governing the governmental programs in which we participate are complex and subject to interpretation. Amounts collected may be different than amounts billed due to client eligibility issues, insufficient or incomplete documentation, services at levels other than authorized and other reasons unrelated to credit risk. Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the income statement caption, interest income. We did not receive any prompt payment interest for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. Our allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated and recorded primarily by aging receivables utilizing eight aging categories and applying our historical collection rates to each aging category, taking into consideration factors that might impact the use of historical collection rates or payor groups, with certain large payors analyzed separately from other payor groups. In our evaluation of these estimates, we also consider delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues, billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems, resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. Historically, we have not experienced any write-off of accounts as a result of a state operating with budget deficits. While we regularly monitor state budget and funding developments for the states in which we operate, we consider losses due to state credit risk on outstanding balances as remote. We believe that our recorded allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to cover potential losses; however, actual collections in subsequent periods may require changes to our estimates. Goodwill Our carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. We may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. We can elect to perform Step 0, an optional qualitative analysis, and based on the results skip the remaining two steps. In 2014, we elected to implement Step 0. The results of our Step 0 assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore we concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2014. No impairment charges were recorded for the three or nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. 22 Long-Lived Assets We review our long-lived assets and finite lived intangibles for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. To determine if impairment exists, we compare the estimated future undiscounted cash flows from the related long-lived assets to the net carrying amount of such assets. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset, generally determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows. No impairment charge was recorded for the year ended December31, 2014 or the three or nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. Indefinite-lived Assets We also have indefinite-lived assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as licenses and in certain states certificates of need to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. Our management has concluded that these assets have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets and we intend to renew the licenses indefinitely. The licenses and certificates of need are tested annually for impairment. No impairment was recorded for the year ended December31, 2014 or the three or nine months ended September30, 2015 or 2014. Workers Compensation Program Our workers compensation insurance program has a $350,000 deductible component. We recognize our obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. We monitor our claims quarterly and adjust our reserves accordingly. These costs are recorded primarily in the cost of services caption in the condensed consolidated statement of income. Under the agreement pursuant to which we acquired Addus HealthCare, claims under our workers compensation insurance program that related to December31, 2005 or earlier were the responsibility of the selling shareholders in the acquisition, subject to certain limitations. The responsibility of the selling shareholders for these claims was terminated on December29, 2014. In August 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954), Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries ( ASU 2010-24 ), which clarifies that companies should not net insurance recoveries against a related claim liability. Additionally, the amount of the claim liability should be determined without consideration of insurance recoveries. As of September30, 2015 and December31, 2014, we recorded $3,157,000 and $1,457,000 in workers compensation insurance recovery receivables and a corresponding increase in its workers compensation liability. The workers compensation insurance recovery receivable is included in our prepaid expenses and other current assets on the balance sheet. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Accounting for Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of our assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740, also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue for which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. In July 2015, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of the standard from January1, 2017, to January1, 2018, with an option that permits companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. Early application prior to the original effective date is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We are evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We have not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, Interest Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs. The amendments in this ASU require that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The recognition and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not affected by the amendments in this ASU. ASU 2015-03 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning on or after December15, 2015. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which will explicitly require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. Currently, there is no guidance in GAAP about management s responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity s ability to continue as a going concern or to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this update provide that guidance. In doing so, the amendments should reduce diversity in the timing and content of footnote disclosures. The amendments require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern by incorporating and expanding upon certain principles that are currently in U.S. auditing standards. Specifically, the amendments (1)provide a definition of the term substantial doubt , (2)require an evaluation every reporting period including interim periods, (3)provide principles for considering the mitigating effect of management s plans, (4)require certain disclosures when substantial doubt is alleviated as a result of consideration of management s plans, (5)require an express statement and other disclosures when substantial doubt is not alleviated and (6)require an assessment for a period of one year after the date that the financial statements are issued (or available to be issued). The amendments in this update are effective for the first annual period ending after December15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this update on its financial statements. 23Item1. Financial Statements ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 3 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 4 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 5 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 6 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Description of Business The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Addus HomeCare Corporation ( Holdings ) and its subsidiaries (together with Holdings, the Company or we ). The Company operates as one reportable business segment and is a provider of comprehensive home and community based personal care services, which are provided primarily in the home, and focused on the dual eligible (Medicare/Medicaid) population. The Company s personal care services provide assistance with activities of daily living, and adult day care. The Company s consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. The Company s payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. The Company currently provides home and community based services to over 32,000 consumers through 120 locations across 23 states, including 6 adult day centers in Illinois. Principles of Consolidation All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company s investment in entities with less than 20% ownership or in which the Company does not have the ability to influence the operations of the investee are accounted for using the cost method and are included in investments in joint ventures. Revenue Recognition The Company generates net service revenues by providing services directly to consumers. The Company receives payments for providing services from federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. The Company s continuing operations, which include the results of operations previously included in its home and community segment and agencies in three states previously included in its home health segment, are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate specified in agreements or fixed by legislation and recognized as revenues at the time services are rendered. Home and community based service revenues are reimbursed by state, local and other governmental programs which are partially funded by Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, with the remainder reimbursed through private duty and insurance programs. Laws and regulations governing the Medicaid and Medicare programs are complex and subject to interpretation. As a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates may change in the near term. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company establishes its allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. The Company establishes its provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In its evaluation, the Company considers other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that the Company s management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from the Company s estimates. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets by use of the straight-line method except for internally developed software which is amortized by the sum-of-years digits method. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. The estimated useful lives of the property and equipment are as follows: Goodwill The Company s carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. The Company may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. In Step 0, the Company can elect to perform an optional qualitative analysis and based on the results skip the two step analysis. In 2015, the Company elected to implement Step 0 and was not required to conduct the remaining two step analysis. The results of the Company s Step 0 assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore the Company concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2015. No impairment charges were recorded for the three months ended March31, 2016 or 2015. 7 Intangible Assets The Company s identifiable intangible assets consist of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks, state licenses and non-compete agreements. Amortization is computed using straight-line and accelerated methods based upon the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which range from two to twenty-fiveyears. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the estimated economic benefit method over the useful life and assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company would recognize an impairment loss when the estimated future non-discounted cash flows associated with the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. An impairment change would then be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of these intangible assets using the income approach. No impairment charge was recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2016 or 2015. The income approach, which the Company uses to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets (other than goodwill), is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, expected periods the assets will be utilized, appropriate discount rates and other variables. The Company bases its fair value estimates on assumptions the Company believes to be reasonable but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. The Company also has indefinite-lived intangible assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as certificates of need and licenses to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. The Company s management has concluded that certificates of need and licenses have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets, and the Company intends to renew and operate the certificates of need and licenses indefinitely. The certificates of need and licenses are tested annually for impairment. No impairment was recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2016 or 2015. Debt Issuance Costs The Company amortizes debt issuance costs on a straight-line method over the term of the related debt. This method approximates the effective interest method. Workers Compensation Program The Company s workers compensation program has a $0.4 million deductible component. The Company recognizes its obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. The future claims payments related to the workers compensation program are secured by letters of credit. Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the statement of income as interest income. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company did not receive any prompt payment interest. While the Company may be owed additional prompt payment interest, the amount and timing of receipt of such payments remains uncertain, and the Company has determined that it will continue to recognize prompt payment interest income when received. Interest Expense The Company s interest expense consists of interest costs on its credit facility and other debt instruments. Income Tax Expense The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740, also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. Stock-based Compensation The Company has two stock incentive plans, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan ) and the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2009 Plan ) that provide for stock-based employee compensation. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a graded method under the 2006 Plan and on a straight-line basis under the 2009 Plan over the vesting period of the awards based on the fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. Under the 2006 Plan, the Company historically used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of its stock based payment awards, but beginning October28, 2009 under its 2009 Plan it began using an enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes model and the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model is affected by Holdings stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. Net Income Per Common Share Net income per common share, calculated on the treasury stock method, is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. The Company s outstanding securities that may potentially dilute the common stock are stock options and restricted stock awards. Included in the Company s calculation for the three months ended March31, 2016 were 758,000 stock options outstanding, of which 131,000 were dilutive. In addition, there were 102,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, 24,000 of which were dilutive for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Included in the Company s calculation for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were 719,000 stock options outstanding, of which 200,000 were dilutive. In addition, there were 112,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, 15,000 of which were dilutive for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Estimates The financial statements are prepared by management in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) and include estimated amounts and certain disclosures based on assumptions about future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates. 8 Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company s financial instruments consist of cash, accounts receivable, payables and debt. The carrying amounts reported in the condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments. The carrying value of the Company s long-term debt with variable interest rates approximates fair value based on instruments with similar terms. The Company applies fair value techniques on a non-recurring basis associated with valuing potential impairment losses related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and also when determining the fair value of contingent considerations. To determine the fair value in these situations, the Company uses Level 3 inputs, such as discounted cash flows, or if available, what a market participant would pay on the measurement date. The Company utilizes the income approach to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets derived from acquisitions. At the date of acquisition, a contingent earn-out obligation is recorded at its fair value, which is calculated as the present value of the Company s maximum obligation based on probability-weighted estimates of achievement of performance targets defined in the earn-out agreements. The Company reviews the fair valuation periodically and adjusts the fair value for any changes in the maximum earn-out obligation based on probability-weighted estimates of achievement of certain performance targets defined in the earn-out agreements. In addition, discounted cash flows were used to estimate the fair value of the Company s investment in joint ventures. New Accounting Pronouncements In May2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue for which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. In July2015, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of the standard from January1, 2017, to January1, 2018, with an option that permits companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. Early application prior to the original effective date is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. In August2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which will explicitly require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. Currently, there is no guidance in GAAP about management s responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity s ability to continue as a going concern or to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this update provide that guidance. In doing so, the amendments should reduce diversity in the timing and content of footnote disclosures. The amendments require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern by incorporating and expanding upon certain principles that are currently in U.S. auditing standards. Specifically, the amendments (1)provide a definition of the term substantial doubt , (2)require an evaluation every reporting period including interim periods, (3)provide principles for considering the mitigating effect of management s plans, (4)require certain disclosures when substantial doubt is alleviated as a result of consideration of management s plans, (5)require an express statement and other disclosures when substantial doubt is not alleviated and (6)require an assessment for a period of one year after the date that the financial statements are issued (or available to be issued). The amendments in this update are effective for the first annual period ending after December15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this update on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by eliminating the need for entities to separate deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. This amendment is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact that ASU 2015-17 may have on its financial position and results of operations.The adoption of this standard is not expected to have an impact on the Company s financial position, results of operations or financial statement disclosures. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. The new standard establishes a right-of-use ( ROU ) model that requires a lessee to record a ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement.The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available.The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 allows for simplification of several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Under ASU 2016-09, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards) should be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. ASU 2016-09 also requires recognition of excess tax benefits regardless of whether the benefit reduces taxes payable in the current period. ASU 2016-09 further permits the withholding of an amount up to employees maximum individual tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction without resulting in a liability classification. ASU 2016-09 also requires any excess tax benefits be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity and cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes to be classified as a financing activity. ASU 2016-09 is effective for public companies for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-09 on its consolidated financial statements. 2. Acquisitions Effective February 23, 2016, the Company acquired certain assets of Lutheran Social Services of Illinois ( LSSI ) for approximately $0.1 million, in order to expand its adult day care business within the State of Illinois. The results of operations from the acquisition of LSSI is included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. The LSSI acquisition accounted for $0.1 million of net service revenues for the period ended March 31, 2016. On April 24, 2015, Addus HealthCare entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the South Shore Purchase Agreement ) with Margaret Coffey and Carol Kolar (the South Shore Sellers ), South Shore Home Health Service Inc. ( South Shore ) and Acaring Home Care, LLC ( Acaring ), pursuant to which Addus HealthCare agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding securities of each of South Shore and Acaring. On February 5, 2016, Addus HealthCare completed its acquisition of all the outstanding securities of South Shore and Acaring for a total purchase price of $20.4 million (the South Shore Purchase Price ). A portion of the South Shore Purchase Price was deposited into escrow to serve as a source of recovery for certain indemnification obligations of the South Shore Sellers. The related acquisition costs were $1.2 million and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from South Shore and Acaring are included in the Company s statements of income from the date of the acquisition. Acaring was dissolved on March 1, 2016, and its assets were transferred to South Shore. 9 The Company s acquisition of South Shore and Acaring has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets will be accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The acquisition was recorded at its fair value as of February 5, 2016. Under business combination accounting, the South Shore Purchase Price was $20.4 million and will be allocated to South Shore s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Management has preliminarily valued and allocated the purchase price as shown below.These preliminary estimates and assumptions could change during the purchase price measurement period as the Company finalizes the valuation, primarily related to taxes. Management anticipates this will be completed during the second quarter of 2016. Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for South Shore includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. It is anticipated that the net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. The South Shore acquisition accounted for $8.2 million of net service revenues for the period ended March 31, 2016. Effective November 9, 2015, the Company acquired certain assets of Five Points Healthcare of Virginia, LLC ( Five Points ), in order to further expand the Company s presence in the State of Virginia. The total consideration for the transaction was comprised of $4.1 million in cash. The related acquisition costs were $0.4 million and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from the acquisition is included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. The Company s acquisition of Five Points has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets was accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The acquisition of Five Points was recorded at its fair value as of November 9, 2015. The total purchase price was $4.1 million. Under business combination accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to Five Points net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Based upon management s valuation, the total purchase price has been allocated as follows: Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for Five Points includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. The net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. The Five Points acquisition accounted for $1.2 million of net service revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The following table contains unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statement information assuming the Five Points and the South Shore and Acaring acquisitions closed on January 1, 2015. The pro forma disclosures in the table above include adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and tax expense and acquisition costs to reflect results that are more representative of the combined results of the transactions as if South Shore and Acaring and Five Points had occurred on January 1, 2015. This pro forma information is presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be indicative of the results of operations that would have actually occurred. In addition, future results may vary significantly from the results reflected in the pro forma information. The unaudited pro forma financial information does not reflect the impact of future events that may occur after the acquisition, such as anticipated cost savings from operating synergies. Effective January1, 2015, the Company acquired Priority Home Health Care, Inc. ( PHHC ), in order to further expand the Company s presence in the State of Ohio. The total consideration for the transaction was comprised of $4.3 million in cash. The related acquisition costs were $0.5 million and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from this acquired entity are included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. 10 The Company s acquisition of PHHC has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets were accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The acquisition was recorded at its fair value as of January1, 2015. The total purchase price was $4.3 million. Under business combination accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to PHHC s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Based upon management s valuation, the total purchase price has been allocated as follows: Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for PHHC includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. The net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. The PHHC acquisition accounted for $2.0 million and $2.4 million of net service revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company had recorded a $1.3 million contingent earn-out obligation as a current liability related to its December1, 2013 acquisition of Coordinated Home Health Care, LLC. This obligation was paid during the second quarter of 2016. 11 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Company s carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare. In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. The Company can elect to perform Step 0, an optional qualitative analysis and based on the results skip the remaining two steps. In 2015, the Company elected to implement Step 0 and was not required to conduct the remaining two step analysis. In performing its goodwill assessment for 2015, the Company evaluated the following factors that affect future business performance: macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, entity-specific events, reporting unit factors and company stock price. As a result of the assessments of these qualitative factors, the Company concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair values of the reporting unit goodwill as of December31, 2015 exceed the carrying values of the unit. Accordingly, the first and second steps of the goodwill impairment test as described in ASC 350-20-35, which includes estimating the fair values of the Company, were not considered necessary. The Company did not record any impairment charges for the three months ended March 31, 2016 or 2015. The Company will perform its annual impairment test for fiscal 2016 during the fourth quarter of 2016. 12 A summary of the goodwill activity for the three months ended March 31, 2016 is provided below: Adjustments to the previously recorded goodwill are primarily credits related to amortization of tax goodwill in excess of book basis. The Company s identifiable intangible assets consist of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks, state licenses and non-compete agreements. Amortization is computed using straight-line and accelerated methods based upon the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which range from two to twenty-five years. The Company also has indefinite-lived assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as licenses and in certain states certificates of need to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. The Company has concluded these assets have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets and the Company intends to renew the licenses indefinitely. The licenses and certificates of need are tested annually for impairment using the cost approach. Under this method assumptions are made about the cost to replace the certificates of need. No impairment charges were recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2016 or 2015. The carrying amount and accumulated amortization of each identifiable intangible asset category consisted of the following at March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015: Amortization expense related to the identifiable intangible assets amounted to $1.0 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Goodwill and state licenses are not amortized pursuant to ASC Topic 350. 4. Details of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts Prepaid expenses and other current assets consisted of the following: 13 Accrued expenses consisted of the following: (1) The Company provides health insurance coverage to qualified union employees providing home and community based services in Illinois through a Taft-Hartley multi-employer health and welfare plan under Section302(c)(5) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947. The Company s insurance contributions equal the amount reimbursed by the State of Illinois. Contributions are due within five business days from the date the funds are received from the State. Amounts due of $0.4 million and $0.5 million for health insurance reimbursements and contributions were reflected in prepaid insurance and accrued insurance at March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. (2) As a condition of the sale of substantially all of the assets used in the Company s home health business to subsidiaries of LHC Group. Inc. ( LHCG ) in February 2013, the Company is responsible for any adjustments to Medicare and Medicaid billings prior to the closing. In connection with an internal evaluation of the Company s billing processes, the Company discovered documentation errors in a number of claims that it had submitted to Medicare. Consistent with applicable law, the Company voluntarily remitted $1.8 million to the U.S. government in March 2014. The Company, using its best judgment, has estimated a total of $0.8 million for billing adjustments for 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 services which may be subject to Medicare audits. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company reduced the indemnification reserve accrual by the amounts accrued for periods no longer subject to Medicare audits of $0.4 million. This amount was reflected as a reduction in general and administrative expense. (3) Accrued severance represents amounts payable to terminated employees with employment and/or separation agreements with the Company in the amount of $1.8 million. 5. Long-Term Debt Long-term debt consisted of the following: In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs (ASU 2015-03) which amends the current presentation of debt issuance costs in the financial statements. ASU 2015-03 requires an entity to present debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The recognition and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not affected by the amendments in this update. ASU 2015-03 is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015 and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted this standard on January1, 2016 and has classified the debt issuance costs as long term debt, less current portion as of March 31, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2015, debt issuance costs are included in Other Assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company had no long-term debt outstanding during the year to offset the debt issuance costs. 14 Capital Leases On July12, 2014, September11, 2014 and April13, 2015, the Company executed three 48-month capital lease agreements for $2.7 million, $1.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, with First American Commercial Bancorp, Inc. The capital leases were entered into to finance property and equipment at the Company s new corporate headquarters in Downers Grove, Illinois. The underlying assets are included in Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. These capital lease obligations require monthly payments through September2019and have implicit interest rates that range from 3.0% to 3.6%. At the end of the term, the Company has the option to purchase the assets for $1 per lease agreement. The following is an analysis of the leased property under capital leases by major classes. The future minimum payments for capital leases as of March 31, 2016 are as follows: (a) Amount necessary to reduce net minimum lease payments to present value calculated at the Company s incremental borrowing rate at lease inception. (b) Included in the balance sheet as $1.1 million of the current portion of long-term debt and $1.6 million of the long-term debt, less current portion. Senior Secured Credit Facility On November10, 2015, the Company entered into a new credit facility with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank, as agent and letters of credit issuer. The Company s credit facility provides a $75.0 million revolving line of credit, a delayed draw term loan facility of up to $25.0 million and an uncommitted incremental term loan facility of up to $50.0 million, expiring November10, 2020 and includes a $35.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The new credit facility has the same material terms as the previous agreement dated August11, 2014. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings are co-borrowers, and Holdings has guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of the Company s credit facility, is based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.25, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$75.0 million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on the revolving credit portion of our credit facility may be payable at (x) the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day plus a margin of 3.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one, two or three months advanced on the applicable day or (z)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the daily floating LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day. The Company pays a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50% per annum based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit are charged at a rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans payable quarterly. On January 12, 2016, the Company drew $10.0 million of its revolving credit line to fund growth and on-going operations. On February 5, 2016, the Company drew $22.0 million on its delayed draw term loan to fund the acquisition of South Shore. As of March 31, 2016, the Company had a total of $32.0 million outstanding on the credit facility and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $42.8 million. The Company did not have any amounts outstanding on the credit facility as of December31, 2015 and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $58.3 million. 15 The credit facility contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The credit facility also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, the Company is in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit facility after giving effect thereto, the Company has an excess availability of at least 40% of the revolving credit commitment under the credit facility and the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid in any fiscal year does not exceed $5.0 million), restrictions on the Company s ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, consummate any individual acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $25.0 million and consummate acquisitions with total purchase price in excess of $40.0 million in the aggregate over the term of the credit facility, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. 6. Income Taxes A reconciliation of the statutory federal tax rate of 35.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 is summarized as follows: 7. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings The Company is a party to legal and/or administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. It is the opinion of management that the outcome of such proceedings will not have a material effect on the Company s financial position and results of operations. On January 20, 2016, the Company was served with a lawsuit that was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against the Company and Cigna Corporation by Stop Illinois Marketing Fraud, LLC, a qui tam relator formed for the purpose of bringing this action. Plaintiff filed its amended complaint on April 4, 2016. In the action, the plaintiff alleges, inter alia, violations of the Federal False Claims Act relating primarily to allegations of violations of the federal anti-kickback statute and allegedly improper referrals of patients from our home care division to our Home Health Business which was sold in 2013. The plaintiff seeks to recover damages, fees and costs under the Federal False Claims Act including treble damages, civil penalties and its attorneys fees. The U.S. government has declined to intervene at this time. Based on the Company s review of the complaint, we believe the case will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company intends to defend the litigation vigorously. Under the current schedule in the action, plaintiff has filed on April 4, 2016, an amended complaint, and defendants motion to dismiss the amended complaint is due by June 6, 2016. The Court has stayed discovery in the action pending resolution of defendants motion to dismiss. Employment Agreements The Company has entered into employment agreements with certain members of senior management. The terms of these agreements are up to four years and include non-compete and nondisclosure provisions, as well as provide for defined severance payments in the event of termination. A substantial percentage of the Company s workforce is represented by the Service Employees International Union ( SEIU ). The Company has a national agreement with the SEIU. Wages and benefits are negotiated at the local level at various times throughout the year. These negotiations are often initiated when the Company receives increases in hourly rates from various state agencies. Upon expiration of these collective bargaining agreements, the Company may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms with these labor unions. 8. Significant Payors A substantial portion of the Company s net service revenues and accounts receivable are derived from services performed for federal, state and local governmental agencies. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 44.8% and 47.7% of the Company s net service revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The related receivables due from the Illinois Department on Aging represented 57.3% and 54.9% of the Company s accounts receivable at March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015. 9. Concentration of Cash Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash. The Company maintains cash with financial institutions which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash. 10. Subsequent Event On May 4, 2016, Addus HealthCare, together with approximately 59 other social service and healthcare providers in the State of Illinois, filed an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against certain individuals in their official capacities as agents of the Illinois Department of Human Services, the Illinois Department on Aging, the Illinois Department of Public Health, the Illinois Department of HealthCare and Family Services, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, the Illinois Department of Corrections and the Illinois Department of Central Management Services, including the Governor of Illinois. In the action, the plaintiffs, including Addus HealthCare, allege that they entered into contracts with the various defendants based in part on the Governor s proposed budget, which provided for funding for the services to be provided by plaintiffs there under. However, thereafter, the Governor vetoed all of the relevant appropriation bills. While the defendant officer and agency heads have continued to enforce such contracts, payments have not been made there under. The plaintiffs are seeking declaratory and injunctive relief against the defendant officers and agency heads for acting beyond the scope of their legal authority in entering into and enforcing contracts with no intent to perform under such contracts by failing to pay amounts due there under when due. The action also alleges that the Governor of Illinois veto of appropriations for such contracts violates the Illinois Constitution. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief to preclude the foregoing course of conduct for the rest of the fiscal year and require payment of overdue bills to prevent irreparable harm, including imperiling the State s infrastructure for delivery of human services. On May 5, 2016, the Company drew $10.0 million of its revolving credit line, described in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 5. Long-Term Debt, to fund on-going operations. Effective May5, 2016, Donald Klink ceased serving as the Company s Chief Financial Officer. BrianW. Poff will become the Company s Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer effective May10, 2016. Prior to joining Addus, from October 2015 until April 2016, Mr.Poff, age 43, was the CFO and Treasurer of Oceans Healthcare, a private equity backed, multi-state provider of behavioral healthcare. From 2011 to October 2015, he was Senior Vice President, Finance, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer for CCS Medical, a national mail order DME supply company. From March 2011 until November 2011, he served as Corporate Controller for AccentCare, a post-acute healthcare provider. Prior to that, Mr.Poff served as Division CFO-Hospice for Gentiva, Assistant Controller for Odyssey and Divisional CFO for Horizon Health and Psychiatric Solutions. 16 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes. This discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business and operations. Our actual results may differ materially from those we currently anticipate. Overview We operate as one business segment and are a provider of comprehensive home and community based personal care services, which are provided primarily in the home, and focused on the dual eligible (Medicare/Medicaid) population. Our personal care services provide assistance with activities of daily living, and adult day care. Our consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. Our payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. We currently provide personal care services to over 32,000 consumers through 120 locations across 23 states, including 6 adult day centers in Illinois. For the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, we served approximately 36,000 and 35,000 discrete consumers, respectively. A summary of our financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 is provided in the table below: Historically, our services were provided under agreements with state and local government agencies established to meet the needs of our consumers. Our consumers are predominately dual eligible and as such are eligible to receive both Medicare and Medicaid funded home-based personal care. As a result of certain legislation enacted by the federal government, states are being incentivized to initiate dual eligible demonstration programs and other managed Medicaid initiatives, which are designed to coordinate the services provided through these two programs, with the overall objectives to better coordinate service delivery and, over the long term, to reduce costs. Increasingly, states are implementing these managed care programs and as such are transitioning management of individuals such as our consumers to local and national managed care organizations. Under these arrangements the managed care organizations have an economic incentive to provide home and community based services to consumers as a means to better manage the acute care expenditures of their membership. Managed care revenues accounted for 23.1% of our revenue mix. The home and community based services we provide include assistance with bathing, grooming, dressing, personal hygiene and medication reminders, and other activities of daily living. We provide these services on a long-term, continuous basis, with an average duration of approximately 21 monthsper consumer. Our adult day centers provide a comprehensive program of skilled and support services and designated medical services for adults in a community-based group setting. Services provided by our adult day centers include social activities, transportation services to and from the centers, the provision of meals and snacks, personal care and therapeutic activities such as exercise and cognitive interaction. Our model is designed to improve consumer outcomes and satisfaction, as well as lower the cost of acute care treatment and reduce service duplication.We believe our model to be especially valuable to managed care organizations that have economic responsibility for both home and community services as well as acute care expenditures. Over the long term, we believe our model will be a differentiator and as a result we expect to receive increased referrals from managed care organizations. We utilize our home care aides to observe and report changes in the condition of our consumers for the purpose of early intervention in the disease process, thereby preventing or reducing the cost of medical services by avoiding emergency room visits, and/or reducing the need for hospitalization. We coordinate the services provided by our team with those of other health care agencies as appropriate. Changes in consumers conditions are evaluated by appropriately trained managers and referred to either appropriate medical personnel including the consumers primary care physicians or managed care organizations for treatment and follow-up. We believe this approach to the care of our consumers and the integration of our services into the broader healthcare continuum are attractive to managed care organizations and others who are ultimately responsible for the healthcare needs and costs of our consumers, and over time will increase our business with them. We utilize Interactive Voice Response ( IVR ) systems and smart phone applications to communicate with the homecare aides. Through these applications we are able to identify changes in health conditions with automated alerts forwarded to appropriate management team for triaging and evaluation.In addition, the technology is used to record basic transaction information about each visit including start and end times to a scheduled shift, mileage reimbursement, text messages to the homecare aide and communication of basic payroll information. In addition to our focus on organic growth, we are growing through selective acquisitions which expand our presence in current markets or which facilitate our entry into new markets where the home and community based business is moving to managed care organizations. We completed seven acquisitions during the period from December2013 through February 2016. Business As of March 31, 2016, we provided our home and community based services through 120 locations across 23 states including 6 adult day centers in Illinois. Our payor clients are principally federal, state and local governmental agencies and, increasingly, managed care organizations. The federal, state and local programs under which the agencies operate are subject to legislative, budgetary and other risks that can influence reimbursement rates. We are experiencing a further transition of business from government payors to managed care organizations with which we are seeking to grow our business given our emphasis on coordinated care and the prevention of acute care. Managed care organizations are commercial insurance carriers who are under contract with various federal and state governmental agencies to manage a full continuum of care, improve the quality of care through prevention and provide a network for the delivery of health benefits and additional services. Their objective is to lower total health care costs by integrating the provision of home and community based services with those benefit programs responsible for the provision of acute care services to their consumers. We are also seeking to grow our private duty business. Our commercial insurance carrier payor clients are typically for-profit companies and are continuously seeking opportunities to control costs. 17 For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 our payor revenue mix was: We derive a significant amount of our net service revenues from our operations in Illinois, which represented 54.8% and 58.1% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. A significant amount of our net service revenues are derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 44.8% and 47.7% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We measure the performance of our business using a number of different metrics, including billable hours, billable hours per business day, revenues per billable hour and the number of consumers, or census. The increase in managed care organization revenue is mainly attributable to the South Shore acquisition. Components of our Statements of Income Net Service Revenues We generate net service revenues from continuing operations by providing our services directly to consumers and primarily on an hourly basis. We receive payment for providing such services from our payor clients, including federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. Net service revenues from continuing operations are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate which is either contractual or fixed by legislation or contract, and recognized as net service revenues from continuing operations at the time services are rendered. Cost of Service Revenues We incur direct care wages, payroll taxes and benefit-related costs from continuing operations in connection with providing our services. We also provide workers compensation and general liability coverage for these employees. Employees are also reimbursed for their travel time and related travel costs. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses from continuing operations include our costs for operating our network of local agencies and our centralized support center. Our agency expenses from continuing operations consist of costs for supervisory personnel, our community care supervisors and office administrative costs.Personnel costs include wages, payroll taxes, and employee benefits.Facility costs including rents, utilities, postage, telephone and office expenses.Our centralized support center includes costs for accounting, information systems including software development, human resources, billing and collections, contracting, marketing, our contact center and executive leadership.These expenses consist of compensation, including stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, employee benefits, legal, accounting and other professional fees, travel, general insurance, rents and related facility costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses We amortize our intangible assets with finite lives, consisting of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks and non-compete agreements, principally using accelerated methods based upon their estimated useful lives. Depreciable assets consist principally of furniture and equipment, network administration and telephone equipment, and operating system software. Depreciable and leasehold assets are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line method over their useful lives or, if less and if applicable, their lease terms. Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income from continuing operations is recognized when received and reported in the statement of income as interest income. Interest Expense Interest expense from continuing operations consists of interest costs on our credit facility, capital lease obligations and other debt instruments and is reported in the statement of income when incurred. Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 our federal statutory rate is 35.0%. The effective income tax rate is 32.9% and 37.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015.The difference between federal statutory and effective income tax rates is principally due to the inclusion of state taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. 18 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations. Net service revenues from state, local and other governmental programs accounted for 73.2% and 77.7% of net service revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Managed care organizations accounted for 23.1% and 18.3% of net service revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, with private duty and commercial payors accounting for the remainder of net service revenues. A significant amount of our net service revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 are derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 44.8% and 47.7% respectively, of our total net service revenues. Net service revenues increased $10.7 million, or 13.0%, to $92.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to $81.9 million for the same period in 2015. The increase was primarily due to the South Shore acquisition and a 1.9% increase in average billable census and a 0.4% increase in revenues per billable hour. Gross profit, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, decreased to 26.3% for the first quarter of 2016, compared to 26.8% for the same period in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to recent acquisitions with lower margin business. General and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues increased to 24.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2016, from 20.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2015. General and administrative expenses increased to $22.2 million as compared to $17.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to $2.2 million severance expense for terminated employees with employment and separation agreements, $0.9 million restructuring expenses for the discontinuation of use of certain internally developed software and a $0.6 million increase in bad debt expense and a $0.4 million acquisition costs for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to 2015. Depreciation and amortization, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, increased to 1.6% for the first quarter of 2016 as compared to 1.4% for the first quarter of 2015. This increase is primarily a result of amortization of intangibles acquired through acquisitions. Amortization of intangibles, which are principally amortized using accelerated methods, totaled $1.0 million and $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. While we maybe owed prompt payment interest, the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the income statement caption, interest income . We received no prompt payment interest for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net, increased to $0.4 million from $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015. The increase is primarily as a result of interest on draws of the senior credit facility during the first quarter of 2016. See Note 5 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) Long-Term Debt for additional information. 19 Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 our federal statutory rate is 35.0%. The effective income tax rate is 32.9% and 37.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015.The difference between our federal statutory and effective income tax rates are principally due to the inclusion of state taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. We entered into a credit facility on the terms described below on November10, 2015. At March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015, we had cash balances of $9.1 million and $4.1 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2016, we had a total of $32.0 million outstanding on the credit facility. As ofDecember31, 2015, we had no balances outstanding under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility. After giving effect to the amount drawn on our credit facility, approximately $16.7 million and $16.7 million of outstanding letters of credit as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively and borrowing limits based on an advance multiple of adjusted EBITDA, we had $42.8 million and $58.3 million available for borrowing under the credit facility as of March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities represent the inflow of cash from our payor clients and the outflow of cash for payroll and payroll taxes, operating expenses, interest and taxes. Due to its revenue deficiencies and financing issues, from time to time the State of Illinois has reimbursed us on a delayed basis with respect to our various agreements including with our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging. The open receivable balance from the State of Illinois increased by $13.9 million from $50.4 million as of December31, 2015 to $64.3 million as of March 31, 2016. The State of Illinois payments have been sporadic and delayed in the past and continue to be delayed, and the State of Illinois has yet to adopt a budget for fiscal year 2016. We cannot predict when the State of Illinois will adopt its 2016 budget. Without a budget and absent a court order compelling payment, the State is not authorized to pay for the non-Medicaid consumers served by the Company. These consumers represent approximately $60.0 million of our total company annual revenue. Should payments continue to be delayed in the future or become further delayed, or the budget impasse is not resolved in the near term, the delays could adversely impact our liquidity and will result in the need to increase borrowings under our credit facility or other liquidity options. Credit Facility On November10, 2015, we entered into a new credit facility with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank, as agent and letters of credit issuer. Our credit facility provides a $75.0 million revolving line of credit, a delayed draw term loan facility of up to $25.0 million and an uncommitted incremental term loan facility of up to $50.0 million, expiring November10, 2020 and includes a $35.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The new credit facility has the same material terms as the previous agreement dated August11, 2014. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings are co-borrowers, and Holdings has guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility is based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.25, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$75.0 million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on the revolving credit portion of our credit facility may be payable at (x) the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day plus a margin of 3.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one, two or three months advanced on the applicable day or (z)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the daily floating LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day. We pay a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50% per annum based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit are charged at a rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans payable quarterly. On January12, 2016, we drew $10.0 million of our revolving credit line to fund on-going operations. On February 5, 2016, we drew $22.0 million on our delayed draw term loan to fund the acquisition of South Shore. As of March 31, 2016, we had $32.0 million outstanding on the credit facility and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $42.8 million. We did not have any amounts outstanding on the credit facility as of December31, 2015 and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $58.3 million. The credit facility contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The credit facility also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, we are in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit facility after giving effect thereto, we have an excess availability of at least 40% of the revolving credit commitment under the credit facility and the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid in any fiscal year does not exceed $5.0 million), restrictions on our ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, consummate any individual acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $25.0 million and consummate acquisitions with total purchase price in excess of $40.0 million in the aggregate over the term of the credit facility, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. While our growth is not entirely dependent on acquisitions, if we do not have sufficient cash resources or availability under our credit facility, or we are otherwise prohibited from making acquisitions, our growth could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing or the necessary consents from our lenders. We believe the available borrowings under our credit facility which, combined with cash from operations, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs for at least the next 12months. 20 Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Net cash used in operating activities was $6.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to cash used in operations of $0.9 million for the same period in 2015. This increase in cash provided by operations was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable during this period resulting from the delay in payments from the State of Illinois. Net cash used in investing activities was $20.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to cash used in investing activities of $5.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Our investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $20.4 million for the acquisition of South Shore as previously described in Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and $0.3 million in purchases of property and equipment to invest in our technology infrastructure . Our investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $4.3 million for the acquisition of PHHC as previously described in Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and $0.7 million in purchases of property and equipment to invest in our technology infrastructure. Net cash provided by financing activities was $31.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Our financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were a $32.0 million draw on our credit facility to fund on-going operations and the acquisitions of South Shore, $0.3 million of payments on long-term debt ,$0.2 million payment for debt issuance costs and $0.2 million of cash received for the exercise of employee stock options. Our financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were $0.2 million for payments on capital lease obligations and $0.2 million of cash received for the exercise of stock options. Outstanding Accounts Receivable Gross accounts receivable as of March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015 were approximately $111.2 million and $89.8 million, respectively. Outstanding accounts receivable, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts, increased by $20.8 million as of March 31, 2016 as compared to December31, 2015. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily attributable to delay in non-medicaid payment from the State of Illinois during the second half of 2015 and first quarter of 2016, accounts receivable acquired as part of our acquisitions and the general increase in our overall business. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. Our collection procedures include review of account aging and direct contact with our payors.Collection agencies may be used with private pay clients when deemed necessary. An uncollectible amount is written off to the allowance account after reasonable collection efforts have been exhausted. The following tables detail our accounts receivable before reserves by payor category, showing Illinois governmental payors separately, and the related allowance amount at March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015: 21 We calculate our days sales outstanding ( DSO ) by taking the accounts receivable outstanding net of the allowance for doubtful accounts divided by the total net service revenues for the last quarter, multiplied by the number of days in that quarter. Our DSOs were 104 days and 92 days at March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. The DSOs for our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging, at March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015 were 132 days and 101 days, respectively. We may not receive payments on a consistent basis in the near term and our DSOs and the DSO for the Illinois Department on Aging will likely increase until the budget impasse is resolved. The change in the reserve as a percentage of gross accounts receivable to 4.9% as of March 31, 2016 from 5.4% as of December31, 2015 is attributable to improved DSOs and cash collection for payors other than the State of Illinois. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2016, we did not have any off-balance sheet guarantees or arrangements with unconsolidated entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of the financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expense and related disclosures. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other sources and factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. We consider the items discussed below to be critical because of their impact on operations and their application requires our judgment and estimates. Revenue Recognition The majority of our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 are derived from Medicaid and Medicaid waiver programs under agreements with various state and local authorities. These agreements provide for a service term from one year to an indefinite term. Services are provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant state or local agency, at an hourly rate specified in the agreement or fixed by legislation. Services to other payors, such as private or commercial clients, are provided at negotiated hourly rates and recognized in net service revenues as services are provided. We provide for appropriate allowances for uncollectible amounts at the time the services are rendered. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We are paid for our services primarily by state and local agencies under Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, managed care organizations, commercial insurance companies and private consumers. While our accounts receivable are uncollateralized, our credit risk is somewhat limited due to the significance of governmental payors to our results of operations. Laws and regulations governing the governmental programs in which we participate are complex and subject to interpretation. Amounts collected may be different than amounts billed due to client eligibility issues, insufficient or incomplete documentation, services at levels other than authorized and other reasons unrelated to credit risk. Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the income statement caption, interest income. We did not receive any prompt payment interest for the three months ended March 31, 2016 or 2015. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. Goodwill Our carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. We may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. We can elect to perform Step 0, an optional qualitative analysis, and based on the results skip the remaining two steps. In 2015, we elected to implement Step 0. The results of our Step 0 assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore we concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2015. No impairment charges were recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2016 or 2015. 22 Long-Lived Assets We review our long-lived assets and finite lived intangibles for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. To determine if impairment exists, we compare the estimated future undiscounted cash flows from the related long-lived assets to the net carrying amount of such assets. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset, generally determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows. No impairment charge was recorded for the year ended December31, 2015 or the three months ended March 31, 2016 or 2015. Indefinite-lived Assets We also have indefinite-lived assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as licenses and in certain states certificates of need to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. Our management has concluded that these assets have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets and we intend to renew the licenses indefinitely. The licenses and certificates of need are tested annually for impairment. No impairment was recorded for the year ended December31, 2015 or the three months ended March 31, 2016 or 2015. Workers Compensation Program Our workers compensation insurance program has a $0.4 million deductible component. We recognize our obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. We monitor our claims quarterly and adjust our reserves accordingly. These costs are recorded primarily in the cost of services caption in the condensed consolidated statement of income. Under the agreement pursuant to which we acquired Addus HealthCare, claims under our workers compensation insurance program that related to December31, 2005 or earlier were the responsibility of the selling shareholders in the acquisition, subject to certain limitations. The responsibility of the selling shareholders for these claims was terminated on December29, 2014. In August 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954), Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries ( ASU 2010-24 ), which clarifies that companies should not net insurance recoveries against a related claim liability. Additionally, the amount of the claim liability should be determined without consideration of insurance recoveries. As of March 31, 2016 and December31, 2015, we recorded $1.3 million and $1.3 million in workers compensation insurance recovery receivables and a corresponding increase in its workers compensation liability. The workers compensation insurance recovery receivable is included in our prepaid expenses and other current assets on the balance sheet. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Accounting for Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of our assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740, also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. Stock-based Compensation We have two stock incentive plans, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan ) and the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2009 Plan ) that provide for stock-based employee compensation. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a graded method under the 2006 Plan and on a straight-line basis under the 2009 Plan over the vesting period of the awards based on the fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. Under the 2006 Plan, we historically used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock based payment awards, but beginning October28, 2009 under our 2009 Plan we began using an enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes model and the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model is affected by Holdings stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. New Accounting Pronouncements In May2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue for which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. In July2015, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of the standard from January1, 2017, to January1, 2018, with an option that permits companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. Early application prior to the original effective date is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We are evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of the standard on our ongoing financial reporting. In August2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which will explicitly require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. Currently, there is no guidance in GAAP about management s responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity s ability to continue as a going concern or to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this update provide that guidance. In doing so, the amendments should reduce diversity in the timing and content of footnote disclosures. The amendments require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern by incorporating and expanding upon certain principles that are currently in U.S. auditing standards. Specifically, the amendments (1)provide a definition of the term substantial doubt , (2)require an evaluation every reporting period including interim periods, (3)provide principles for considering the mitigating effect of management s plans, (4)require certain disclosures when substantial doubt is alleviated as a result of consideration of management s plans, (5)require an express statement and other disclosures when substantial doubt is not alleviated and (6)require an assessment for a period of one year after the date that the financial statements are issued (or available to be issued). The amendments in this update are effective for the first annual period ending after December15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this update on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by eliminating the need for entities to separate deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. This amendment is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016. We are currently evaluating the potential impact that ASU 2015-17 may have on our financial position and results of operations.The adoption of this standard is not expected to have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or financial statement disclosures. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. The new standard establishes a right-of-use ( ROU ) model that requires a lessee to record a ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement.The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available.We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of the new standard on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 allows for simplification of several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Under ASU 2016-09, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards) should be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. ASU 2016-09 also requires recognition of excess tax benefits regardless of whether the benefit reduces taxes payable in the current period. ASU 2016-09 further permits the withholding of an amount up to employees maximum individual tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction without resulting in a liability classification. ASU 2016-09 also requires any excess tax benefits be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity and cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes to be classified as a financing activity. ASU 2016-09 is effective for public companies for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-09 on its consolidated financial statements. 23Item1. Financial Statements ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of September 30, 2016 and December31, 2015 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 3 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME For the Three and Nine Months Ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 4 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY For the Nine Months Ended September30, 2016 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 5 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Nine Months Ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 6 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Description of Business The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Addus HomeCare Corporation ( Holdings ) and its subsidiaries (together with Holdings, the Company or we ). The Company operates as one reportable business segment and is a provider of comprehensive personal care services, which are provided primarily in the home. The Company s personal care services provide assistance with activities of daily living and adult day services. The Company s consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. The Company s payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. As of September 30, 2016, the Company provided personal care services to over 34,000 consumers through 118 locations across 24 states, including three adult day services centers in Illinois. Principles of Consolidation All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company s investment in entities with less than 20% ownership or in which the Company does not have the ability to influence the operations of the investee are accounted for using the cost method and are included in investments in joint ventures. Revenue Recognition The Company generates net service revenues by providing services directly to consumers. The Company receives payments for providing services from federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. The Company s operations are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate specified in agreements or fixed by legislation and recognized as revenues at the time services are rendered. Net service revenues are reimbursed by state, local and other governmental programs which are partially funded by Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, with the remainder reimbursed through private individuals and various insurance programs. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company establishes its allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. The Company establishes its provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In its evaluation, the Company considers other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that the Company s management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from the Company s estimates. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets by use of the straight-line method. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. The estimated useful lives of the property and equipment are as follows: Goodwill The Company s carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. The Company may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. In Step 0, the Company can elect to perform Step 0, an optional qualitative analysis, and based on the results, skip the remaining two steps. In 2015, the Company elected to implement Step 0 and was not required to conduct the remaining two step analysis. The results of the Company s Step 0 assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore the Company concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2015. No impairment charges were recorded for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. Intangible Assets The Company s identifiable intangible assets consist of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks, state licenses and non-compete agreements. Amortization is computed using straight-line and accelerated methods based upon the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which range from two to twenty-fiveyears. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the estimated economic benefit method over the useful life and assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company would recognize an impairment loss when the estimated future non-discounted cash flows associated with the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. An impairment change would then be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of these intangible assets using the income approach. No impairment charge was recorded for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. 7 The income approach, which the Company uses to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets (other than goodwill), is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, expected periods the assets will be utilized, appropriate discount rates and other variables. The Company bases its fair value estimates on assumptions the Company believes to be reasonable but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. The Company also has indefinite-lived intangible assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as certificates of need and licenses to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. The Company s management has concluded that certificates of need and licenses have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets, and the Company intends to renew and operate the certificates of need and licenses indefinitely. The certificates of need and licenses are tested annually for impairment. No impairment was recorded for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. Debt Issuance Costs The Company amortizes debt issuance costs on a straight-line method over the term of the related debt. This method approximates the effective interest method. The Company has classified the debt issuance costs as current portion of long-term debt or long term debt, less current portion as of September30, 2016. For the year ended December31, 2015, debt issuance costs are included in other assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company had no long-term debt outstanding during the year to offset the debt issuance costs. Workers Compensation Program The Company s workers compensation program has a $0.4 million deductible component. The Company recognizes its obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. The future claims payments related to the workers compensation program are secured by letters of credit. Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the statement of income as interest income. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, the Company did not receive any prompt payment interest. While the Company may be owed additional prompt payment interest, the amount and timing of receipt of such payments remains uncertain, and the Company has determined that it will continue to recognize prompt payment interest income when received. Interest Expense The Company s interest expense consists of interest costs on its credit facility, capital lease obligations and amortization of debt issuance costs and is reported in the statement of income when incurred. Other Income Other income consists of income distributions received from the investment in joint venture. The Company accounts for this income in accordance with ASC Topic 325, Investments Other. The Company recognizes the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740, also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. Stock-based Compensation The Company has two stock incentive plans that provide for stock-based employee compensation, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan ) and the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the 2009 Plan ). The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a graded method under the 2006 Plan and on a straight-line basis under the 2009 Plan over the vesting period of the awards based on the fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. Under the 2006 Plan, the Company historically used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of its stock based payment awards, but beginning October28, 2009 under its 2009 Plan the Company began using an enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes model and the enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model is affected by Holdings stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. Diluted Net Income Per Common Share Diluted net income per common share, calculated on the treasury stock method, is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. The Company s outstanding securities that may potentially dilute the common stock are stock options and restricted stock awards. Included in the Company s calculation of diluted earnings per share for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 were approximately 469,000 stock options outstanding, of which approximately 39,000 and 29,000, respectively, were dilutive. In addition, there were approximately 97,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, of which approximately 11,000 and 7,000 were dilutive for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively. Included in the Company s calculation of diluted earnings per share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 were approximately 650,000 stock options outstanding, of which approximately 217,000 and 199,000, respectively, were dilutive. In addition, there were approximately 89,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, approximately 23,000 and 5,000 of which were dilutive for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively. Estimates The financial statements are prepared by management in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) and include estimated amounts and certain disclosures based on assumptions about future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company s financial instruments consist of cash, accounts receivable, payables and debt. The carrying amounts reported in the condensed consolidated balance sheets for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments. The carrying value of the Company s long-term debt with variable interest rates approximates fair value based on instruments with similar terms. The Company applies fair value techniques on a non-recurring basis associated with valuing potential impairment losses related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and also when determining the fair value of contingent considerations. To determine the fair value in these situations, the Company uses Level 3 inputs, such as discounted cash flows, or if available, what a market participant would pay on the measurement date. 8 The Company utilizes the income approach to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets derived from acquisitions. At the date of acquisition, a contingent earn-out obligation is recorded at its fair value, which is calculated as the present value of the Company s maximum obligation based on probability-weighted estimates of achievement of performance targets defined in the earn-out agreements. The Company reviews the fair valuation periodically and adjusts the fair value for any changes in the maximum earn-out obligation based on probability-weighted estimates of achievement of certain performance targets defined in the earn-out agreements. In addition, discounted cash flows were used to estimate the fair value of the Company s investment in joint ventures. New Accounting Pronouncements In May2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue for which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. In July2015, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of the standard from January1, 2017, to January1, 2018, with an option that permits companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. Early application prior to the original effective date is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. In August2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which will explicitly require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. Currently, there is no guidance in GAAP about management s responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity s ability to continue as a going concern or to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this update provide that guidance. In doing so, the amendments should reduce diversity in the timing and content of footnote disclosures. The amendments require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern by incorporating and expanding upon certain principles that are currently in U.S. auditing standards. Specifically, the amendments (1)provide a definition of the term substantial doubt , (2)require an evaluation every reporting period including interim periods, (3)provide principles for considering the mitigating effect of management s plans, (4)require certain disclosures when substantial doubt is alleviated as a result of consideration of management s plans, (5)require an express statement and other disclosures when substantial doubt is not alleviated and (6)require an assessment for a period of one year after the date that the financial statements are issued (or available to be issued). The amendments in this update are effective for the first annual period ending after December15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this update on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by eliminating the need for entities to separate deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. This amendment is effective for annual periods beginning after December15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact that ASU 2015-17 may have on its financial position and results of operations.The adoption of this standard is not expected to have an impact on the Company s financial position, results of operations or financial statement disclosures, except the deferred tax assets will be reclassified from current to long-term assets. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases. The new standard establishes a right-of-use ( ROU ) model that requires a lessee to record a ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement.The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available.The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 allows for simplification of several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Under ASU 2016-09, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards) should be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. ASU 2016-09 also requires recognition of excess tax benefits regardless of whether the benefit reduces taxes payable in the current period. ASU 2016-09 further permits the withholding of an amount up to employees maximum individual tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction without resulting in a liability classification. ASU 2016-09 also requires any excess tax benefits be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity and cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes to be classified as a financing activity. ASU 2016-09 is effective for public companies for interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2016. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-09 on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments (Topic 326) Credit Losses. ASU 2016-13 changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. Under the new standard, entities holding financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through net income are to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. An allowance for credit losses will be a valuation account that will be deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. ASU 2016-13 is effective as of January1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements or footnote disclosures. 2. Acquisitions Effective February23, 2016, the Company acquired certain assets of Lutheran Social Services of Illinois ( LSSI ) for approximately $0.1 million, in order to expand its adult day services business within the State of Illinois. The results of operations from the acquisition of LSSI is included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. The LSSI acquisition accounted for $0.3 million and $0.7 million of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively. On April24, 2015, Addus HealthCare entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Margaret Coffey and Carol Kolar (the South Shore Sellers ), South Shore Home Health Service Inc. ( South Shore ) and Acaring Home Care, LLC ( Acaring ), pursuant to which Addus HealthCare agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding securities of each of South Shore and Acaring. On February5, 2016, Addus HealthCare completed its acquisition of all the outstanding securities of South Shore and Acaring for a total purchase price of $20.4 million (the South Shore Purchase Price ). A portion of the South Shore Purchase Price was deposited into escrow to serve as a source of recovery for certain indemnification obligations of the South Shore Sellers. The related acquisition costs were $1.3 million and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from South Shore and Acaring are included in the Company s statements of income from the date of the acquisition. Acaring was dissolved on March1, 2016, and its assets were transferred to South Shore. The Company s acquisition of South Shore and Acaring has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets was accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The acquisition was recorded at its fair value as of February 5, 2016. Under business combination accounting, the South Shore Purchase Price was $20.4 million and was allocated to South Shore s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Management has preliminarily valued and allocated the purchase price as shown below. These preliminary estimates and assumptions could change during the purchase price measurement period as the Company finalizes the valuation, primarily related to working capital adjustments. Management anticipates this will be completed during the fourth quarter of 2016. 9 Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for South Shore includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. It is anticipated that the net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. The South Shore acquisition accounted for $14.9 million and $36.7 million of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively. Effective November9, 2015, the Company acquired certain assets of Five Points Healthcare of Virginia, LLC ( Five Points ), in order to further expand the Company s presence in the State of Virginia. The total consideration for the transaction was comprised of $4.1 million in cash. The related acquisition costs were $0.4 million and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from the acquisition is included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. The Company s acquisition of Five Points has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets was accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The acquisition of Five Points was recorded at its fair value as of November9, 2015. The total purchase price was $4.1 million. Under business combination accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to Five Points net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Based upon management s valuation, the total purchase price has been allocated as follows: Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for Five Points includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. The net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. The Five Points acquisition accounted for $0.9 million and $3.1 million of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively. 10 The following table contains unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statement information assuming the Five Points and the South Shore and Acaring acquisitions closed on January1, 2015. The pro forma disclosures in the table above include adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and tax expense and acquisition costs to reflect results that are more representative of the combined results of the transactions as if South Shore and Acaring and Five Points had been acquired effective January1, 2015. This pro forma information is presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be indicative of the results of operations that would have actually occurred. In addition, future results may vary significantly from the results reflected in the pro forma information. The unaudited pro forma financial information does not reflect the impact of future events that may occur after the acquisition, such as anticipated cost savings from operating synergies. Effective January1, 2015, the Company acquired Priority Home Health Care, Inc. ( PHHC ), in order to further expand the Company s presence in the State of Ohio. The total consideration for the transaction was comprised of $4.3 million in cash. The related acquisition costs were $0.5 million and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from this acquired entity are included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. The Company s acquisition of PHHC has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets were accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The acquisition was recorded at its fair value as of January1, 2015. The total purchase price was $4.3 million. Under business combination accounting, the total purchase price was allocated to PHHC s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Based upon management s valuation, the total purchase price has been allocated as follows: Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for PHHC includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. 11 Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. The net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. The PHHC acquisition accounted for $1.8 million and $5.8 million of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and $2.5 million and $7.2 million of net service revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively. The Company had recorded a $1.3 million contingent earn-out obligation as a current liability related to its December1, 2013 acquisition of Coordinated Home Health Care, LLC. This obligation was paid during the second quarter of 2016. 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets A summary of the goodwill activity for the nine months ended September30, 2016 is provided below: Adjustments to the previously recorded goodwill are primarily credits related to amortization of tax goodwill in excess of book basis. The carrying amount and accumulated amortization of each identifiable intangible asset category consisted of the following as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015: Amortization expense related to the identifiable intangible assets amounted to $1.3 million and $3.6 million for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, respectively and $0.8 million and $2.2 million for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015, respectively. Goodwill and state licenses are not amortized pursuant to ASC Topic 350. 4. Details of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts Prepaid expenses and other current assets consisted of the following: 12 Accrued expenses consisted of the following: (1) The Company provides health insurance coverage to qualified union employees providing personal care services in Illinois through a Taft-Hartley multi-employer health and welfare plan under Section302(c)(5) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947. The Company s insurance contributions equal the amount reimbursed by the State of Illinois. Contributions are due within five business days from the date the funds are received from the State. Amounts due of $0.7 million and $0.5 million for health insurance reimbursements and contributions were reflected in prepaid insurance and accrued insurance as of September 30, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. (2) As a condition of the sale of substantially all of the assets used in the Company s home health business to subsidiaries of LHC Group, Inc. ( LHCG ) in February 2013, the Company is responsible for any adjustments to Medicare and Medicaid billings prior to the closing. In connection with an internal evaluation of the Company s billing processes, the Company discovered documentation errors in a number of claims that it had submitted to Medicare. Consistent with applicable law, the Company voluntarily remitted $1.8 million to the U.S. government in March 2014. The Company, using its best judgment, has estimated a total of $0.8 million for billing adjustments for 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 services which may be subject to Medicare audits. For the year ended December31, 2015, the Company reduced the indemnification reserve accrual by the amounts accrued for periods no longer subject to Medicare audits of $0.4 million. This amount was reflected as a reduction in general and administrative expense. (3) Accrued severance represents amounts payable to terminated employees with employment and/or separation agreements with the Company. (4) Accrued restructuring includes fees related to the termination of various contracts with outside vendors and reserves for lease commitments related to the closure of three adult day services centers in Illinois and unused contact center office space. 5. Long-Term Debt Long-term debt consisted of the following: In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs which amended the previous presentation of debt issuance costs in the financial statements. ASU 2015-03 requires an entity to present debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The recognition and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not affected by the amendments in this update. ASU 2015-03 is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2015 and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted this standard on January1, 2016 and has classified the debt issuance costs as current portion of long-term debt or long term debt, less current portion as of September30, 2016. For the year ended December31, 2015, debt issuance costs are included in other assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the Company had no long-term debt outstanding during the year to offset the debt issuance costs. 13 Capital Leases On July12, 2014, September11, 2014 and April13, 2015, the Company executed three 48-month capital lease agreements for $2.7 million, $1.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively, with First American Commercial Bancorp, Inc. The capital leases were entered into to finance property and equipment at the Company s support center. The underlying assets are included in Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. These capital lease obligations require monthly payments through September2019and have implicit interest rates that range from 3.0% to 3.6%. At the end of the term of each lease agreement, the Company has the option to purchase the assets covered by such lease agreement for $1. The following is an analysis of the leased property under capital leases by major classes. The future minimum payments for capital leases as of September 30, 2016 are as follows: (a) Amount necessary to reduce net minimum lease payments to present value calculated at the Company s incremental borrowing rate at lease inception. (b) Included in the balance sheet as $1.2 million of the current portion of long-term debt and $1.0 million of the long-term debt, less current portion. Senior Secured Credit Facility On May24, 2016, the Company entered into an amendment to its credit facility with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank, as agent and letters of credit issuer. The Company s amended credit facility provides a $100.0 million revolving line of credit, a delayed draw term loan facility of up to $25.0 million and an uncommitted incremental term loan facility of up to $50.0 million, expiring November10, 2020 and includes a $35.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The amended credit facility increased the specified advance multiple from 3.25 to 3.75 to 1.00 and the maximum permitted senior leverage ratio from 3.50 to 4.00 to 1.00. Except as modified by the May24, 2016 amendment, the amended credit facility contains the same material terms as the previous agreement dated November10, 2015. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings are co-borrowers, and Holdings has guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of the Company s credit facility, is based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.75, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$100.0 million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on our credit facility may be payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day plus a margin of 3.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one, two or three months advanced on the applicable day or (z)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the daily floating LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day. The Company pays a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%per annum based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit are charged at a rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans payable quarterly. On January 12, 2016, May 5, 2016 and July 14, 2016, the Company drew $10.0 million, $10.0 million and $10.0 million, respectively, of its revolving credit line to fund growth and on-going operations.On February 5, 2016, the Company drew $22.0 million on its delayed draw term loan to fund the acquisition of South Shore.As a result of a provision in the Company s amended credit facility, the Company was able to transfer $3.0 million of its revolving credit line debt to the Company s term loan debt on May 24, 2016. 14 During the month of August 2016, the Company fully repaid all outstanding amounts under the revolving portion of the credit facility. As of September30, 2016, the Company had a total of $24.4 million outstanding on the credit facility and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $69.5 million. The Company did not have any amounts outstanding on the credit facility as of December31, 2015 and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $58.3 million. The credit facility contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The credit facility also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, the Company is in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit facility after giving effect thereto, the Company has an excess availability of at least 40% of the revolving credit commitment under the credit facility and the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid in any fiscal year does not exceed $5.0 million), restrictions on the Company s ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, consummate any individual acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $25.0 million and consummate acquisitions with total purchase price in excess of $40.0 million in the aggregate over the term of the credit facility, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. 6. Income Taxes A reconciliation of the statutory federal tax rate of 34.3% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 35.0% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 is summarized as follows: 7. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings The Company is a party to legal and/or administrative proceedings incidental to its business. It is the opinion of management that the outcome of such pending legal and/or administrative proceedings will not have a material effect on the Company s financial position and results of operations. On January20, 2016, the Company was served with a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against the Company and Cigna Corporation by Stop Illinois Marketing Fraud, LLC, a qui tam relator formed for the purpose of bringing this action. In the action, the plaintiff alleges, inter alia, violations of the Federal False Claims Act relating primarily to allegations of violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and allegedly improper referrals of patients from our home care division to our home health business, substantially all of which was sold in 2013. The plaintiff seeks to recover damages, fees and costs under the Federal False Claims Act including treble damages, civil penalties and its attorneys fees. The U.S. government has declined to intervene at this time. Plaintiff amended its complaint on April4, 2016 to include additional allegations in support of its False Claims Act claims, including alleged violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The Company intends to defend the litigation vigorously. The Company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on June6, 2016. Plaintiff filed its opposition to the Company s motion on July22, 2016. The Company s reply in further support of the motion to dismiss was filed on August23, 2016. Briefing has now concluded and the parties await the Court s decision which may be delivered as late as February of 2017.The Court has stayed discovery in the action pending resolution of defendants motion to dismiss. The Company believes the case will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. On May4, 2016, the Company, together with 59 other social service and healthcare providers in the State of Illinois, filed an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against certain individuals in their official capacities as agents of the Illinois Department of Human Services, the Illinois Department on Aging, the Illinois Department of Public Health, the Illinois Department of HealthCare and Family Services, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, the Illinois Department of Corrections and the Illinois Department of Central Management Services, including the Governor of Illinois. On July20, 2016, a third amended complaint was filed by the plaintiffs, who now comprise 97 similarly situated providers and provider organizations. In the action, the plaintiffs, including the Company, allege that they entered into contracts with the various defendants based in part on the Governor s 15 proposed budget, which provided for funding for the services to be provided by plaintiffs thereunder. The Governor subsequently vetoed all of the relevant appropriations bills on June25, 2015 and again vetoed an appropriations bill that included funding for the contracts on June10, 2016. While the defendant officer and agency heads have continued to enforce such contracts, since August 1, 2016, the Company received an aggregate of approximately $65.4 million in payments from the State of Illinois from the stopgap budget enacted on June 30, 2016. In those actions, plaintiffs alleged the defendant officers and agency heads acted beyond the scope of their legal authority in entering into and enforcing contracts with no intent to perform under such contracts by failing to pay amounts due thereunder when due. The action also alleged that the Governor of Illinois vetoes of appropriations for such contracts violated the Illinois Constitution. Plaintiffs sought injunctive relief to payment of overdue bills to prevent irreparable harm, including imperiling the State s infrastructure for delivery of human services. On August31, 2016, the Court denied plaintiffs petitions for declaratory and injunctive relief and dismissed the actions with prejudice. Plaintiffs timely filed a notice of appeal on September30, 2016. Employment Agreements The Company has entered into employment agreements with certain members of senior management. The terms of these agreements are up to four years from the date of entry and include non-compete and nondisclosure provisions, as well as provide for defined severance payments in the event of termination. A substantial percentage of the Company s workforce is represented by the Service Employees International Union ( SEIU ). The Company has a national agreement with the SEIU. Wages and benefits are negotiated at the local level at various times throughout the year. These negotiations are often initiated when the Company receives increases in hourly rates from various state agencies. Upon expiration of these collective bargaining agreements, the Company may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms with these labor unions. 8. Severance and Restructuring During 2016, the Company took steps to streamline and simplify its operations. The expenses recorded for the three months and nine months ended September30, 2016 included costs related to terminated employees and other direct costs associated with implementing these initiatives. Other direct costs included contract termination costs, accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs. The Company incurred total pretax expenses related to these streamlining initiatives of approximately $8.3 million during the nine months ended September30, 2016. The Company expects some additional restructuring and other costs to occur, however, the amount and timing cannot be determined at this time. The following provides the components of and changes in our severance and restructuring accruals: Employee termination costs represent accrued severance payable to terminated employees with employment and/or separation agreements with the Company. The terminations resulted mainly from the closure of the contact center and other changes made to the executive leadership team made during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Restructuring and other costs comprised of costs related to lease commitments and write-offs of leasehold improvements and property and equipment resulting from the closure of three adult day services centers in Illinois and for unused contact center office space, costs related to a discontinued internally developed software product and fees for the termination of various contracts with outside vendors for the nine months ended September30, 2016. The aforementioned accruals are included in Accrued Expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the aforementioned expenses are included in General and Administrative Expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 9. Significant Payors A substantial portion of the Company s net service revenues and accounts receivable are derived from services performed for federal, state and local governmental agencies. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 42.6% and 50.0% of the Company s net service revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and 43.6% and 48.6% of the Company s net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The related receivables due from the Illinois Department on Aging represented 43.1% and 54.9% of the Company s accounts receivable at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. 10. Concentration of Cash Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash. The Company maintains cash with financial institutions which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash. 11. Subsequent Event On October 19, 2016, the Board of Directors elected Darin J. Gordon and Susan T. Weaver, M.D., FACP, to the Board. Mr.Gordon and Dr.Weaver were appointed to fill the two vacancies on the Board created by the expansion of the Board from five to seven directors as approved by the Board on October19, 2016. Mr.Gordon was appointed to serve as a member of the Audit Committee of the Company s Board and Dr.Weaver was appointed to serve as a member of the Compensation Committee of the Company s Board. 16 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes. This discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business and operations. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that include words like believes, belief, expects, plans, anticipates, intends, projects, estimates, may, might, would, should and similar expressions are intended to be forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described therein. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the risk factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016, filed on August 8, 2016, and the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2015, filed on March 11, 2016. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified, you should not rely on any forward-looking statement as a prediction of future events. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking and we do not intend to release publicly any updates or changes in our expectations concerning the forward-looking statements or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances upon which any forward-looking statement may be based, except as required by law. Overview We operate as one business segment and are a provider of comprehensive personal care services, which are provided primarily in the home. Our personal care services provide assistance with activities of daily living and adult day services. Our consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. Our payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. As of September 30, 2016, we provided personal care services to over 34,000 consumers through 118 locations across 24 states, including three adult day services centers in Illinois. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, we served approximately 45,000 and 44,000 discrete consumers, respectively. A summary of our financial results for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 is provided in the table below: Our services are predominantly provided under agreements with state and local government agencies established to meet the needs of our consumers. Our consumers are predominately dual eligible and as such are eligible to receive both Medicare and Medicaid funded home-based personal care. The federal government encourages states to initiate dual eligible demonstration programs and other managed Medicaid initiatives, which are designed to coordinate the services provided through these programs with the overall objective of improving care and reducing costs. As a result, states are increasingly implementing managed care programs and as such are transitioning management of individuals such as our consumers to local and national managed care organizations. Under these arrangements, the managed care organizations have an economic incentive to provide personal care services to consumers as a means to better manage the acute care expenditures of their membership and place in a more cost effective setting. Managed care revenues accounted for 25.8% and 18.1% of our revenue mix during the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and 24.4% and 18.2% of our revenue mix during the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The personal care services we provide include assistance with bathing, grooming, dressing, personal hygiene, medication reminders, and other activities of daily living. We provide these services on a long-term, continuous basis, with an average duration of approximately 21 monthsper consumer. Our adult day services centers provide a comprehensive program of skilled and support services and designated medical services for adults in a community-based group setting. Services provided by our adult day services centers include social activities, transportation services to and from the centers, the provision of meals and snacks, personal care, and therapeutic activities such as exercise and cognitive interaction. Our model is designed to improve consumer outcomes and satisfaction, as well as lower the cost of acute care treatment and reduce service duplication.We believe our model to be especially valuable to managed care organizations that have economic responsibility for both personal care services as well as acute care expenditures. Over the long term, we believe our model will be a differentiator and as a result we expect to receive increased referrals from managed care organizations. We utilize our home care aides to observe and report changes in the condition of our consumers for the purpose of early intervention in the disease process, thereby preventing or reducing the cost of medical services by reducing unnecessary emergency room visits and/or hospital admissions. We coordinate the services provided by our team with those of other healthcare agencies as appropriate. Changes in consumers conditions are evaluated by appropriately trained managers and referred to either appropriate medical personnel including the consumers primary care physicians or managed care organizations for treatment and follow-up. We believe this approach to the care of our consumers and the integration of our services into the broader healthcare continuum are attractive to managed care organizations and others who are ultimately responsible for the healthcare needs and costs of our consumers, and over time will increase our business with them. We utilize Interactive Voice Response ( IVR ) systems and smart phone applications to communicate with the home care aides. Through these applications we are able to identify changes in health conditions with automated alerts forwarded to an appropriate manager for triaging and evaluation.In addition, the technology is used to record basic transaction information about each visit, including start and end times for a scheduled shift, track mileage reimbursement, text messages to the home care aide and communicate basic payroll information. In addition to our focus on organic growth, we have been growing through selective acquisitions which expand our presence in current markets or which facilitate our entry into new markets where the personal care business is moving to managed care organizations. We completed seven acquisitions during the period from December2013 through February 2016. 17 Business As of September30, 2016, we provided our personal care services through 118 locations across 24 states including three adult day services centers in Illinois. Our payor clients are principally federal, state and local governmental agencies and, increasingly, managed care organizations. The federal, state and local programs under which the agencies operate are subject to legislative, budgetary and other risks that can influence reimbursement rates. We are experiencing a further transition of business from government payors to managed care organizations with whom we are seeking to grow our business given our emphasis on coordinated care and the prevention of the need for acute care. Managed care organizations are commercial insurance carriers who are under contract with various federal and state governmental agencies to provide and manage a full continuum of care. We are also seeking to grow our private pay business. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 our payor revenue mix was: We derive a significant amount of our net service revenues from our operations in Illinois, which represented 53.0% and 60.4% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net service revenues from our operations in Illinois represented 53.8% and 59.1% of our total net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. A significant amount of our net service revenues are derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 42.6% and 50.0% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 43.6% and 48.6% of our total net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The State of Illinois payments have been delayed in the past and may continue to be delayed due to a budget impasse that began in 2015. The State of Illinois did not adopt a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2016, which ended on June 30, 2016, and it has not yet adopted a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2017, which began on July1, 2016. Without a budget, the State was not authorized to pay for the non-Medicaid consumers we served. These non-Medicaid consumers represent approximately 15% of our current total annual revenues. However, stopgap budget legislation was enacted on June 30, 2016, appropriating funding for six months in addition to certain appropriations for costs incurred during fiscal year 2016.The enacted appropriations include line items for the Illinois Department on Aging s Community Care Program. Since August 1, 2016, we have received an aggregate of approximately $65.4 million of the $65.7 million owed to us by the State of Illinois in respect of our services provided through June 30, 2016 to consumers in Illinois. We measure the performance of our business using a number of different metrics, including billable hours, billable hours per business day, revenues per billable hour and the number of consumers, or census. The increase in managed care organization revenue is mainly attributable to the South Shore acquisition. Components of our Statements of Income Net Service Revenues We generate net service revenues by providing our services directly to consumers and primarily on an hourly basis. We receive payment for providing such services from our payor clients, including federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. Net service revenues are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate which is either contractual or fixed by legislation and are recognized at the time services are rendered. Cost of Service Revenues We incur direct care wages, payroll taxes and benefit-related costs in connection with providing our services. We also provide workers compensation and general liability coverage for our employees. Employees are also reimbursed for their travel time and related travel costs. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses include our costs for operating our network of local agencies and our administrative offices. Our agency expenses from operations consist of costs for supervisory personnel, our community care supervisors and office administrative costs. Personnel costs include wages, payroll taxes, and employee benefits. Facility costs including rents, utilities, postage, telephone and office expenses. Our support center and executive office includes costs for accounting, information systems, human resources, billing and collections, contracting, marketing and executive leadership. These expenses consist of compensation, including stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, employee benefits, legal, accounting and other professional fees, travel, general insurance, rents and related facility costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses We amortize our intangible assets with finite lives, consisting of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks and non-compete agreements, principally using accelerated methods based upon their estimated useful lives. Depreciable assets consist principally of furniture and equipment, network administration and telephone equipment, and operating system software. Depreciable and leasehold assets are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line method over their useful lives or, if less and if applicable, their lease terms. 18 Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, we did not receive any prompt payment interest. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of interest costs on our credit facility, capital lease obligations and amortization of debt issuance costs and is recorded when incurred. Other Income For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016, other income of $0.1million consists of income distributions received from the investment in joint venture. We account for this income in accordance with ASC Topic 325, Investments Other. We recognize the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. Our federal statutory rate was 34.3% and 35.0% for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and 34.3% and 35.0% for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The effective income tax rate was 14.6% and 29.9% for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively and 25.2 % and 33.6% for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The difference between federal statutory and effective income tax rates is principally due to the inclusion of state taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September30, 2016 Compared to Three Months Ended September30, 2015 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations. Net service revenues from state, local and other governmental programs accounted for 70.8% and 78.1% of net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Managed care organizations accounted for 25.8% and 18.1% of net service revenues for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, with private pay and commercial payors accounting for the remainder of net service revenues.A significant amount of our net service revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 42.6% and 50.0% respectively, of our total net service revenues. 19 Net service revenues increased $19.2 million, or 22.7%, to $103.5 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to $84.3 million for the same period in 2015. The increase was primarily due to the South Shore acquisition and a 5.8% increase in average billable census. Gross profit, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, decreased to 26.5% for the third quarter of 2016, compared to 27.9% for the same period in 2015. The decrease was primarily due to the South Shore acquisition which is a lower margin business. General and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues increased to 22.4% for the three months ended September30, 2016, from 21.4% for the three months ended September30, 2015. General and administrative expenses increased to $23.2 million as compared to $18.0 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to $3.7million in restructuring expense for lease commitments and write-offs of leasehold improvements and property and equipment resulting from the closure of three adult day services centers in Illinois and for unused contact center office space and fees for the termination of various contracts with outside vendors and a $1.0million increase in bad debt expense. Depreciation and amortization, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, increased to 1.7% for the third quarter of 2016 as compared to 1.4% for the third quarter of 2015. This increase is primarily a result of amortization of intangibles acquired through acquisitions. Amortization of intangibles, which are principally amortized using accelerated methods, totaled $1.3 million and $0.8 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Nine Months Ended September30, 2016 Compared to Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations. Net service revenues from state, local and other governmental programs accounted for 72.0% and 77.8% of net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Managed care organizations accounted for 24.4% and 18.2% of net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, with private pay and commercial payors accounting for the remainder of net service revenues. A significant amount of our net service revenues for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 are derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 43.6% and 48.6% respectively, of our total net service revenues. Net service revenues increased $45.0 million, or 17.8%, to $297.0 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to $252.1 million for the same period in 2015. The increase was primarily due to the South Shore acquisition and a 3.3% increase in average billable census and a 0.5% increase in revenues per billable hour. Gross profit, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, decreased to 26.1% for the nine months ended September30, 2016, compared to 27.4% for the nine months ended September30, 2015. The decrease was primarily due to the South Shore acquisition which is a lower margin business. General and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues increased to 21.9% for the nine months ended September30, 2016, from 20.9% for the nine months ended September30, 2015. General and administrative expenses increased to $65.0 million as compared to $52.6 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the following: a $5.2 million charge for lease commitments, a write-off of unamortized leasehold improvements, an equipment write-off resulting from the closure of three adult day service centers in Illinois, a write-off for unused contact center office space, a write-off related to the discontinued use of internally developed software and fees for the termination of various contracts with certain outside vendors. A $3.0 million severance expense was taken for terminated employees with employment and/or separation agreements. Additionally, there was a $2.1 million increase in bad debt expense and a $2.1 million increase in administrative employee wages, taxes and benefit costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to 2015. 20 Depreciation and amortization, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, increased to 1.7% for the nine months ended September30, 2016 as compared to 1.4% for the nine months ended September30, 2015. This increase is primarily a result of amortization of intangibles acquired through acquisitions. Amortization of intangibles, which are principally amortized using accelerated methods, totaled $3.6 million and $2.2 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Interest Income Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received. For the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, we did not receive any prompt payment interest. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net, increased to $0.6 million from $0.2 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 as compared to September30, 2015, interest expense, net increased to $1.7 million from $0.5 million. The increase is primarily the result of draws on the senior credit facility of $52.0 million during 2016. See Note 5 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) Long-Term Debt for additional information. Other Income For the three and nine months ended September31, 2016, other income of $0.1 million consists of income distributions received from the investment in joint venture. We account for this income in accordance with ASC Topic 325, Investments Other. We recognize the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. For the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 our federal statutory rate was 34.3% and 35.0%, respectively. For the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 our federal statutory rate was 34.3% and 35.0%, respectively. The effective income tax rate was 14.6% and 29.9% for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and 25.2% and 33.6% for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively.The difference between our federal statutory and effective income tax rates are principally due to the inclusion of state taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. We entered into an amendment to our credit facility on the terms described below on May 24, 2016. At September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, we had cash balances of $39.4 million and $4.1 million, respectively. As of September30, 2016, we had a total of $24.4 million outstanding on our credit facility. As ofDecember31, 2015, we had no balances outstanding on our credit facility. After giving effect to the amount drawn on our credit facility, approximately $16.7 and $16.7 million of outstanding letters of credit as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively, and borrowing limits based on an advance multiple of adjusted EBITDA, we had $69.5 million and $58.3 million available for borrowing under the credit facility as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities represent the inflow of cash from our payor clients and the outflow of cash for payroll and payroll taxes, operating expenses, interest and taxes. Due to its revenue deficiencies and financing issues, from time to time the State of Illinois has reimbursed us on a delayed basis with respect to our various agreements including with our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging. The open receivable balance from the State of Illinois decreased by $10.8 million from $50.4 million as of December31, 2015 to $39.6 million as of September30, 2016. The State of Illinois payments have been delayed in the past and may continue to be delayed due to a budget impasse that began in 2015. The State of Illinois did not adopt a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2016, which ended on June 30, 2016, and it has not yet adopted a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2017, which began on July1, 2016. Without a budget, the State was not authorized to pay for the non-Medicaid consumers we served. These consumers represent approximately 15% of our current total annual revenues. However, stopgap budget legislation was enacted on June 30, 2016, appropriating funding for six months in addition to certain appropriations for costs incurred during fiscal year 2016.The enacted appropriations include line items for the Illinois Department on Aging s Community Care Program. Since August 1, 2016, we have received an aggregate of approximately $65.4 million of the $65.7 million owed to us by the State of Illinois in respect of our services provided through June 30, 2016 to consumers in Illinois. Should payments continue to be delayed in the future or become further delayed, or the budget impasse is not resolved in the near term, the delays could adversely impact our liquidity and result in the need to increase borrowings under our credit facility or cause us to pursue other liquidity options. Credit Facility On May24, 2016, we entered into an amendment to our credit facility with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank, as agent and letters of credit issuer. Our amended credit facility provides a $100.0 million revolving line of credit, a delayed draw term loan facility of up to $25.0 million and an uncommitted incremental term loan facility of up to $50.0 million, expiring November10, 2020 and includes a $35.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The amended credit facility increased the specified advance multiple from 3.25 to 3.75 to 1.00 and the maximum permitted senior leverage ratio from 3.50 to 4.00 to 1.00. Except as modified by the May24, 2016, amendment, the amended credit facility contains the same material terms as the previous agreement dated November10, 2015. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings are co-borrowers, and Holdings has guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility is based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.75, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$100.0 million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on our credit facility may be payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day plus a margin of 3.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one, two or three months advanced on the applicable day or (z)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the daily floating LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day. We pay a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%per annum based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. 21 Issued stand-by letters of credit are charged at a rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans payable quarterly. On January12, 2016, May5, 2016 and July 14, 2016, we drew $10.0 million, $10.0 million and $10.0 million, respectively, of our revolving credit line to fund growth and on-going operations. On February5, 2016, we drew $22.0 million on our delayed draw term loan to fund the acquisition of South Shore. As a result of a provision in our amended credit facility, we were able to transfer $3.0 million of our revolving credit line debt to our term loan debt on May 24, 2016. During the month of August 2016, we fully repaid all outstanding amounts under the revolving portion of our credit facility. As of September30, 2016, we had a total of $24.4 million outstanding on our credit facility and the total availability under our credit facility was $69.5 million. We did not have any amounts outstanding on our credit facility as of December31, 2015 and the total availability under our credit facility was $58.3 million. The credit facility contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The credit facility also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, we are in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit facility after giving effect thereto, we have an excess availability of at least 40% of the revolving credit commitment under the credit facility and the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid in any fiscal year does not exceed $5.0 million), restrictions on our ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, consummate any individual acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $25.0 million and consummate acquisitions with total purchase price in excess of $40.0 million in the aggregate over the term of the credit facility, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. If we do not have sufficient cash resources or availability under our credit facility, or we are otherwise prohibited from making acquisitions under the terms of our credit facility, our growth, including our ability to grow through acquisitions, could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing or the necessary consents from our lenders under our credit facility. We believe the available borrowings under our credit facility, combined with cash from operations, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs for at least the next 12months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015: Nine Months Ended September30, 2016 Compared to Nine Months Ended September30, 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities was $31.0 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $8.8 million for the same period in 2015. This increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to significant payments on accounts receivable from the State of Illinois for our services provided through June 30, 2016 under its stopgap budget passed on June 30, 2016. Net cash used in investing activities was $21.6 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to cash used in investing activities of $5.7 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015. Our investing activities for the nine months ended September30, 2016 were $20.4 million for the acquisition of South Shore as previously described in Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and $1.2 million in purchases of property and equipment related to new office space, investments in our technology infrastructure and vehicles for adult day services centers. Our investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were $1.3 million in purchases of property and equipment to invest in our technology infrastructure, $4.3 million for the acquisition of Priority Home Healthcare, Inc. as previously described in Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and $0.1 million for the acquisition of a customer list. Net cash provided by financing activities was $26.0 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1.5 million for the nine months ended September30, 2015. Our financing activities for the nine months ended September30, 2016 were $52.0 million in draws on our credit facility to fund on-going operations and the acquisition of South Shore, a full repayment of the revolving portion of our credit facility in the amount of $27.0 million, $3.0 million of cash received for the exercise of employee stock options, $0.8 million of payments on capital lease obligations, $0.6 million payments on the term loan portion of our credit facility, $0.5 million payment for debt issuance costs and a $0.1 million payment for the contingent earn-out obligation related to our December1, 2013 acquisition of Coordinated Home Health Care, LLC. Our financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were a $1.0 million payment on the CHHC contingent earn-out obligation as previously described in Note 2 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), $0.1 million payment for debt issuance costs and $0.3 million of cash received for the exercise of employee stock options. Outstanding Accounts Receivable Gross accounts receivable as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were approximately $87.7 million and $89.8 million, respectively. Outstanding accounts receivable, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts, decreased by $4.5 million as of September30, 2016 as compared to December31, 2015. This decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to significant payments on accounts receivable from the State of Illinois for our services provided through June 30, 2016 under its stopgap budget passed on June 30, 2016, offset by an increase in accounts receivable acquired as part of our acquisitions and the general increase in our overall business. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. 22 Our collection procedures include review of account aging and direct contact with our payors.Collection agencies may be used with private pay clients when deemed necessary. An uncollectible amount is written off to the allowance account after reasonable collection efforts have been exhausted. The following tables detail our accounts receivable before reserves by payor category, showing Illinois governmental payors separately, and the related allowance amount at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015: We calculate our days sales outstanding ( DSO ) by taking the accounts receivable outstanding net of the allowance for doubtful accounts divided by the total net service revenues for the last quarter, multiplied by the number of days in that quarter. Our DSOs were 72 days and 92 days at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, respectively. The DSOs for our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging, at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 were 71 days and 101 days, respectively. We may not receive payments on a consistent basis in the near term and our DSOs and the DSO for the Illinois Department on Aging may increase despite Illinois s enactment of a stopgap budget on June30, 2016. The increase in the reserve as a percentage of gross accounts receivable to 8.2% as of September30, 2016 from 5.4% as of December31, 2015 is attributable to additional reserves needed for managed care organizations and acquisition transitions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September30, 2016, we did not have any off-balance sheet guarantees or arrangements with unconsolidated entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of the financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expense and related disclosures. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other sources and factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. We consider the items discussed below to be critical because of their impact on operations and their application requires our judgment and estimates. Revenue Recognition The majority of our revenues for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 are derived from Medicaid and Medicaid waiver programs under agreements with various state and local authorities. These agreements provide for a service term from one year to an indefinite term. Services are provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant state or local agency, at an hourly rate specified in the agreement or fixed by legislation. Services to other payors, such as private or commercial clients, are provided at negotiated hourly rates and recognized in net service revenues as services are provided. We provide for appropriate allowances for uncollectible amounts at the time the services are rendered. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We are paid for our services primarily by state and local agencies under Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, managed care organizations, commercial insurance companies and private consumers. While our accounts receivable are uncollateralized, our credit risk is somewhat limited due to the significance of governmental payors to our results of operations. Laws and regulations governing the governmental programs in which we participate are complex and subject to interpretation. Amounts collected may be different than amounts billed due to client eligibility issues, insufficient or incomplete documentation, services at levels other than authorized and other reasons unrelated to credit risk. 23 Legislation enacted in Illinois entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the statement of income as interest income. We did not receive any prompt payment interest for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. Goodwill Our carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. We may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. We can elect to perform Step 0, an optional qualitative analysis, and based on the results skip the remaining two steps. In 2015, we elected to implement Step 0, and we were not required to conduct the remaining two steps. The results of our Step 0 assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore we concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2015. No impairment charges were recorded for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. Long-Lived Assets We review our long-lived assets and finite lived intangibles for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. To determine if impairment exists, we compare the estimated future undiscounted cash flows from the related long-lived assets to the net carrying amount of such assets. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset, generally determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows. No impairment charge was recorded for the year ended December31, 2015 or the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. Indefinite-lived Assets We also have indefinite-lived assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as licenses and in certain states certificates of need to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. Our management has concluded that these assets have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets and we intend to renew the licenses indefinitely. The licenses and certificates of need are tested annually for impairment. No impairment was recorded for the year ended December31, 2015 or the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 or 2015. Workers Compensation Program Our workers compensation insurance program has a $0.4 million deductible component. We recognize our obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. We monitor our claims quarterly and adjust our reserves accordingly. These costs are recorded primarily in the cost of services caption in the condensed consolidated statement of income. Under the agreement pursuant to which we acquired Addus HealthCare, claims under our workers compensation insurance program that related to December31, 2005 or earlier were the responsibility of the selling shareholders in the acquisition, subject to certain limitations. The responsibility of the selling shareholders for these claims was terminated on December29, 2014. In August 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954), Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries ( ASU 2010-24 ), which clarifies that companies should not net insurance recoveries against a related claim liability. Additionally, the amount of the claim liability should be determined without consideration of insurance recoveries. As of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015, we recorded $0.8 million and $1.3 million in workers compensation insurance recovery receivables and a corresponding increase in workers compensation liability. The workers compensation insurance recovery receivable is included in our prepaid expenses and other current assets on the balance sheet. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of our assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740, also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. Stock-based Compensation We have two stock incentive plans, the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2006 Plan ) and the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the 2009 Plan ) that provide for stock-based employee compensation. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a graded method under the 2006 Plan and on a straight-line basis under the 2009 Plan over the vesting period of the awards based on the fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. Under the 2006 Plan, we historically used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our stock based payment awards, but beginning October28, 2009 under our 2009 Plan we began using an enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes model and the enhanced Hull-White Trinomial model is affected by Holdings stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. New Accounting Pronouncements In May2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue for which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. In July2015, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of the standard from January1, 2017, to January1, 2018, with an option that permits companies to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. Early application prior to the original effective date is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We are evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of the standard on our ongoing financial reporting. 24 In August2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern, which will explicitly require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. Currently, there is no guidance in GAAP about management s responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entity s ability to continue as a going concern or to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments in this update provide that guidance. In doing so, the amendments should reduce diversity in the timing and content of footnote disclosures. The amendments require management to assess an entity s ability to continue as a going concern by incorporating and expanding upon certain principles that are currently in U.S. auditing standards. Specifically, the amendments (1)provide a definition of the term substantial doubt , (2)require an evaluation every reporting period including interim periods, (3)provide principles for considering the mitigating effect of management s plans, (4)require certain disclosures when substantial doubt is alleviated as a result of consideration of management s plans, (5)require an express statement and other disclosures when substantial doubt is not alleviated and (6)require an assessment for a period of one year after the date that the financial statements are issued (or available to be issued). The amendments in this update are effective for the first annual period ending after December15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this update on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by eliminating the need for entities to separate deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. This amendment is effective for annual periods beginning after December15, 2016. We are currently evaluating the potential impact that ASU 2015-17 may have on our financial position and results of operations.The adoption of this standard is not expected to have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or financial statement disclosures. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases. The new standard establishes a right-of-use ( ROU ) model that requires a lessee to record a ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement.The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available.We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of the new standard on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 allows for simplification of several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Under ASU 2016-09, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards) should be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. ASU 2016-09 also requires recognition of excess tax benefits regardless of whether the benefit reduces taxes payable in the current period. ASU 2016-09 further permits the withholding of an amount up to employees maximum individual tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction without resulting in a liability classification. ASU 2016-09 also requires any excess tax benefits be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity and cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes to be classified as a financing activity. ASU 2016-09 is effective for public companies for interim and annual periods beginning after December15, 2016. We are currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-09 on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments (Topic 326) Credit Losses. ASU 2016-13 changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. Under the new standard, entities holding financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through net income are to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. An allowance for credit losses will be a valuation account that will be deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. ASU 2016-13 is effective as of January1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or footnote disclosures. 25Item1. Financial Statements ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 3 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME For the Three Months Ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 4 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY For the Three Months Ended March31, 2017 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 5 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Three Months Ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 6 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Description of Business The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Addus HomeCare Corporation ( Holdings ) and its subsidiaries (together with Holdings, the Company or we ). The Company operates as one reportable business segment and is a provider of comprehensive personal care services, which are provided principally in the home. The Company s personal care services provide assistance with activities of daily living. The Company s consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. The Company s payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. As of March31, 2017, the Company provided personal care services to over 34,000 consumers through 111 locations across 24 states. Principles of Consolidation All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company s investment in entities with less than 20% ownership or in which the Company does not have the ability to influence the operations of the investee are accounted for using the cost method and are included in investments in joint ventures. Revenue Recognition The Company generates net service revenues by providing services directly to consumers. The Company receives payments for providing services from federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. The Company s operations are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate specified in agreements or fixed by legislation and recognized as revenues at the time services are rendered. Personal care service revenues are reimbursed by state, local and other governmental programs which are partially funded by Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, with the remainder reimbursed through insurance programs and private pay. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company establishes its allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. The Company establishes its provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In its evaluation, the Company considers other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that the Company s management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from the Company s estimates. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets by use of the straight-line method. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. The estimated useful lives of the property and equipment are as follows: Goodwill The Company s carrying value of goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. The Company may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. In Step 0, the Company can elect to perform an optional qualitative analysis and based on the results skip the two step analysis. In 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Company elected to implement Step 0 and was not required to conduct the remaining two step analysis. The results of the Company s Step 0 assessments indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore the Company concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2016. No impairment charges were recorded for the three months ended March31, 2017 or 2016. Intangible Assets The Company s identifiable intangible assets consist of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks, state licenses and non-compete agreements. Amortization is computed using straight-line and accelerated methods based upon the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which range from two to twenty-fiveyears. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the estimated economic benefit method over the useful life and assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company would recognize an impairment loss when the estimated future non-discounted cash flows associated with the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. An impairment charge would then be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of these intangible assets using the income approach. No impairment charge was recorded for the three months ended March31, 2017 or 2016. The income approach, which the Company uses to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets (other than goodwill), is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, expected periods the assets will be utilized, appropriate discount rates and other variables. The Company bases its fair value estimates on assumptions the Company believes to be reasonable but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. 7 The Company also has indefinite-lived intangible assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as certificates of need and licenses to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. The Company s management has concluded that certificates of need and licenses have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets, and the Company intends to renew and operate the certificates of need and licenses indefinitely. The certificates of need and licenses are tested annually for impairment. No impairment was recorded for the three months ended March31, 2017 or 2016. Debt Issuance Costs The Company amortizes debt issuance costs on a straight-line method over the term of the related debt. This method approximates the effective interest method. The Company has classified the debt issuance costs as current portion of long-term debt or long term debt, less current portion as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016. Workers Compensation Program The Company s workers compensation program has a $0.4million deductible component. The Company recognizes its obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. The future claims payments related to the workers compensation program are secured by letters of credit. Interest Income Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the statement of income as interest income. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, the Company did not receive any prompt payment interest. While the Company may be owed additional prompt payment interest, the amount and timing of receipt of such payments remains uncertain, and the Company has determined that it will continue to recognize prompt payment interest income when received. Interest Expense The Company s interest expense consists of interest and unused credit line fees on its credit facility, capital lease obligations and amortization of debt issuance costs and is reported in the statement of income when incurred. Other Income Other income consists of income distributions received from the investment in joint venture. The Company accounts for this income in accordance with ASC Topic 325, Investments Other. The Company recognizes the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740, also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 allows for simplification of several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Under ASU 2016-09, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards) should be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. ASU 2016-09 also requires recognition of excess tax benefits regardless of whether the benefit reduces taxes payable in the current period. ASU 2016-09 further permits the withholding of an amount up to employees maximum individual tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction without resulting in a liability classification. ASU 2016-09 also requires any excess tax benefits be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity and cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes to be classified as a financing activity. The Company adopted this standard on January1, 2017 on a prospective basis. As a result, for the three months ended March31, 2017, the Company recorded an excess tax benefit of $26.3 thousand within income tax expense on its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Stock-based Compensation The Company currently has one active stock incentive plan, the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the 2009 Plan ), that provides for stock-based employee compensation. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis under the 2009 Plan over the vesting period of the equity awards based on the grant date fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. From October28, 2009 to December31, 2016, the Company utilized the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial Model to value the Company s options. Beginning January1, 2017, the Company began utilizing the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model to value the Company s options, as the Company believes it is a more widely accepted and understood valuation model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes Model and the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial Model is affected by the Company s stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. Diluted Net Income Per Common Share Diluted net income per common share, calculated on the treasury stock method, is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. The Company s outstanding securities that may potentially dilute the common stock are stock options and restricted stock awards. Included in the Company s calculation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March31, 2017 were approximately 470,000 stock options outstanding, of which approximately 96,000 were dilutive. In addition, there were approximately 143,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, 50,000 of which were dilutive for the three months ended March31, 2017. Included in the Company s calculation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March31, 2016 were approximately 758,000 stock options outstanding, of which approximately 131,000 were dilutive. In addition, there were approximately 102,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, 24,000 of which were dilutive for the three months ended March31, 2016. Estimates The financial statements are prepared by management in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) and include estimated amounts and certain disclosures based on assumptions about future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Company s financial instruments consist of cash, accounts receivable, payables and debt. The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments. The carrying value of the Company s long-term debt with variable interest rates approximates fair value based on instruments with similar terms. The Company applies fair value techniques on a non-recurring basis associated with valuing potential impairment losses related to goodwill and indefinite-lived 8 intangible assets and also when determining the fair value of contingent considerations. To determine the fair value in these situations, the Company uses Level3 inputs, defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists; therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions, such as discounted cash flows, or if available, what a market participant would pay on the measurement date. The Company utilizes the income approach to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets derived from acquisitions. At the date of acquisition, a contingent earn-out obligation is recorded at its fair value, which is calculated as the present value of the Company s maximum obligation based on probability-weighted estimates of achievement of performance targets defined in the earn-out agreements. The Company reviews the fair valuation periodically and adjusts the fair value for any changes in the maximum earn-out obligation based on probability-weighted estimates of achievement of certain performance targets defined in the earn-out agreements. In addition, discounted cash flows were used to estimate the fair value of the Company s investment in joint ventures Going Concern In connection with the preparation of the financial statements for the three months ended March31, 2017, the Company conducted an evaluation as to whether there were conditions and events, considered in the aggregate, which raised substantial doubt as to the entity s ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date of the issuance, or the date of availability, of the financial statements to be issued. The evaluation concluded that there did not appear to be evidence of substantial doubt of the entity s ability to continue as a going concern. New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and will be effective for the Company as of January1, 2018. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or modified retrospective (cumulative effect) transition method and we have not yet selected which transition method we will apply. The Company s evaluation of ASU 2014-09 is not complete. The FASB has issued and may issue in the future, interpretative guidance, which may cause the Company s evaluation to change. The Company has completed an initial review to determine the impact ASU 2014-09 and its subsequent updates through December31, 2016 will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements or financial statement disclosures upon adoption. Based on the Company s preliminary review, it believes that the timing and measurement of revenue for its customers will be similar to its current revenue recognition. However, this view is preliminary and could change based on the detailed analysis associated with the conversion and implementation phases of the Company s ASU 2014-09 project. The Company will complete its assessment during 2017. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases which replaces existing leasing rules with a comprehensive lease measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. ASU 2016-02 will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as liabilities, with corresponding right- of-use assets and is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2018, subject to early adoption. For income statement recognition purposes, leases will be classified as either a finance or an operating lease. The Company will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. Upon initial evaluation, the Company believes that the new standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Balance Sheets but it will not affect our liquidity. The Company is continuing to evaluate other potential impacts to its financial statements and accounting systems including whether the Company will need to secure new software to account for the change in accounting for leases. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-13, Financial Instruments (Topic 326) Credit Losses. ASU 2016-13 changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. Under the new standard, entities holding financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through net income are to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. An allowance for credit losses will be a valuation account that will be deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. ASU 2016-13 is effective asof January1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This standardamends and adjusts how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years, and will require adoption on a retrospective basis unless impracticable. If impracticable the Company would be required to apply the amendments prospectively as of the earliest date possible. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that ASU 2016-15 will have on its statement of financial position or financial statement disclosures. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. The new guidance eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (i.e., Step 2 of the current goodwill impairment test) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Instead, entities will record an impairment charge based on the excess of a reporting unit s carrying amount over its fair value (i.e., measure the charge based on the current Step 1). ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual and any interim impairment tests for periods beginning after December15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the provisions of ASU 2017-04 to determine how its goodwill impairment testing will be impacted and whether it may elect to adopt ASU 2017-04 prior to the stated effective date. 2. Sale of Adult Day Services Centers In order to focus on providing services to consumers in their homes, effective March1, 2017, the Company ceased the adult day services business and completed its sale of substantially all of the assets used in three adult day services centers in Illinois. The Company received proceeds of approximately $2.4million and recorded a pre-tax gain of $2.1million on the sale of the three adult day services centers. 3. Acquisitions Effective February23, 2016, the Company acquired certain assets of Lutheran Social Services of Illinois ( LSSI ) for approximately $0.1million. The results of operations from the acquisition of LSSI are included in the Company s statement of income from the date of the acquisition. The LSSI acquisition accounted for $0.2million and $0.1million of net service revenues and $7.5 thousand and $3.7 thousand of net income for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In order to focus on providing services to consumers in their homes, effective March1, 2017, Addus ceased providing adult day services and sold substantially all of the assets used in our adult day services centers, including LSSI. On April24, 2015, Addus HealthCare entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Margaret Coffey and Carol Kolar (the South Shore Sellers ), South Shore Home Health Service Inc. ( South Shore ) and Acaring Home Care, LLC ( Acaring ), pursuant to which Addus HealthCare agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding securities of each of South Shore and Acaring. On February5, 2016, Addus HealthCare completed its acquisition of all the outstanding securities of South Shore and Acaring for a total purchase price of $20.0million (the South Shore Purchase Price ). The related acquisition costs, included in general and administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Income, were $1.3million and were expensed as incurred. The results of operations from South Shore and Acaring are included in the Company s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income from the date of the acquisition. Acaring was dissolved on March1, 2016, and its assets were transferred to South Shore. 9 The Company s acquisition of South Shore and Acaring has been accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, and the resulting goodwill and other intangible assets was accounted for under ASC Topic 350 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The acquisition was recorded at its fair value as of February5, 2016. Under business combination accounting, the South Shore Purchase Price was $20.0million and was allocated to South Shore s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values. Based upon management s valuation, the total purchase price has been allocated as follows: Management s assessment of qualitative factors affecting goodwill for South Shore includes: estimates of market share at the date of purchase; ability to grow in the market; synergy with existing Company operations and the presence of managed care payors in the market. Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of trade names and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined by the Company s management. The net intangible and identifiable intangible assets, including goodwill, are deductible for tax purposes. The South Shore acquisition accounted for $14.3million and $8.2million of net service revenues and $1.0million and $0.3million of net income for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The following table contains unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statement information assuming the South Shore and Acaring acquisition closed on January1, 2015. The pro forma disclosures in the table above include adjustments for amortization of intangible assets and tax expense and acquisition costs to reflect results that are more representative of the combined results of the transactions as if South Shore and Acaring had been acquired effective January1, 2015. This pro forma information is presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be indicative of the results of operations that would have actually occurred. In addition, future results may vary significantly from the results reflected in the pro forma information. The unaudited pro forma financial information does not reflect the impact of future events that may occur after the acquisition, such as anticipated cost savings from operating synergies. 4. Goodwill and Intangible Assets A summary of the goodwill activity for the three months ended March31, 2017 is provided below: 10 The carrying amount and accumulated amortization of each identifiable intangible asset category consisted of the following as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016: Amortization expense related to the identifiable intangible assets amounted to $1.0million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016. Goodwill and state licenses are not amortized pursuant to ASC Topic 350. 5. Details of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts Prepaid expenses and other current assets consisted of the following: Accrued expenses consisted of the following: (1) The Company provides health insurance coverage to qualified union employees providing personal care services in Illinois through a Taft-Hartley multi-employer health and welfare plan under Section302(c)(5) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947. The Company s insurance contributions equal the amount reimbursed by the State of Illinois. Contributions are due within five business days from the date the funds are received from the State. Amounts due of $0.3million and $2.2million for health insurance reimbursements and contributions were reflected in prepaid insurance and accrued insurance as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. 11 (2) As a condition of the sale of substantially all of the assets used in the Company s home health business to subsidiaries of LHC Group, Inc. ( LHCG ) in February 2013, the Company is responsible for any adjustments to Medicare and Medicaid billings prior to the closing. In connection with an internal evaluation of the Company s billing processes, the Company discovered documentation errors in a number of claims that it had submitted to Medicare. Consistent with applicable law, the Company voluntarily remitted $1.8million to the U.S. government in March 2014. As of March 31, 2017, the Company, using its best judgment, has estimated a total of $0.4million for billing adjustments for 2013, 2012 and 2011 services which may be subject to Medicare audits. For the years ended December31, 2016 and 2015, the Company reduced the indemnification reserve accrual by the amounts accrued for periods no longer subject to Medicare audits of $0.2million and $0.4million, respectively. This amount is reflected as a reduction in general and administrative expense of discontinued operations. (3) Accrued severance represents amounts payable to terminated employees with employment and/or separation agreements with the Company. (4) Accrued restructuring includes reserves for lease commitments related to the closure of three adult day services centers in Illinois during the third quarter of 2016 and unused contact center office space. 6. Long-Term Debt Long-term debt consisted of the following: In accordance with ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs, the Company has classified the debt issuance costs as current portion of long-term debt or long term debt, less current portion as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016. Capital Leases On July12, 2014, September11, 2014 and April13, 2015, the Company executed three 48-month capital lease agreements for $2.7million, $1.4million and $0.4million, respectively, with First American Commercial Bancorp, Inc. The capital leases were entered into to finance property and equipment at the Company s support center. The underlying assets are included in Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. These capital lease obligations require monthly payments through September2019and have implicit interest rates that range from 3.0% to 3.6%. At the end of the term of each lease agreement, the Company has the option to purchase the assets covered by such lease agreement for $1. Effective October1, 2016, the Company entered into a 25-month capital lease agreement for $0.6million with Meridian Leasing Corporation. The capital leases were entered into to finance property and equipment for the Company s telephone systems. The underlying assets are included in Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. These capital lease obligations require monthly payments through October 2018and have an implicit interest rate of 11.1%. At the end of the term, the Company has the option to purchase the assets for $1 per the lease agreement. The following is an analysis of the leased property under capital leases by major classes. 12 The future minimum payments for capital leases as of March31, 2017 are as follows: (1) Amount necessary to reduce net minimum lease payments to present value calculated at the Company s incremental borrowing rate at lease inception. (2) Included in the balance sheet as $1.5million of the current portion of long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs and $0.6million of the long-term debt, less current portion, net of debt issuance costs. Senior Secured Credit Facility On May24, 2016, the Company entered into an amendment to its credit facility with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank, as agent and letters of credit issuer. The Company s amended credit facility provides a $100.0million revolving line of credit, a delayed draw term loan facility of up to $25.0million and an uncommitted incremental term loan facility of up to $50.0million, expiring November10, 2020 and includes a $35.0million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The amended credit facility increased the specified advance multiple from 3.25 to 3.75 to 1.00 and the maximum permitted senior leverage ratio from 3.50 to 4.00 to 1.00. Except as modified by the May24, 2016 amendment, the amended credit facility contains the same material terms as the previous agreement dated November10, 2015. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings are co-borrowers, and Holdings has guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of the Company s credit facility, is based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.75, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$100.0million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on our credit facility may be payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day plus a margin of 3.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one, two or three months advanced on the applicable day or (z)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the daily floating LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day. The Company pays a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%per annum based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit are charged at a rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans payable quarterly. During the first quarter of 2017, the Company drew and subsequently repaid $20.0 million of its revolving credit line to fund on-going operations.As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, the Company had a total of $23.8million and $24.1million outstanding on the credit facility and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $82.8million and $79.7million, respectively. The credit facility contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The credit facility also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, the Company is in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit facility after giving effect thereto, the Company has an excess availability of at least 40% of the revolving credit commitment under the credit facility and the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid in any fiscal year does not exceed $5.0 million), restrictions on the Company s ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, consummate any individual acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $25.0million and consummate acquisitions with total purchase price in excess of $40.0million in the aggregate over the term of the credit facility, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. 13 7. Income Taxes A reconciliation of the statutory federal tax rate of 35.0% for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 is summarized as follows: 8. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, the Company is subject to legal and/or administrative proceedings incidental to its business. It is the opinion of management that the outcome of pending legal and/or administrative proceedings will not have a material effect on the Company s financial position and results of operations. On January20, 2016, the Company was served with a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against the Company and Cigna Corporation by Stop Illinois Marketing Fraud, LLC, a qui tam relator formed for the purpose of bringing this action. In the action, the plaintiff alleges, inter alia, violations of the federal False Claims Act relating primarily to allegations of violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and allegedly improper referrals of patients from our home care division to our home health business, substantially all of which was sold in 2013. The plaintiff seeks to recover damages, fees and costs under the federal False Claims Act including treble damages, civil penalties and its attorneys fees. The U.S. government has declined to intervene at this time. Plaintiff amended its complaint on April4, 2016 to include additional allegations in support of its False Claims Act claims, including alleged violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The Company and Cigna Corporation filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on June6, 2016. On February3, 2017, the Court granted Cigna Corporation s motion to dismiss in full, and granted our motion to dismiss in part allowing Plaintiff another chance to amend its complaint. Plaintiff timely filed a second amended complaint on March10, 2017, withdrawing its conspiracy claim under the Federal False Claims Act and adding an explicit claim under the Illinois False Claims Act for the same underlying kickback allegations. On April10, 2017, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which has not yet been ruled on by the court. The Company intends to defend the litigation vigorously and believes the case will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. On May4, 2016, the Company, together with 59 other social service and healthcare providers in the State of Illinois, filed an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against certain individuals in their official capacities as agents of the Illinois Department of Human Services, the Illinois Department on Aging, the Illinois Department of Public Health, the Illinois Department of HealthCare and Family Services, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, the Illinois Department of Corrections and the Illinois Department of Central Management Services, including the Governor of Illinois. On July20, 2016, a third amended complaint was filed by the plaintiffs, who now comprise 97 similarly situated providers and provider organizations. In the action, the plaintiffs, including the Company, allege to have entered into contracts with the various defendants based in part on the Governor s proposed budget, which provided for funding for the services to be provided by plaintiffs thereunder. The Governor subsequently vetoed all of the relevant appropriations bills on June25, 2015 and again vetoed an appropriations bill that included funding for the contracts on June10, 2016. While the defendant officer and agency heads have continued to enforce such contracts, since August1, 2016, the Company received an aggregate of approximately $65.4million in payments from the State of Illinois from the stopgap budget enacted on June30, 2016. In those actions, plaintiffs alleged the defendant officers and agency heads acted beyond the scope of their legal authority in entering into and enforcing contracts with no intent to perform under such contracts by failing to pay amounts due thereunder when due. The action also alleged that the Governor of Illinois vetoes of appropriations for such contracts violated the Illinois Constitution. Plaintiffs sought injunctive relief to payment of overdue bills to prevent irreparable harm, including imperiling the State s infrastructure for delivery of human services. On August31, 2016, the Court denied plaintiffs petitions for declaratory and injunctive relief and dismissed the actions with prejudice. Plaintiffs timely filed a notice of appeal on September30, 2016. Employment Agreements The Company has entered into employment agreements with certain members of senior management. The terms of these agreements are up to four years with auto-renewal provisions thereafter, and include non-compete and nondisclosure provisions, as well as provide for defined severance payments in the event of termination. A substantial percentage of the Company s workforce is represented by the Service Employees International Union ( SEIU ). The Company has a national agreement with the SEIU which is currently under negotiation, as well as numerous agreements with local SEIU affiliates which are renegotiated from time to time. These negotiations are often initiated when the Company receives increases in hourly rates from various state agencies. Upon expiration of these collective bargaining agreements, the Company may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms with these labor unions. 9. Severance and Restructuring In 2016, the Company initiated steps to streamline its operations. The Company incurred total expenses related to these initiatives of approximately $0.9 million and $3.5 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which is included in general and administrative expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company expects some additional restructuring and other costs to occur, however, the amount and timing cannot be determined at this time. The expenses recorded for the three months ended March31, 2017 included costs related to terminated employees. The expenses recorded for the three months ended March31, 2016 included costs related to terminated employees and other direct costs associated with implementing these initiatives. Other direct costs included contract termination costs, accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs. 14 The following provides the components of and changes in our severance and restructuring accruals: Employee termination costs represent accrued severance payable to terminated employees with employment and/or separation agreements with the Company. The terminations resulted mainly from changes made to the executive leadership team made during the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016. No restructuring and other costs were recorded for the three months ended March31, 2017. Restructuring and other costs comprised of fees for the termination of an employee incentive program and various contracts with outside vendors for the three months ended March31, 2016. The aforementioned accruals are included in Accrued Expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the aforementioned expenses are included in General and Administrative Expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 10. Significant Payors A substantial portion of the Company s net service revenues and accounts receivable are derived from services performed for federal, state and local governmental agencies. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 36.5% and 44.8% of the Company s net service revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The related receivables due from the Illinois Department on Aging represented 52.9% and 55.4% of the Company s accounts receivable at March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. The State of Illinois payments have been delayed in the past and may continue to be delayed due to a budget impasse that began in 2015. The State of Illinois did not adopt a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2016, which ended on June 30, 2016, and it has not yet adopted a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2017, which began on July 1, 2016. Stopgap budget legislation was enacted on June 30, 2016, which appropriated funds through December 31, 2016. Without a budget, the State is not authorized to pay for the non-Medicaid consumers we serve. During the second half of 2016 and the first three months of 2017, we have been experiencing a delay in payments from the State of Illinois due to the current budget situation. Accounts receivable attributable to delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging totaled $58.8 million as of March 31, 2017, approximately $56.2 million thereof related to Non-Medicaid consumers and approximately $2.6 million related to Medicaid consumers. Reimbursements from the State of Illinois could be further delayed due to the lack of a budget for fiscal year 2017 and because current forecasts indicate higher state deficits in the near future. 11. Concentration of Cash Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash. The Company maintains cash with financial institutions which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash. 12. Subsequent Events On April 24, 2017, the Company entered into a definitive securities purchase agreement to acquire Options Services, Inc. d/b/a Options Home Care ( Options Home Care ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of HB Management Group, Inc., for approximately $23.2 million. Options Home Care is a provider of personal care services in more than 20 counties in New Mexico and the acquisition will expand the footprint of the Company s existing operations in the state. The Company is expected to close on the acquisition in the third quarter, pending customary closing conditions. On May8, 2017, the Company entered into a new credit facility and credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) with certain lenders and Capital One, National Association, as a lender and swing lender and as agent for all lenders. This credit facility totals $250.0 million, replaces our previous senior secured credit facility totaling $125.0 million, and terminates our Second Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of August 11, 2014 with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank as agent.The new credit facility includes a $125.0 million revolving loan, a $45.0 million term loan and an $80.0 million delayed draw term loan. The maturity of the new credit facility is five years, although the delayed draw term loan is only available until November 8, 2018. Under the terms of an accordion feature of the Credit Agreement, $100.0 million is also available for incremental term loans. Fundings under the delayed draw term loans and the incremental term loans are limited to financing or refinancing Permitted Acquisitions (as defined in the Credit Agreement). Addus HealthCare is the borrower, with the Company and substantially all of the subsidiaries of the Company as guarantors under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of the Company s and the other credit parties current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrower and subsidiaries. The availability of additional draws under the revolving credit portion of the Company s credit facility is conditioned, among other things, upon (after giving effect to such draws), the ratio of Consolidated Total Indebtedness (as defined in the Credit Agreement), less subordinated indebtedness, to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) not exceeding 4.25:1.00. Interest on the Company s credit facility may be payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% based on the applicable senior leverage ratio (provided that the applicable margin will be 1.50% through approximately October 31, 2017) plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day (not to be less than 0.00%) plus a margin of 1.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.50% to 3.25% based on the applicable leverage ratio (provided that the applicable margin will be 2.50% through approximately October 31, 2017) plus (ii) the offered rate per annum for the applicable interest period that appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page. Swing loans may not be LIBOR loans. We pay a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. (provided that the fee will be 0.25% through approximately October 31, 2017). The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The Credit Agreement also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (provided that Addus Healthcare may make distributions to the Company in an amount that does not exceed $5.0 million in any year absent of an event of default, plus limited exceptions for tax and administrative distributions), a restriction on the ability to consummate acquisitions in amounts exceeding $60.0 million individually and $80.0 million in the aggregate each year (in each case, without the consent of the lenders), restrictions on mergers, dispositions of assets, and affiliate transactions, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. The Credit Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing summary of the Credit Agreement does not purport to be a complete statement of the parties rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.3. 15 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business and operations. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that include words like believes, belief, expects, plans, anticipates, intends, projects, estimates, may, might, would, should and similar expressions are intended to be forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described therein. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December31, 2016, filed on March15, 2017. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified, you should not rely on any forward-looking statement as a prediction of future events. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking and we do not intend to release publicly any updates or changes in our expectations concerning the forward-looking statements or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances upon which any forward-looking statement may be based, except as required by law. Overview We operate as one business segment and are a provider of comprehensive personal care services, which are provided principally in the home. Our personal care services provide assistance with activities of daily living. Our consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. Our payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. As of March31, 2017, we provided personal care services to over 34,000 consumers through 111 locations across 24 states. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, we served approximately 38,000 and 36,000 discrete consumers, respectively. A summary of our financial results for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 is provided in the table below: Our services are predominantly provided in the home under agreements with state and local government agencies. Our consumers are predominately dual eligible, meaning they are eligible to receive both Medicare and Medicaid benefits. The federal government permits states to initiate dual eligible demonstration programs and other managed Medicaid initiatives designed to coordinate the services provided through Medicare and Medicaid, with the overall objective of improving care quality and reducing costs. States are increasingly implementing managed care programs to deliver healthcare services to Medicaid enrollees. Managed care organizations have an economic incentive to better manage the healthcare expenditures of their membership, and therefore seek to provide care in a more cost-effective setting, such as a patient s home. Managed care revenues accounted for 32.3% and 23.1% of our revenue mix during the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our model is designed to improve consumer outcomes and satisfaction, as well as lower the cost of acute care treatment and reduce service duplication. We believe our model to be especially valuable to managed care organizations that have economic responsibility for both personal care services as well as acute care expenditures. We believe our model is a differentiator and as a result we expect to receive increased referrals from managed care organizations. The personal care services we provide include assistance with bathing, grooming, oral care, assistance with feeding and dressing, medication reminders, meal planning and preparation, housekeeping and transportation services and other activities of daily living. We provide these non-medical services on a long-term, continuous basis, with an average duration of approximately 26 months per consumer. We utilize home care aides to observe and report changes in the condition of our consumers for the purpose of early intervention in the disease process, with the goal of reducing the cost of medical services by preventing unnecessary emergency room visits and/or hospital admissions and re-admissions. We coordinate the services provided by our team with those of other healthcare agencies as appropriate. Changes in our consumers conditions are evaluated by appropriately trained managers and may result in the condition being reported to the consumers case manager at the managed care organization or other payor and in some cases to the consumers primary care physicians for treatment or other follow-up. We believe this approach to the care of our consumers and the integration of our services into the broader healthcare continuum are attractive to managed care organizations and other payors who are ultimately responsible for the healthcare needs and costs of our consumers. We utilize Interactive Voice Response ( IVR ) systems and smart phone applications to communicate with the majority of our home care aides. Through these technologies our aides are able to report changes in health conditions with alerts forwarded to an appropriate manager for triage and evaluation.In addition, we use this technology to record basic transaction information about each visit, record start and end times for a scheduled shift, track mileage reimbursement, send text messages to the home care aide and communicate basic payroll information. In addition to our focus on organic growth, we have been growing through selective acquisitions, which have expanded our presence in current markets or which have facilitated our entry into new markets where the personal care business has been moving to managed care organizations. We completed seven acquisitions during the period from December2013 through February 2016. 16 Business As of March31, 2017, we provided our personal care services through 111 locations across 24 states. Our payor clients are principally federal, state and local governmental agencies and, increasingly, managed care organizations. The federal, state and local programs under which the agencies operate are subject to legislative, budgetary and other risks that can influence reimbursement rates. We are experiencing a further transition of business from government payors to managed care organizations with which we are seeking to grow our business given our emphasis on coordinated care and the prevention of the need for acute care. Managed care organizations are commercial insurance carriers that are under contract with various federal and state governmental agencies to provide and manage a full continuum of care. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 our payor revenue mix was: We derive a significant amount of our net service revenues from our operations in Illinois, which represented 53.1% and 54.8% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. A significant amount of our net service revenues are derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 36.5% and 44.8% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The State of Illinois payments have been delayed in the past and may continue to be delayed due to a budget impasse that began in 2015. The State of Illinois did not adopt a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2016, which ended on June30, 2016, and it has not yet adopted a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2017, which began on July1, 2016. Stopgap budget legislation was enacted on June30, 2016, which appropriated funds through December31, 2016. Without a budget, the State is not authorized to pay for the non-Medicaid consumers we serve. During the second half of 2016 and the first three months of 2017, we have been experiencing a delay in payments from the State of Illinois due to the current budget situation. Accounts receivable attributable to delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging totaled $58.8 million as of March31, 2017, approximately $56.2 million thereof related to Non-Medicaid consumers and approximately $2.6 million related to Medicaid consumers. Reimbursements from the State of Illinois could be further delayed due to the lack of a budget for fiscal year 2017 and because current forecasts indicate higher state deficits in the near future. We measure the performance of our business using a number of different metrics, including billable hours, billable hours per business day, revenues per billable hour and the number of consumers, or census. Components of our Statements of Income Net Service Revenues We generate net service revenues by providing our services directly to consumers and primarily on an hourly basis. We receive payment for providing such services from our payor clients, including federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. Net service revenues are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate which is either contractual or fixed by legislation and are recognized at the time services are rendered. Cost of Service Revenues We incur direct care wages, payroll taxes and benefit-related costs in connection with providing our services. We also provide workers compensation and general liability coverage for our employees. Employees are also reimbursed for their travel time and related travel costs. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses include our costs for operating our network of local agencies and our administrative offices. Our agency expenses consist of costs for supervisory personnel, our community care supervisors and office administrative costs. Personnel costs include wages, payroll taxes, and employee benefits. Facility costs including rents, utilities, postage, telephone and office expenses. Our support center and executive office includes costs for accounting, information systems, human resources, billing and collections, contracting, marketing and executive leadership. These expenses consist of compensation, including stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, employee benefits, legal, accounting and other professional fees, travel, general insurance, rents and related facility costs. In 2016, the Company initiated steps to streamline its operations. The Company incurred total expenses related to these initiatives of approximately $0.9million and $3.5million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, which is included in general and administrative expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company expects some additional restructuring and other costs to occur, however, the amount and timing cannot be determined at this time. The expenses recorded for the three months ended March31, 2017 included costs related to terminated employees. The expenses recorded for three months ended March31, 2016 included costs related to terminated employees and other direct costs associated with implementing these initiatives. Other direct costs included contract termination costs, accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses We amortize our intangible assets with finite lives, consisting of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks, state licenses and non-compete agreements, principally using accelerated methods based upon their estimated useful lives. Depreciable assets consist principally of furniture and equipment, network administration and telephone equipment, and operating system software. Depreciable and leasehold assets are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line method over their useful lives or, if less and if applicable, their lease terms. 17 Interest Income Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, we did not receive any prompt payment interest. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of interest and unused credit line fees on our credit facility, capital lease obligations and other debt instruments and is reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income when incurred. Other Income For the three months ended March31, 2017 other income of $0.1million consists of income distributions received from the cost method investment in joint venture. No distributions were received during the three months ended March31, 2016. We account for this income in accordance with ASC Topic 325, Investments Other. We recognize the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. Our federal statutory rate was 35.0% for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016. The effective income tax rate was 33.2% and 32.9% for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The difference between federal statutory and effective income tax rates is principally due to the inclusion of state taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended March31, 2016 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations. (1) Average billable census is the number of unique clients receiving a billable service during a period. (2) Billable hours is the total number of hours provided to clients during a period. 18 Net service revenues from federal, state, local and other governmental programs accounted for 64.9% and 73.2% of net service revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Managed care organizations accounted for 32.3% and 23.1% of net service revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, with commercial insurance payors and private pay accounting for the remainder of net service revenues.A significant amount of our net service revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 were derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 36.5% and 44.8% respectively, of our total net service revenues. Net service revenues increased $9.0million, or 9.7%, to $101.6million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to $92.6million for the same period in 2016. The increase was primarily due to a 8.4% increase in billable hours and a 1.3% increase in revenues per billable hour. Gross profit, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues, increased to 26.9% for the first quarter of 2017, compared to 26.3% for the same period in 2016. This increase is primarily due to a $0.5 million reduction in travel wages, travel mileage and unbillable errand mileage in the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, General and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues decreased to 20.6% for the three months ended March31, 2017, from 24.0% for the three months ended March31, 2016. General and administrative expenses decreased to $20.9million as compared to $22.2million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a $2.6million decrease in severance and restructuring costs related to our initiatives to streamline operations which began in 2016. Depreciation and amortization expense remained consistent from the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the first quarter of 2016 at $1.5million. Amortization of intangibles, which are principally amortized using accelerated methods, totaled $1.0million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016. Interest Income Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, we did not receive any prompt payment interest. Interest Expense Interest expense increased to $0.7million from $0.4million for the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the same period in 2016. The increase is primarily the result of interest on the term loan portion of the senior secured credit facility outstanding during each period. See Note 6 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) Long-Term Debt for additional information. Other Income For the three months ended March31, 2017, other income of $0.1million consists of income distributions received from the cost method investment in joint venture. No distributions were received during the three months ended March31, 2016. We account for this income in accordance with ASC Topic 325, Investments Other. We recognize the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 our federal statutory rate was 35.0%. The effective income tax rate was 33.2% and 32.9% for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.The difference between our federal statutory and effective income tax rates are principally due to the inclusion of state taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operations and borrowings under our credit facility. As described below under New Credit Facility, we entered into a new credit facility on May8, 2017 that replaced our prior credit facility. We entered into an amendment to our prior credit facility on the terms described below on May24, 2016. At March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, we had cash balances of $19.2million and $8.0million, respectively. As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 we had a total of $23.8million and $24.1million outstanding on our credit facility, respectively. After giving effect to the amount drawn on our credit facility, approximately $16.7million of outstanding letters of credit as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, and borrowing limits based on an advance multiple of adjusted EBITDA, we had $82.8million and $79.7million available for borrowing under the credit facility as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities represent the inflow of cash from our payor clients and the outflow of cash for payroll and payroll taxes, operating expenses, interest and taxes. Due to its revenue deficiencies as well as budgeting and financing issues, from time to time the State of Illinois has reimbursed us on a delayed basis with respect to our various agreements including with our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging. The open receivable balance from the State of Illinois decreased by $3.6million from $69.3million as of December31, 2016 to $65.7million as of March31, 2017. The decrease resulted from $40.1million in payments for Medicaid consumers made during the first quarter of 2017 offset by additional billings for services provided during the quarter. The State of Illinois payments have been delayed in the past and may continue to be delayed due to a budget impasse that began in 2015. The State of Illinois did not adopt a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2016, which ended on June30, 2016, and it has not yet adopted a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2017, which began on July1, 2016. Stopgap budget legislation was enacted on June30, 2016, which appropriated funds through December31, 2016. Without a budget, the State is not authorized to pay for the non-Medicaid consumers we serve. During the second half of 2016 and the first three months of 2017, we have been experiencing a delay in payments from the State of Illinois due to the current budget situation. Accounts receivable attributable to delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging totaled $58.8 million as of March31, 2017, approximately $56.2 million thereof related to Non-Medicaid consumers and approximately $2.6 million related to Medicaid consumers. Reimbursements from the State of Illinois could be further delayed due to the lack of a budget for fiscal year 2017 and because current forecasts indicate higher state deficits in the near future. There remains uncertainty surrounding the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year and future budgets. If payments from the State of Illinois continue to be delayed in the future or become further delayed, or the Illinois State budget impasse is not resolved in the near term, the delays could adversely impact our liquidity and result in the need to increase borrowings under our credit facility or cause us to pursue other liquidity options. New Credit Facility On May8, 2017, we entered into a new credit facility and credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) with certain lenders and Capital One, National Association, as a lender and swing lender and as agent for all lenders. This credit facility totals $250.0 million, replaces our previous senior secured credit facility totaling $125.0 million, and terminates our Second Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2015 with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank as agent.The new credit facility includes a $125.0 million revolving loan, a $45.0 million term loan and an $80.0 million delayed draw term loan. The maturity of the new credit facility is five years, although the delayed draw term loan is only available until November8, 2018. Under the terms of an accordion feature of the Credit Agreement, $100.0 million is also available for incremental term loans. The availability of additional draws under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility is conditioned, among other things, upon (after giving effect to such draws), the ratio of Consolidated Total Indebtedness (as defined in the Credit Agreement), less subordinated indebtedness, to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) not exceeding 4.25:1.00. The applicable margin (in addition to the Base Rate or LIBOR, as defined in the Credit Agreement) for interest payments ranges from 1.50% to 2.25% (for Base Rate Loans) and from 2.50% to 3.25% (for LIBOR Loans) based on the applicable senior leverage ratio (provided that such applicable margin will be 1.50% (for Base Rate Loans) and 2.50% (for LIBOR Loans) through approximately October31, 2017). The terms of the Credit Agreement are described in further detail under Note12 Subsequent Events to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 19 Credit Facility Prior to May8, 2017 On May24, 2016, we entered into an amendment to our credit facility with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank, as agent and letters of credit issuer. Our amended credit facility provides a $100.0million revolving line of credit, a delayed draw term loan facility of up to $25.0million and an uncommitted incremental term loan facility of up to $50.0million, expiring November10, 2020 and includes a $35.0million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The amended credit facility increased the specified advance multiple from 3.25 to 3.75 to 1.00 and the maximum permitted senior leverage ratio from 3.50 to 4.00 to 1.00. Except as modified by the May24, 2016, amendment, the amended credit facility contains the same material terms as the previous agreement dated November10, 2015. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings are co-borrowers, and Holdings has guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of our credit facility is based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements have been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.75, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$100.0million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on our credit facility may be payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day plus a margin of 3.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one, two or three months advanced on the applicable day or (z)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the daily floating LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day. We pay a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%per annum based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit are charged at a rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans payable quarterly. During the first quarter, we drew and subsequently repaid $20.0million of our revolving credit line to fund on-going operations. As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, we had a total of $23.8million and $24.1million outstanding on our credit facility and the total availability under our credit facility was $82.8 and $79.7million, respectively. The credit facility contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The credit facility also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, we are in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit facility after giving effect thereto, we have an excess availability of at least 40% of the revolving credit commitment under the credit facility and the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid in any fiscal year does not exceed $5.0 million), restrictions on our ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, consummate any individual acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $25.0million and consummate acquisitions with total purchase price in excess of $40.0million in the aggregate over the term of the credit facility, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, we were in compliance with all of our credit facility covenants. If we do not have sufficient cash resources or availability under our credit facility, or we are otherwise prohibited from making acquisitions under the terms of our credit facility, our growth, including our ability to grow through acquisitions, could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing or the necessary consents from our lenders under our credit facility. We believe the available borrowings under our credit facility, combined with cash from operations, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs for at least the next 12months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016: Three Months Ended March31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended March31, 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities was $9.6million for the three months ended March31, 2017, compared to cash used in operating activities of $6.0million for the same period in 2016. This increase in cash provided by operations was primarily due to payments received from the State of Illinois of $40.1million for Medicaid consumers, offset by additional billings for services provided during the quarter. Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.2million for the three months ended March31, 2017 compared to cash used in investing activities of $20.8million for the three months ended March31, 2016. Our investing activities for the three months ended March31, 2017 were $2.4million in net proceeds from the sale of three adult day services centers and $1.2million in purchases of property and equipment related to new office space and investments in our technology infrastructure. Our investing activities for the three months ended March31, 2016 were $20.4million for the acquisition of South Shore as previously described in Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and $0.3million in purchases of property and equipment to invest in our technology infrastructure. Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.3million for the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $31.7million for the three months ended March31, 2016. Our financing activities for the three months ended March31, 2017 were $20.0million in draws on the revolver portion of our credit facility to fund growth and on-going operations and the subsequent repayment of $20.0million, $1.0million in cash received from exercise of stock options, $0.4million of payments on capital lease obligations and $0.3million of payments on the term loan portion of our credit facility. Our financing activities for the three months ended March31, 2016 were a $32.0million draw on our credit facility to fund on-going operations and the acquisitions of South Shore, $0.3million of payments on long-term debt, $0.2million payment for debt issuance costs and $0.2million of cash received for the exercise of employee stock options. 20 Outstanding Accounts Receivable Gross accounts receivable as of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 were approximately $124.4million. Outstanding accounts receivable, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts, decreased by $0.8million as of March31, 2017 as compared to December31, 2016. The decrease in net accounts receivable is primarily due to a $0.9 million increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts for managed care organizations and acquisition transitions. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. Our collection procedures include review of account aging and direct contact with our payors. We have historically not used collection agencies. An uncollectible amount is written off to the allowance account after reasonable collection efforts have been exhausted. The following tables detail our accounts receivable before reserves by payor category, showing Illinois governmental payors separately, and the related allowance amount at March31, 2017 and December31, 2016: We calculate our days sales outstanding ( DSO ) by taking the accounts receivable outstanding net of the allowance for doubtful accounts divided by the total net service revenues for the last quarter, multiplied by the number of days in that quarter. Our DSOs were 103 days and 104 days at March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. The DSOs for our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging, at March31, 2017 and December31, 2016 were 148 days and 152 days, respectively. We may not receive payments on a consistent basis in the near term and our DSOs and the DSO for the Illinois Department on Aging may increase depending on the actions of the Illinois General Assembly and the Governor related to the fiscal year 2017 budget. The increase in the reserve as a percentage of gross accounts receivable to 6.6% as of March31, 2017 from 5.9% as of December31, 2016 is attributable to additional reserves needed for managed care organizations and acquisition transitions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March31, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet guarantees or arrangements with unconsolidated entities. 21 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of the financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expense and related disclosures. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other sources and factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. We consider the items discussed below to be critical because of their impact on operations and their application requires our judgment and estimates. Revenue Recognition The majority of our revenues for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 are derived from Medicaid and Medicaid waiver programs under agreements with various state and local authorities. These agreements provide for a service term from one year to an indefinite term. Services are provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant state or local agency, at an hourly rate specified in the agreement or fixed by legislation and recognized in net service revenues as services are provided. Services to other payors, such as managed care organizations and commercial insurance or private clients, are provided at negotiated hourly rates and recognized in net service revenues as services are provided. We provide for appropriate allowances for uncollectible amounts at the time the services are rendered. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We are paid for our services primarily by state and local agencies under Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, managed care organizations, commercial insurance companies and private consumers. While our accounts receivable are uncollateralized, our credit risk is somewhat limited due to the significance of governmental payors to our results of operations. Laws and regulations governing the governmental programs in which we participate are complex and subject to interpretation. Amounts collected may be different than amounts billed due to client eligibility issues, insufficient or incomplete documentation, services at levels other than authorized and other reasons unrelated to credit risk. Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the income statement caption, interest income. We did not receive any prompt payment interest for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. Goodwill Our carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. We may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. We can elect to perform Step 0, an optional qualitative analysis, and based on the results skip the remaining two steps. In 2016, we elected to implement Step 0, and we were not required to conduct the remaining two steps. The results of our Step 0 assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore we concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2016. No impairment charges were recorded for the three months ended March31, 2017 or 2016. Long-Lived Assets We review our long-lived assets and finite lived intangibles for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. To determine if impairment exists, we compare the estimated future undiscounted cash flows from the related long-lived assets to the net carrying amount of such assets. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset, generally determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows. No impairment charges were recorded for the year ended December31, 2016 or three months ended March31, 2017 or 2016. Indefinite-lived Assets We also have indefinite-lived assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as licenses and in certain states certificates of need to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. Our management has concluded that these assets have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets and we intend to renew the licenses indefinitely. The licenses and certificates of need are tested annually for impairment. No impairment charges were recorded for the year ended December31, 2016 or three months ended March31, 2017 or 2016. Workers Compensation Program Our workers compensation insurance program has a $0.4million deductible component. We recognize our obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. We monitor our claims quarterly and adjust our reserves accordingly. These costs are recorded primarily in the cost of services caption in the condensed consolidated statement of income. Under the agreement pursuant to which we acquired Addus HealthCare, claims under our workers compensation insurance program that related to December31, 2005 or earlier were the responsibility of the selling shareholders in the acquisition, subject to certain limitations. The responsibility of the selling shareholders for these claims was terminated on December29, 2014. In August 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954), Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries ( ASU 2010-24 ), which clarifies that companies should not net insurance recoveries against a related claim liability. Additionally, the amount of the claim liability should be determined without consideration of insurance recoveries. As of March31, 2017 and December31, 2016, we recorded $0.6million and $0.7million in workers compensation insurance recovery receivables and a corresponding increase in workers compensation liability. The workers compensation insurance recovery receivable is included in our prepaid expenses and other current assets on the balance sheet. Interest Income Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, we did not receive any prompt payment interest. 22 Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of our assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740, also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. Stock-based Compensation The Company currently has one active stock incentive plan, the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the 2009 Plan ), that provides for stock-based employee compensation. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis under the 2009 Plan over the vesting period of the equity awards based on the grant date fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. From October28, 2009 to December31, 2016, the Company utilized the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial Model to value the Company s options. Beginning January1, 2017, the Company began utilizing the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model to value the Company s options, as the Company believes it is a more widely accepted and understood valuation model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes Model and the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial Model is affected by the Company s stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and will be effective for us as of January1, 2018. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or modified retrospective (cumulative effect) transition method and we have not yet selected which transition method we will apply. Our evaluation of ASU 2014-09 is not complete. The FASB has issued and may issue in the future, interpretative guidance, which may cause our evaluation to change. We have completed an initial review to determine the impact ASU 2014-09 and its subsequent updates through December31, 2016 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements or financial statement disclosures upon adoption. Based on our preliminary review, we believe that the timing and measurement of revenue for our customers will be similar to our current revenue recognition. However, this view is preliminary and could change based on the detailed analysis associated with the conversion and implementation phases of our ASU 2014-09 project. We will complete our assessment during 2017. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases which replaces existing leasing rules with a comprehensive lease measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. ASU 2016-02 will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as liabilities, with corresponding right-of-use assets and is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2018, subject to early adoption. For income statement recognition purposes, leases will be classified as either a finance or an operating lease. We will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. Upon initial evaluation, we believe that the new standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Balance Sheets but it will not affect our liquidity. We are continuing to evaluate other potential impacts to our financial statements and accounting systems including whether we will need to secure new software to account for the change in accounting for leases. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-13, Financial Instruments (Topic 326) Credit Losses. ASU 2016-13 changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. Under the new standard, entities holding financial assets, including accounts receivables and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through net income are to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. An allowance for credit losses will be a valuation account that will be deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. ASU 2016-13 is effective as of January1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This standardamends and adjusts how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.ASU 2016-15is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years, and will require adoption on a retrospective basis unless impracticable. If impracticable we would be required to apply the amendments prospectively as of the earliest date possible. We are currently evaluating the impact that ASU 2016-15 will have on our statement of financial position or financial statement disclosures. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. The new guidance eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (i.e., Step 2 of the current goodwill impairment test) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Instead, entities will record an impairment charge based on the excess of a reporting unit s carrying amount over its fair value (i.e., measure the charge based on the current Step 1). ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual and any interim impairment tests for periods beginning after December15, 2019. We are currently evaluating the provisions of ASU 2017-04 to determine how our goodwill impairment testing will be impacted and whether we may elect to adopt ASU 2017-04 prior to the stated effective date.Item1. Financial Statements ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS As of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 3 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME For the Three and Six Months Ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands, Except Per Share Data) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 4 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY For the Six Months Ended June30, 2017 (Amounts and Shares in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 5 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the Six Months Ended June30, 2017 and 2016 (Amounts in Thousands) (Unaudited) See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 6 ADDUS HOMECARE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation and Description of Business The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Addus HomeCare Corporation ( Holdings ) and its subsidiaries (together with Holdings, the Company, we, us, or our ). The Company operates as one reportable business segment and is a provider of comprehensive personal care services, which are provided principally in the home. The Company s personal care services provide assistance with activities of daily living. The Company s consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. The Company s payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. As of June30, 2017, the Company provided personal care services to approximately 34,000 consumers through 110 locations across 24 states. Principles of Consolidation All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company s investment in entities with less than 20% ownership or in which the Company does not have the ability to influence the operations of the investee are accounted for using the cost method and are included in investments in joint ventures. Revenue Recognition The Company generates net service revenues by providing services directly to consumers. The Company receives payments for providing services from federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. The Company s operations are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate specified in agreements or fixed by legislation and recognized as revenues at the time services are rendered. Personal care service revenues are reimbursed by state, local and other governmental programs which are partially funded by Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, with the remainder reimbursed through insurance programs and private pay. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company establishes its allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. The Company establishes its provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In its evaluation, the Company considers other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that the Company s management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from the Company s estimates. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the related assets by use of the straight-line method. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. The estimated useful lives of the property and equipment are as follows: Goodwill The Company s carrying value of goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ). In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. The Company may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. In Step 0, the Company can elect to perform an optional qualitative analysis and based on the results skip the two-step analysis. In 2016 and 2015, the Company elected to implement Step 0 and was not required to conduct the remaining two-step analysis. The results of the Company s Step 0 assessments indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore the Company concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2016. No impairment charges were recorded for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 or 2016. Intangible Assets The Company s identifiable intangible assets consist of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks, state licenses and non-compete agreements. Amortization is computed using straight-line and accelerated methods based upon the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which range from two to twenty-fiveyears. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the estimated economic benefit method over the useful life and assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The Company would recognize an impairment loss when the estimated future non-discounted cash flows associated with the intangible asset is less than the carrying value. An impairment charge would then be recorded for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The Company estimates the fair value of these intangible assets using the income approach. No impairment charge was recorded for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 or 2016. The income approach, which the Company uses to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets (other than goodwill), is dependent on a number of factors including estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, expected periods the assets will be utilized, appropriate discount rates and other variables. The Company bases its fair value estimates on assumptions the Company believes to be reasonable but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. 7 The Company also has indefinite-lived intangible assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as certificates of need and licenses to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. The Company s management has concluded that certificates of need and licenses have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets, and the Company intends to renew and operate the certificates of need and licenses indefinitely. The certificates of need and licenses are tested annually for impairment, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur. No impairment was recorded for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 or 2016. Debt Issuance Costs The Company amortizes debt issuance costs on a straight-line method over the term of the related debt. This method approximates the effective interest method. The Company has classified the debt issuance costs as current portion of long-term debt or long-term debt, less current portion as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016. Workers Compensation Program The Company s workers compensation insurance program has a $0.4million deductible component. The Company recognizes its obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. The Company monitors its claims quarterly and adjusts its reserves accordingly. These costs are recorded primarily as the cost of services in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Under the agreement pursuant to which the Company acquired Addus HealthCare, claims under its workers compensation insurance program that related to December31, 2005 or earlier were the responsibility of the selling shareholders in the acquisition, subject to certain limitations. The responsibility of the selling shareholders for these claims was terminated on December29, 2014. In August 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update No 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954), Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries ( ASU 2010-24 ), which clarifies that companies should not net insurance recoveries against a related claim liability. Additionally, under ASU 2010-24, the amount of the claim liability should be determined without consideration of insurance recoveries. As of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, the Company recorded $0.5million and $0.7million, respectively, in workers compensation insurance recovery receivables and a corresponding increase in workers compensation liability. The workers compensation insurance recovery receivable is included in the Company s prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest Income Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the statement of income as interest income. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, the Company did not receive any prompt payment interest. While the Company may be owed additional prompt payment interest, the amount and timing of receipt of such payments remain uncertain, and the Company has determined that it will continue to recognize prompt payment interest income when received. Interest Expense The Company s interest expense consists of interest and unused credit line fees on its credit facilities, interest on its capital lease obligations, and amortization and write-off of debt issuance costs, which is reported in the statement of income when incurred. Other Income Other income consists of income distributions received from the investment in joint venture. The Company accounts for this income in accordance with ASC Topic 325, Investments Other. The Company recognizes the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in its financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of the Company s assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740 also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 allows for simplification of several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Under ASU 2016-09, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies (including tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards) should be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement. ASU 2016-09 also requires recognition of excess tax benefits regardless of whether the benefit reduces taxes payable in the current period. ASU 2016-09 further permits the withholding of an amount up to employees maximum individual tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction without resulting in a liability classification. ASU 2016-09 also requires any excess tax benefits be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity and cash paid by an employer when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes to be classified as a financing activity. The Company adopted this standard on January1, 2017 on a prospective basis. As a result, for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, the Company recorded an excess tax benefit of $92.0 thousand and $118.0 thousand within income tax expense on its Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Stock-based Compensation The Company currently has two active stock incentive plans, the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the 2009 Plan ) and the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan , and together with the 2009 Plan, the Plans ), that provide for stock-based employee compensation. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis under the Plans over the vesting period of the equity awards based on the grant date fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. From October28, 2009 to December31, 2016, the Company utilized the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial Model to value the Company s options. Beginning January1, 2017, the Company began utilizing the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model to value the Company s options, as the Company believes it is a more widely accepted and understood valuation model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes Model and the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial Model is affected by the Company s stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. Diluted Net Income Per Common Share Diluted net income per common share, calculated on the treasury stock method, is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. The Company s outstanding securities that may potentially dilute the common stock are stock options and restricted stock awards. Included in the Company s calculation of diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 were approximately 461,000 stock options outstanding, of which approximately 105,000 and 101,000, respectively, were dilutive. In addition, there were approximately 139,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, 47,000 and 51,000 of which were dilutive for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively. Included in the Company s calculation of diluted earnings per share for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 were approximately 469,000 stock options outstanding, of which approximately 24,000 and 25,000, respectively, were dilutive. In addition, there were approximately 98,000 restricted stock awards outstanding, none of which were dilutive for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. Estimates The financial statements are prepared by management in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) and include estimated amounts and certain disclosures based on assumptions about future events. The Company s critical accounting estimates include the following areas: the allowance for doubtful accounts, reserve for self-insurance claims, accounting for stock-based compensation, accounting for income taxes and when required, the quantitative assessment of goodwill. Accordingly, actual results could differ from those estimates. Fair Value Measurements The Company s financial instruments consist primarily of cash, accounts receivable, payables and debt. The carrying amounts reported on the Company s Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments. The carrying value of the Company s long-term debt with variable interest rates approximates fair value based on instruments with similar terms. The Company applies fair value techniques on a non-recurring basis associated with valuing potential impairment losses related to goodwill, if required, and indefinite-lived intangible assets and also when determining the fair value of contingent considerations. To determine the fair value in these situations, the Company uses Level3 inputs, defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists; therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions, such as discounted cash flows, or if available, what a market participant would pay on the measurement date. 8 The Company utilizes the income approach to estimate the fair value of its intangible assets derived from acquisitions. In addition, in performing the impairment assessment of its investment in joint ventures, the Company uses discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value of its investment. Going Concern In connection with the preparation of the financial statements for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, the Company conducted an evaluation as to whether there were conditions and events, considered in the aggregate, which raised substantial doubt as to the entity s ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date of the issuance, or the date of availability, of the financial statements to be issued. The evaluation concluded that there did not appear to be evidence of substantial doubt of the entity s ability to continue as a going concern. New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and will be effective for the Company as of January1, 2018. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or modified retrospective (cumulative effect) transition method and the Company has selected the modified retrospective approach. The Company s evaluation of ASU 2014-09 is not complete. The FASB has issued and may issue in the future, interpretative guidance, which may cause the Company s evaluation to change. The Company has completed the initial review to determine the impact ASU 2014-09 and its subsequent updates will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements or financial statement disclosures upon adoption. Based on the Company s continued review, it believes that the timing and measurement of revenue for its customers will be similar to its current revenue recognition model due to the structure of payor contracts which consists of a fixed reimbursement rate that is deemed earned upon completion of a defined service. In addition, the Company has made ongoing progress around process changes and system enhancements to ensure adherence to the new standard. The Company will complete its assessment of the impact and finalize implementation of system enhancements during the remainder of 2017. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases, which replaces existing leasing rules with a comprehensive lease measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. ASU 2016-02 will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as liabilities, with corresponding right-of-use assets and is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2018, subject to early adoption. For income statement recognition purposes, leases will be classified as either a finance or an operating lease. The Company will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. Upon initial evaluation, the Company believes that the new standard will have a material impact on its Consolidated Balance Sheets but it will not affect its liquidity. It has been determined that the Company will need to secure new software to account for the change in accounting for leases and is currently reviewing the software options available. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-13, Financial Instruments (Topic 326) Credit Losses. ASU 2016-13 changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. Under the new standard, entities holding financial assets and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through net income are to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. An allowance for credit losses will be a valuation account that will be deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. ASU 2016-13 is effective asof January1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This standardamends and adjusts how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years, and will require adoption on a retrospective basis unless impracticable. If impracticable the Company would be required to apply the amendments prospectively as of the earliest date possible. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that ASU 2016-15 will have on its statement of cash flows. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. The new guidance eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (i.e., Step 2 of the current goodwill impairment test) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Instead, entities will record an impairment charge based on the excess of a reporting unit s carrying amount over its fair value (i.e., measure the charge based on the current Step 1). ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual and any interim impairment tests for periods beginning after December15, 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the provisions of ASU 2017-04 to determine how its goodwill impairment testing will be impacted and whether it may elect to adopt ASU 2017-04 prior to the stated effective date. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation Stock Compensation: Scope of Modification Accounting. ASU 2017-19 clarifies when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification.Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.This pronouncement is effective for annual periods, and for interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, and is applied prospectively to changes in terms or conditions of awards occurring on or after the adoption date. The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its financial statements but does not expect it to have a material impact. Reclassification of Prior Period Balances Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current-year presentation including the reporting of provision for doubtful accounts as a separate line item on the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, as well as the reclassification of non-cash restructuring costs from the depreciation and amortization expenses on the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in 2016. These reclassifications have no effect on the reported net income for three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016. 2. Sale of Adult Day Services Centers In order to focus on providing services to consumers in their homes, effective March1, 2017, the Company ceased the adult day services business and completed its sale of substantially all of the assets used in three adult day services centers in Illinois. The Company received proceeds of approximately $2.4million and recorded a pre-tax gain of $2.1million on the sale of the three adult day services centers. 9 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets A summary of the goodwill activity for the six months ended June30, 2017 is provided below: 10 The carrying amount and accumulated amortization of each identifiable intangible asset category consisted of the following as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016: Amortization expense related to the identifiable intangible assets amounted to $1.0million and $2.1 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively, and $1.3 million and $2.4 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. Goodwill, certificates of need, and state licenses are not amortized pursuant to ASC Topic 350. 4. Details of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts Prepaid expenses and other current assets consisted of the following: Accrued expenses consisted of the following: (1) The Company provides health insurance coverage to qualified union employees providing personal care services in Illinois through a Taft-Hartley multi-employer health and welfare plan under Section302(c)(5) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947. The Company s insurance contributions equal the amount reimbursed by the State of Illinois. Contributions are due within five business days from the date the funds are received from the State of Illinois. Amounts due of $0.9million and $2.2million for health insurance reimbursements and contributions were reflected in prepaid insurance and accrued insurance as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. 11 (2) As a condition of the sale of substantially all of the assets used in the Company s home health business to subsidiaries of LHC Group, Inc. ( LHCG ) in February 2013, the Company is responsible for any adjustments to Medicare and Medicaid billings prior to the closing. In connection with an internal evaluation of the Company s billing processes, the Company discovered documentation errors in a number of claims that it had submitted to Medicare. Consistent with applicable law, the Company voluntarily remitted $1.8million to the U.S. government in March 2014. As of June30, 2017, the Company, using its best judgment, has estimated a total of $0.4million for billing adjustments for 2013, 2012 and 2011 services which may be subject to Medicare audits. (3) Accrued severance represents amounts payable to terminated employees with employment and/or separation agreements with the Company. (4) Accrued restructuring includes reserves for lease commitments related to the closure of three adult day services centers in Illinois during the third quarter of 2016, unused contact center office space and fees related to termination of professional services relationships. 5. Long-Term Debt Long-term debt consisted of the following: In accordance with ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs, the Company has classified the debt issuance costs as current portion of long-term debt or long-term debt, less current portion as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016. Capital Leases On July12, 2014, September11, 2014 and April13, 2015, the Company executed three 48-month capital lease agreements for $2.7million, $1.4million and $0.4million, respectively, with First American Commercial Bancorp, Inc. The capital leases were entered into to finance property and equipment at the Company s support center. The underlying assets are included in Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. These capital lease obligations require monthly payments through September2019and have implicit interest rates that range from 3.0% to 3.6%. At the end of the term of each lease agreement, the Company has the option to purchase the assets covered by such lease agreement for $1. Effective October1, 2016, the Company entered into a 25-month capital lease agreement for $0.6million with Meridian Leasing Corporation. The capital lease was entered into to finance property and equipment for the Company s telephone systems. The underlying assets are included in Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization in the accompanying Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. These capital lease obligations require monthly payments through October 2018and have an implicit interest rate of 11.1%. At the end of the term, the Company has the option to purchase the assets for $1 per the lease agreement. The following is an analysis of the leased property under capital leases by major classes. 12 The future minimum payments for capital leases as of June30, 2017 are as follows: (1) Amount necessary to reduce net minimum lease payments to present value calculated at the Company s incremental borrowing rate at lease inception. (2) Included in the balance sheet as $1.5million of the current portion of long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs and $0.2million of the long-term debt, less current portion, net of debt issuance costs. Senior Secured Credit Facility On May8, 2017, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) to obtain a new credit facility with certain lenders and Capital One, N.A., as a lender and swing lender and as agent for all lenders. This credit facility totals $250.0 million, replaces the Company s previous senior secured credit facility totaling $125.0 million with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank as agent ( Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility , see description below for more details), and terminates the Company s Second Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of November10, 2015.The new credit facility includes a $125.0 million revolving loan, a $45.0 million term loan and an $80.0 million delayed draw term loan. The maturity of the new credit facility is five years, although the delayed draw term loan is only available until November8, 2018. Under the terms of an accordion feature of the Credit Agreement, $100.0 million is also available for incremental term loans. Fundings under the delayed draw term loans and the incremental term loans are limited to financing or refinancing Permitted Acquisitions (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The availability of additional draws under the revolving credit portion of the Company s new credit facility is conditioned, among other things, upon (after giving effect to such draws) the ratio of Consolidated Total Indebtedness (as defined in the Credit Agreement), less subordinated indebtedness, to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) not exceeding 4.25:1.00. In connection with the new credit facility, the Company incurred $2.8 million of debt issuance costs. Addus HealthCare is the borrower, with the Company and substantially all of the subsidiaries of the Company as guarantors under the new credit facility. The new credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of the Company s and the other credit parties current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrower and subsidiaries. Interest on the Company s new credit facility may be payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% based on the applicable senior leverage ratio (provided that the applicable margin will be 1.50% through approximately October31, 2017) plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day (not to be less than 0.00%) plus a margin of 1.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.50% to 3.25% based on the applicable leverage ratio (provided that the applicable margin will be 2.50% through approximately October31, 2017) plus (ii)the offered rate per annum for the applicable interest period that appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page. Swing loans may not be LIBOR loans. The Company pays a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the new credit facility (provided that the fee will be 0.25% through approximately October31, 2017). For the period May8, 2017 through June30, 2017, the Company did not make any draws on the revolving credit line under the new credit facility. As of June30, 2017, the Company had a total of $45.0million outstanding on the new credit facility and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $86.5million. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The Credit Agreement also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (provided that Addus HealthCare may make distributions to the Company in an amount that does not exceed $5.0 million in any year absent of an event of default, plus limited exceptions for tax and administrative distributions), a restriction on the ability to consummate acquisitions in amounts exceeding $60.0 million individually and $80.0 million in the aggregate each year (in each case, without the consent of the lenders), restrictions on mergers, dispositions of assets, and affiliate transactions, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. As of June30, 2017, the Company was in compliance with all of its new credit facility covenants. Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility Prior to May8, 2017, the Company was a party to the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank, as agent and letters of credit issuer. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility provided a $100.0million revolving line of credit, a delayed draw term loan facility of up to $25.0million and an uncommitted incremental term loan facility of up to $50.0million, which was to expire on November10, 2020 and included a $35.0million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility increased the specified advance multiple from 3.25 to 3.75 to 1.00 and the maximum permitted senior leverage ratio from 3.50 to 4.00 to 1.00. Except as modified by the May24, 2016 amendment, the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility contained the same material terms as the previous agreement dated November10, 2015. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings were co-borrowers, and Holdings had guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility was secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of the Company s Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility was based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the terminated credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements had been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.75, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$100.0million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility might have been payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would have been applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day plus a margin of 3.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the adjusted LIBOR that would have been applicable to a loan with an interest period of one, two or three months advanced on the applicable day or (z)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the daily floating LIBOR that would have been applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day. The Company paid a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%per annum based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the credit facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit were charged at a rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans payable quarterly. On May8, 2017, the Company repaid the outstanding debt balance of $23.8 million together with accrued interest of $0.1 million and terminated the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility. In connection with the termination, the Company wrote off the unamortized debt issuance costs under the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility in the amount of $1.3 million, which was included in interest expense on the Company s Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. For the period January1, 2017 through May7, 2017, the Company drew and subsequently repaid $20.0 million of its revolving credit line to fund operations.As of December31, 2016, the Company had a total of $24.1million outstanding on the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $79.7million. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility contained customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility also contained certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, included a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, the Company was in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility after giving effect thereto, the Company had an excess availability of at least 40% of the revolving credit commitment under the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility and the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid in any fiscal year did not exceed $5.0 million), restrictions on the Company s ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, consummate any individual acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $25.0million and consummate acquisitions with total purchase price in excess of $40.0million in the aggregate over the term of the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. As of December31, 2016, the Company was in compliance with all of its Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility covenants. 13 6. Income Taxes A reconciliation of the statutory federal tax rate of 35.0% for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 34.9% for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 is summarized as follows: 7. Commitments and Contingencies Legal Proceedings From time to time, the Company is subject to legal and/or administrative proceedings incidental to its business. It is the opinion of management that the outcome of pending legal and/or administrative proceedings will not have a material effect on the Company s financial position and results of operations. On January20, 2016, the Company was served with a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against the Company and Cigna Corporation by Stop Illinois Marketing Fraud, LLC, a qui tam relator formed for the purpose of bringing this action. In the action, the plaintiff alleges, inter alia, violations of the federal False Claims Act relating primarily to allegations of violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and allegedly improper referrals of patients from the Company s home care division to the Company s home health business, substantially all of which was sold in 2013. The plaintiff seeks to recover damages, fees and costs under the federal False Claims Act including treble damages, civil penalties and its attorneys fees. The U.S. government has declined to intervene at this time. Plaintiff amended its complaint on April4, 2016 to include additional allegations in support of its False Claims Act claims, including alleged violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The Company and Cigna Corporation filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on June6, 2016. On February3, 2017, the Court granted Cigna Corporation s motion to dismiss in full, and granted the Company s motion to dismiss in part allowing Plaintiff another chance to amend its complaint. Plaintiff timely filed a second amended complaint on March10, 2017, withdrawing its conspiracy claim under the Federal False Claims Act and adding an explicit claim under the Illinois False Claims Act for the same underlying kickback allegations. On April7, 2017, the Company filed a partial motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint, which has not yet been ruled on by the court. On May24, 2017, the State of Illinois filed notice that it was declining to intervene in the plaintiff s claim under the Illinois False Claims Act. The Company intends to defend the litigation vigorously and believes the case will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. On May4, 2016, the Company, together with 59 other social service and healthcare providers in the State of Illinois, filed an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois against certain individuals in their official capacities as agents of the Illinois Department of Human Services, the Illinois Department on Aging, the Illinois Department of Public Health, the Illinois Department of HealthCare and Family Services, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, the Illinois Department of Corrections and the Illinois Department of Central Management Services, including the Governor of Illinois. On July20, 2016, a third amended complaint was filed by the plaintiffs, who now comprise 97 similarly situated providers and provider organizations. In the action, the plaintiffs, including the Company, allege to have entered into contracts with the various defendants based in part on the Governor s proposed budget, which provided for funding for the services to be provided by plaintiffs thereunder. The Governor subsequently vetoed all of the relevant appropriations bills on June25, 2015 and again vetoed an appropriations bill that included funding for the contracts on June10, 2016. While the defendant officer and agency heads have continued to enforce such contracts, since August1, 2016, the Company received an aggregate of approximately $65.4million in payments from the State of Illinois from the stopgap budget enacted on June30, 2016. In those actions, plaintiffs alleged the defendant officers and agency heads acted beyond the scope of their legal authority in entering into and enforcing contracts with no intent to perform under such contracts by failing to pay amounts due thereunder when due. The action also alleged that the Governor of Illinois vetoes of appropriations for such contracts violated the Illinois Constitution. Plaintiffs sought injunctive relief to payment of overdue bills to prevent irreparable harm, including imperiling the State of Illinois s infrastructure for delivery of human services. On August31, 2016, the Court denied plaintiffs petitions for declaratory and injunctive relief and dismissed the actions with prejudice. Plaintiffs timely filed a notice of appeal on September30, 2016 and have requested permission to extend the deadline for the petition until September 30, 2017, while monitoring the receipt of delayed payments pursuant to the recently adopted Illinois budget. Employment Agreements The Company has entered into employment agreements with certain members of senior management. The terms of these agreements are up to four years with auto-renewal provisions thereafter, and include non-compete and nondisclosure provisions, as well as provide for defined severance payments in the event of termination. A substantial percentage of the Company s workforce is represented by the Service Employees International Union ( SEIU ). The Company has a national agreement with the SEIU which is currently under negotiation, as well as numerous agreements with local SEIU affiliates which are renegotiated from time to time. These negotiations are often initiated when the Company receives increases in hourly rates from various state agencies. Upon expiration of these collective bargaining agreements, the Company may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms with these labor unions. 8. Severance and Restructuring In 2016, the Company initiated steps to streamline its operations. The Company incurred total expenses related to these initiatives of approximately $50 thousand and $0.9 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, respectively, and approximately $0.8 million and $4.3 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. These costs are included in general and administrative expenses on the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company expects some additional restructuring and other costs to occur, however, the amount and timing cannot be determined at this time. The expenses recorded for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 included costs related to terminated employees and fees related to termination of professional services relationships. The expenses recorded for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 included costs related to terminated employees and other direct costs associated with implementing these initiatives. Other direct costs included contract termination costs, accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs. 14 The following provides the components of and changes in our severance and restructuring accruals: Employee termination costs represent accrued severance payable to terminated employees with employment and/or separation agreements with the Company. The terminations resulted mainly from changes made to the executive leadership team made during the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016. Restructuring and other costs comprised of fees for the termination of professional services relationships for the six months ended June 30, 2017 and fees for the termination of an employee incentive program and various contracts with outside vendors for the six months ended June30, 2016. The aforementioned accruals are included in Accrued Expenses on the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the aforementioned expenses are included in General and Administrative Expenses on the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 9. Significant Payors A substantial portion of the Company s net service revenues and accounts receivable are derived from services performed for federal, state and local governmental agencies. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 36.7% and 43.5% of the Company s net service revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively and 36.6% and 44.1% of the Company s net service revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The related receivables due from the Illinois Department on Aging represented 56.4% and 55.4% of the Company s accounts receivable at June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. The State of Illinois s payments have been delayed in the past and may continue to be delayed in the future due to a budget impasse that began in 2015. The State of Illinois did not adopt a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2016, which ended on June30, 2016, or a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2017, which ended on June30, 2017. On July6, 2017, the State of Illinois passed a balanced state budget for fiscal year 2018, which began on July1, 2017. With this budget, the State of Illinois is authorized to pay for the Non-Medicaid consumers the Company serves for prior fiscal years. Accounts receivable attributable to delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging totaled $73.8 million as of June30, 2017. Subsequent to the State of Illinois s passing of the fiscal 2018 budget, in July 2017, the Company began receiving delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging. Through August4, 2017, the Company has received an aggregate of 69.4million in delayed payments. 10. Concentration of Cash Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash. The Company maintains cash with financial institutions which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash. 11. Subsequent Events Not Disclosed Elsewhere On April24, 2017, the Company entered into a definitive securities purchase agreement with HB Management Group, Inc. to purchase Options Services, Inc. d/b/a Options Home Care ( Options Home Care ). On August1, 2017, the Company completed its acquisition of all the outstanding securities of Options Homecare for a total purchase price of $23.2 million. Options Home Care is a provider of personal care services in more than 20 counties in New Mexico and the acquisition expands the footprint of the Company s existing operations in the state. 15 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements about our business and operations. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that include words like believes, belief, expects, plans, anticipates, intends, projects, estimates, may, might, would, should and similar expressions are intended to be forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described therein. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December31, 2016, filed on March15, 2017. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified, you should not rely on any forward-looking statement as a prediction of future events. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking and we do not intend to release publicly any updates or changes in our expectations concerning the forward-looking statements or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances upon which any forward-looking statement may be based, except as required by law. Overview We operate as one business segment and are a provider of comprehensive personal care services, which are provided principally in the home. Our personal care services provide assistance with activities of daily living. Our consumers are primarily persons who are at risk of hospitalization or institutionalization, such as the elderly, chronically ill and disabled. Our payor clients include federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private individuals. As of June30, 2017, we provided personal care services to approximately 34,000 consumers through 110 locations across 24 states. For the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, we served approximately 42,000 and 40,000 discrete consumers, respectively. A summary of our financial results for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 is provided in the table below: Our services are predominantly provided in the home under agreements with state and local government agencies. Our consumers are predominately dual eligible, meaning they are eligible to receive both Medicare and Medicaid benefits. The federal government permits states to initiate dual eligible demonstration programs and other managed Medicaid initiatives designed to coordinate the services provided through Medicare and Medicaid, with the overall objective of improving care quality and reducing costs. States are increasingly implementing managed care programs to deliver healthcare services to Medicaid enrollees. Managed care organizations have an economic incentive to better manage the healthcare expenditures of their membership, and therefore seek to provide care in a more cost-effective setting, such as a patient s home. Managed care revenues accounted for 31.3% and 24.3% of our revenue mix during the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 31.8% and 23.7% of our revenue mix during the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our model is designed to improve consumer outcomes and satisfaction, as well as lower the cost of acute care treatment and reduce service duplication. We believe our model to be especially valuable to managed care organizations that have economic responsibility for both personal care services as well as acute care expenditures. We believe our model is a differentiator and as a result we expect to receive increased referrals from managed care organizations. The personal care services we provide include assistance with bathing, grooming, oral care, assistance with feeding and dressing, medication reminders, meal planning and preparation, housekeeping and transportation services and other activities of daily living. We provide these non-medical services on a long-term, continuous basis, with an average duration of approximately 26 months per consumer. We utilize home care aides to observe and report changes in the condition of our consumers for the purpose of early intervention in the disease process, with the goal of reducing the cost of medical services by preventing unnecessary emergency room visits and/or hospital admissions and re-admissions. We coordinate the services provided by our team with those of other healthcare agencies as appropriate. Changes in our consumer s conditions are evaluated by appropriately trained managers and may result in the condition being reported to the consumer s case manager at the managed care organization or other payor and in some cases to the consumer s primary care physicians for treatment or other follow-up. We believe this approach to the care of our consumers and the integration of our services into the broader healthcare continuum are attractive to managed care organizations and other payors who are ultimately responsible for the healthcare needs and costs of our consumers. We utilize Interactive Voice Response ( IVR ) systems and smart phone applications to communicate with the majority of our home care aides. Through these technologies our aides are able to report changes in health conditions with alerts forwarded to an appropriate manager for triage and evaluation.In addition, we use this technology to record basic transaction information about each visit, record start and end times for a scheduled shift, track mileage reimbursement, send text messages to the home care aide and communicate basic payroll information. In addition to our focus on organic growth, we have been growing through selective acquisitions, which have expanded our presence in current markets or which have facilitated our entry into new markets where the personal care business has been moving to managed care organizations. On April24, 2017, we entered into a definitive securities purchase agreement with HB Management Group, Inc. to purchase Options Services, Inc. d/b/a Options Home Care ( Options Home Care ). On August 1, 2017, we completed our acquisition of all the outstanding securities of Options Homecare for a total purchase price $23.2 million. Options Home Care is a provider of personal care services in more than 20 counties in New Mexico and the acquisition expands the footprint of our existing operations in the state. 16 Business As of June30, 2017, we provided our personal care services through 110 locations across 24 states. Our payor clients are principally federal, state and local governmental agencies and, increasingly, managed care organizations. The federal, state and local programs under which the agencies operate are subject to legislative, budgetary and other risks that can influence reimbursement rates. We are experiencing a transition of business from government payors to managed care organizations with which we are seeking to grow our business given our emphasis on coordinated care and the reduction of the need for acute care. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 our payor revenue mix was: We derive a significant amount of our net service revenues from our operations in Illinois, which represented 52.7% and 53.7% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Net service revenues from our operations in Illinois represented 52.9% and 54.2% of our total net service revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. A significant amount of our net service revenues are derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 36.7% and 43.5% of our total net service revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Illinois Department on Aging accounted for 36.6% and 44.1% of our total net service revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The State of Illinois s payments have been delayed in the past and may continue to be delayed in the future due to a budget impasse that began in 2015. The State of Illinois did not adopt a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2016, which ended on June30, 2016, or a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2017, which ended on June30, 2017. On July6, 2017, the State of Illinois passed a balanced budget for state fiscal year 2018, which began on July1, 2017. With this budget, the State of Illinois is authorized to pay for the Non-Medicaid consumers we serve for prior years. Accounts receivable attributable to delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging totaled $73.8 million as of June30, 2017. Subsequent to the State of Illinois s passing of the fiscal 2018 budget, in July 2017, we began receiving delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging. Through August4, 2017, we have received an aggregate of $69.4 million in delayed payments. We measure the performance of our business using a number of different metrics, including billable hours, billable hours per business day, revenues per billable hour and the number of consumers, or census. Components of our Statements of Income Net Service Revenues We generate net service revenues by providing our services directly to consumers and primarily on an hourly basis. We receive payment for providing such services from our payor clients, including federal, state and local governmental agencies, managed care organizations, commercial insurers and private consumers. Net service revenues are principally provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant agency, at an hourly rate which is either contractual or fixed by legislation and are recognized at the time services are rendered. Cost of Service Revenues We incur direct care wages, payroll taxes and benefit-related costs in connection with providing our services. We also provide workers compensation and general liability coverage for our employees. Employees are also reimbursed for their travel time and related travel costs. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses include our costs for operating our network of local agencies and our administrative offices. Our agency expenses consist of costs for supervisory personnel, our community care supervisors and office administrative costs. Personnel costs include wages, payroll taxes, and employee benefits. Facility costs including rents, utilities, postage, telephone and office expenses. Our support center and executive office includes costs for accounting, information systems, human resources, billing and collections, contracting, marketing and executive leadership. These expenses consist of compensation, including stock-based compensation, payroll taxes, employee benefits, legal, accounting and other professional fees, travel, general insurance, rents and related facility costs. In 2016, we initiated steps to streamline our operations. We incurred total expenses related to these initiatives of approximately $50 thousand and $0.9 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2017, and approximately $0.8 million and $4.3 million for the three and six months ended June30, 2016, respectively. These costs are included in general and administrative expenses. We expect some additional restructuring and other costs to occur, however, the amount and timing cannot be determined at this time. The expenses recorded for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 included costs related to terminated employees and fees related to termination of professional services relationships. The expenses recorded for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 included costs related to terminated employees and other direct costs associated with implementing these initiatives. Other direct costs included contract termination costs, accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses We amortize our intangible assets with finite lives, consisting of customer and referral relationships, trade names, trademarks and non-compete agreements, principally using accelerated methods based upon their estimated useful lives. Depreciable assets consist principally of furniture and equipment, network administration and telephone equipment, and operating system software. Depreciable and leasehold assets are depreciated or amortized on a straight-line method over their useful lives or, if less and if applicable, their lease terms. Provision for Doubtful Accounts We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. 17 Interest Income Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, we did not receive any prompt payment interest. Interest Expense Interest expense is reported in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income when incurred and consists of (i)interest and unused credit line fees on our new credit facility and our Terminated Senior Credit Facility (as defined under Senior Secured Credit Facility below), (ii)interest on our capital lease obligations and (iii) amortization and write-off of debt issuance costs. Other Income For the three and six months ended June30, 2017, other income of $43.8 thousand and $0.1 million, respectively, consisted of income distributions received from the cost method investment in joint venture. No distributions were received during the three and six months ended June30, 2016. We account for this income in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 325, Investments Other. We recognize the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. Our federal statutory rate was 35.0% and 34.9% for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 35.0% and 34.9% for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The effective income tax rate was 30.2% and 30.3% for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 32.1% and 30.4% for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The difference between federal statutory and effective income tax rates is principally due to the inclusion of state taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. Results of Operations Three Months Ended June30, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended June30, 2016 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations. (1) Average billable census is the number of unique clients receiving a billable service during a period. (2) Billable hours is the total number of hours provided to clients during a period. 18 Net service revenues from federal, state, local and other governmental programs accounted for 66.0% and 72.2% of net service revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Managed care organizations accounted for 31.3% and 24.3% of net service revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, with commercial insurance payors and private pay accounting for the remainder of net service revenues.A significant amount of our net service revenues for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 36.7% and 43.5% respectively, of our total net service revenues. Net service revenues increased by $2.6million, or 2.6%, to $103.6million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to $100.9million for the same period in 2016. The increase was primarily due to a 2.4% increase in revenues per billable hour in the three months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016. Gross margin increased to 27.5% for the three months ended June30, 2017, compared to 25.5% for the same period in 2016. This increase was primarily due to a $2.1 million reduction in direct service costs associated with salariesand benefits, travel mileage and unbillable errand miles for the three months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the three months ended June30, 2016. General and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues increased to 18.4% for the three months ended June30, 2017, from 17.6% for the three months ended June30, 2016. General and administrative expenses increased to $19.0million as compared to $17.7million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a $1.5 million increase in administrative employee wages, taxes and benefit costs, a $0.4 million increase in professional fees and a $0.4 million increase in acquisition expenses, offset by a decrease in severance and restructuring costs in the total amount of $0.8 million related to our initiatives to streamline operations which began in 2016. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased to $1.5 million for the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the second quarter of 2016 at $1.7million. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $0.3 million in amortization expense of customer and referral relationships and non-competition intangibles totaling $1.1million and $1.3 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Provision for doubtful accounts increased by $0.3 million to $2.1 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 compared to $1.8 million for the same period in 2016. The increase was primarily due to additional reserves needed for acquisition transitions. Six Months Ended June30, 2017 Compared to Six Months Ended June30, 2016 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations. (1) Average billable census is the number of unique clients receiving a billable service during a period. (2) Billable hours is the total number of hours provided to clients during a period. 19 Net service revenues from federal, state, local and other governmental programs accounted for 65.4% and 72.7% of net service revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Managed care organizations accounted for 31.8% and 23.7% of net service revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, with commercial insurance payors and private pay accounting for the remainder of net service revenues.A significant amount of our net service revenues for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were derived from one payor client, the Illinois Department on Aging, which accounted for 36.6% and 44.1% respectively, of our total net service revenues. Net service revenues increased $11.6million, or 6.0%, to $205.2million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to $193.5million for the same period in 2016. The increase was primarily due to a 4.1% increase in billable hours and a 1.8% increase in revenues per billable hour in the six months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016. Gross margin increased to 27.2% for the six months ended June30, 2017, compared to 25.8% for the six months ended June30, 2016. This increase was primarily due to a $2.8 million reduction in direct service costs associated with salariesand benefits, travel mileage and unbillable errand miles for the six months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the six months ended June30, 2016. General and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net service revenues decreased to 18.4% for the six months ended June30, 2017, from 19.9% for the six months ended June30, 2016. General and administrative expenses decreased to $37.9million as compared to $38.6million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease in severance and restructuring costs in the total amount of $3.4 million and a decrease in telephone expenses of $0.8 million resulting from streamlining our operations and costs saving initiatives. These decreases were offset by an increase in administrative employee wages, taxes and benefit costs of $3.7 million. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased to $3.0 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 as compared to $3.2million for the six months ended June30, 2016. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $0.3 million in amortization expense of customer and referral relationships and non-competition intangibles totaling $2.1million and $2.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016. Provision for doubtful accounts increased by $0.9 million to $4.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to $3.2 million for the same period in 2016. The increase was primarily due to additional reserves needed for certain managed care organizations and acquisition transitions. Interest Income Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, we did not receive any prompt payment interest. Interest Expense Interest expense increased to $2.1million from $0.7million for the three months ended June30, 2017 as compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to the write-off of the unamortized debt issuance costs in the amount of $1.3 million upon the termination of our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility on May8, 2017. For the six months ended June30, 2017 as compared to June30, 2016, interest expense increased to $2.8 million from $1.1 million, primarily due to the write-off of the unamortized debt issuance costs in the amount of $1.3 million upon the termination of our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility on May8, 2017, as well as increased interest expense due to the higher outstanding term loan balance under our new senior secured credit facility. See Note 5 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) Long-Term Debt for additional information. Other Income For the three and six months ended June30, 2017, other income of $43.8 thousand and $0.1million, respectively, consisted of income distributions received from the cost method investment in joint venture. No distributions were received during the three and six months ended June30, 2016. We account for this income in accordance with ASC Topic 325, Investments Other. We recognize the net accumulated earnings only to the extent distributed by the joint venture on the date received. Income Tax Expense All of our income is from domestic sources. We incur state and local taxes in states in which we operate. Our federal statutory rate was 35.0% and 34.9% for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 35.0% and 34.9% for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The effective income tax rate was 30.2% and 30.3% for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 32.1% and 30.4% for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The difference between our federal statutory and effective income tax rates are principally due to the inclusion of state taxes and the use of federal employment tax credits that lower our effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operations and borrowings under our new credit facility. As described below under Senior Secured Credit Facility , we entered into a new credit facility on May8, 2017 that replaced our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility (see Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility below). At June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, we had cash balances of $15.9million and $8.0million, respectively. 20 As of June30, 2017, we had a total of $45.0million outstanding on our new credit facility. After giving effect to the amount drawn on our new credit facility, approximately $11.9million of outstanding letters of credit as of June30, 2017, and borrowing limits based on an advance multiple of adjusted EBITDA, we had $86.5 million available for borrowing under our new credit facility as of June30, 2017. As of December31, 2016, we had a total of $24.1million outstanding on our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility. After giving effect to the amount drawn on the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility, approximately $16.7million of outstanding letters of credit as of December31, 2016, and borrowing limits based on an advance multiple of adjusted EBITDA, we had $79.7million available for borrowing under the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility as of December31, 2016. Cash flows from operating activities represent the inflow of cash from our payor clients and the outflow of cash for payroll and payroll taxes, operating expenses, interest and taxes. Due to its revenue deficiencies as well as budgeting and financing issues, from time to time the State of Illinois has reimbursed us on a delayed basis with respect to our various agreements including with our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging. The open receivable balance from the State of Illinois increased by $17.7 million from $69.3million as of December31, 2016 to $87.0 million as of June30, 2017. The State of Illinois s payments have been delayed in the past and may continue to be delayed in the future due to a budget impasse that began in 2015. The State of Illinois did not adopt a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2016, which ended on June30, 2016, or a comprehensive budget for fiscal year 2017, which ended on June30, 2017. On July6, 2017, the State of Illinois passed a balanced budget for state fiscal year 2018, which began on July1, 2017. With this budget, the State of Illinois is authorized to pay for the Non-Medicaid consumers we serve for prior fiscal years. Accounts receivable attributable to delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging totaled $73.8 million as of June30, 2017. Subsequent to the State of Illinois s passing of the fiscal 2018 budget, in July 2017, we began receiving delayed payments from the Illinois Department on Aging. Through August4, 2017, we have received an aggregate of 69.4 million in delayed payments. There remains uncertainty surrounding future year budgets. If future budgets are not enacted timely payments from the State of Illinois could be delayed in the future. The delays could adversely impact our liquidity and result in the need to increase borrowings under our new credit facility or cause us to pursue other liquidity options. Senior Secured Credit Facility On May8, 2017, we entered into a new credit facility and credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ) with certain lenders and Capital One, N.A., as a lender and swing lender and as agent for all lenders. This new credit facility totals $250.0 million, replaces our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility totaling $125.0 million with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank as agent ( Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility , see description below for more details), and terminates our Second Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of November10, 2015.The new credit facility includes a $125.0 million revolving loan, a $45.0 million term loan and an $80.0 million delayed draw term loan. The maturity of the new credit facility is five years, although the delayed draw term loan is only available until November8, 2018. Under the terms of an accordion feature of the Credit Agreement, $100.0 million is also available for incremental term loans. Fundings under the delayed draw term loans and the incremental term loans are limited to financing or refinancing Permitted Acquisitions (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The availability of additional draws under the revolving credit portion of our new credit facility is conditioned, among other things, upon (after giving effect to such draws) the ratio of Consolidated Total Indebtedness (as defined in the Credit Agreement), less subordinated indebtedness, to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) not exceeding 4.25:1.00. In connection with the new credit facility, we incurred $2.8 million of debt issuance costs. Addus HealthCare, Inc. ( Addus HealthCare ) is the borrower, with its parent, Addus HomeCare Corporation ( Holdings ), and substantially all of Holdings subsidiaries as guarantors under the new credit facility. The new credit facility is secured by a first priority security interest in all of our and the other credit parties current and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrower and subsidiaries. Interest on our new credit facility may be payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% based on the applicable senior leverage ratio (provided that the applicable margin will be 1.50% through approximately October31, 2017) plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would be applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day (not to be less than 0.00%) plus a margin of 1.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.50% to 3.25% based on the applicable leverage ratio (provided that the applicable margin will be 2.50% through approximately October31, 2017) plus (ii)the offered rate per annum for the applicable interest period that appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page. Swing loans may not be LIBOR loans. We pay a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the new credit facility (provided that the fee will be 0.25% through approximately October31, 2017). For the period May8, 2017 through June30, 2017, we did not make any draws on the revolving credit line under the new credit facility. As of June30, 2017, we had a total of $45.0million outstanding on the new credit facility and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $86.5million. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The Credit Agreement also contains certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (provided that Addus HealthCare may make distributions to us in an amount that does not exceed $5.0 million in any year absent of an event of default, plus limited exceptions for tax and administrative distributions), a restriction on the ability to consummate acquisitions in amounts exceeding $60.0 million individually and $80.0 million in the aggregate each year (in each case, without the consent of the lenders), restrictions on mergers, dispositions of assets, and affiliate transactions, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. As of June30, 2017, we were in compliance with all of our new credit facility covenants. 21 Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility Prior to May8, 2017, we were a party to the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility with certain lenders and Fifth Third Bank, as agent and letters of credit issuer. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility provided a $100.0million revolving line of credit, a delayed draw term loan facility of up to $25.0million and an uncommitted incremental term loan facility of up to $50.0million, which was to expire on November10, 2020 and included a $35.0million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility increased the specified advance multiple from 3.25 to 3.75 to 1.00 and the maximum permitted senior leverage ratio from 3.50 to 4.00 to 1.00. Except as modified by the May24, 2016, amendment, the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility contained the same material terms as the previous agreement dated November10, 2015. Substantially all of the subsidiaries of Holdings were co-borrowers, and Holdings had guaranteed the borrowers obligations under the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility was secured by a first priority security interest in all of Holdings and the borrowers then and future tangible and intangible assets, including the shares of stock of the borrowers. The availability of funds under the revolving credit portion of our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility was based on the lesser of (i)the product of adjusted EBITDA, as defined in our terminated credit agreement, for the most recent 12-month period for which financial statements had been delivered under the credit agreement multiplied by the specified advance multiple, up to 3.75, less the outstanding senior indebtedness and letters of credit, and (ii)$100.0million less the outstanding revolving loans and letters of credit. Interest on our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility might have been payable at (x)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)a base rate equal to the greatest of (a)the rate of interest last quoted by The Wall Street Journal as the prime rate, (b)the sum of the federal funds rate plus a margin of 0.50% and (c)the sum of the adjusted LIBOR that would have been applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day plus a margin of 3.00% or (y)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the adjusted LIBOR that would have been applicable to a loan with an interest period of one, two or three months advanced on the applicable day or (z)the sum of (i)an applicable margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.50% based on the applicable leverage ratio plus (ii)the daily floating LIBOR that would have been applicable to a loan with an interest period of one month advanced on the applicable day. We paid a fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.50%per annum based on the applicable leverage ratio times the unused portion of the revolving portion of the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility. Issued stand-by letters of credit were charged at a rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans payable quarterly. On May8, 2017, we repaid the outstanding debt balance of $23.8 million together with accrued interest of $0.1 million and terminated the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility. In connection with the termination, we wrote off the unamortized debt issuance costs under the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility in the amount of $1.3 million, which was included in interest expense on our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. For the period January1, 2017 through May7, 2017, we drew and subsequently repaid $20.0 million of our revolving credit line to fund operations.As of December31, 2016, we had a total of $24.1million outstanding on the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility and the total availability under the revolving credit loan facility was $79.7million. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility contained customary affirmative covenants regarding, among other things, the maintenance of records, compliance with laws, maintenance of permits, maintenance of insurance and property and payment of taxes. The Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility also contained certain customary financial covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, include a requirement to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a requirement to stay below a maximum senior leverage ratio and a requirement to stay below a maximum permitted amount of capital expenditures, as well as restrictions on guarantees, indebtedness, liens, distributions, investments and loans, subject to customary carve outs, a restriction on dividends (unless no default then exists or would occur as a result thereof, we were in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants contained in the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility after giving effect thereto, we had an excess availability of at least 40% of the revolving credit commitment under the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility and the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions paid in any fiscal year did not exceed $5.0 million), restrictions on our ability to enter into transactions other than in the ordinary course of business, a restriction on the ability to consummate more than three acquisitions in any calendar year, consummate any individual acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $25.0million and consummate acquisitions with total purchase price in excess of $40.0million in the aggregate over the term of the Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility, in each case without the consent of the lenders, restrictions on mergers, transfers of assets, acquisitions, equipment, subsidiaries and affiliate transactions, subject to customary carve outs, and restrictions on fundamental changes and lines of business. As of December31, 2016, we were in compliance with all of our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility covenants. If we do not have sufficient cash resources or availability under our Credit Agreement, or we are otherwise prohibited from making acquisitions under the terms of our Credit Agreement, our growth, including our ability to grow through acquisitions, could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing or the necessary consents from our lenders under our Credit Agreement. We believe the available borrowings under our Credit Agreement, combined with cash from operations, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs for at least the next 12months. Cash Flows The following table summarizes changes in our cash flows for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016: Six Months Ended June30, 2017 Compared to Six Months Ended June30, 2016 Net cash used in operating activities was $11.4million for the six months ended June30, 2017, compared to cash used in operating activities of $18.3million for the same period in 2016. This decrease in cash used in operations was primarily due to a decrease in net accounts receivable resulting from improved collections efforts resulting in reduced accounts receivable for many payors. Net cash provided by investing activities was $0.6million for the six months ended June30, 2017 compared to cash used in investing activities of $21.2million for the six months ended June30, 2016. Our investing activities for the six months ended June30, 2017 were $2.4million in proceeds from the sale of three adult day services centers and $1.8 million in purchases of property and equipment related to new office space and investments in our technology infrastructure. Our investing activities for the six months ended June30, 2016 consisted primarily of $20.4million for the acquisition of South Shore Home Health Services, Inc. ( South Shore ) and certain of its affiliated entities (collectively, the South Shore Acquisition ) completed on February5, 2016 and $0.7million in purchases of property and equipment related to new office space, investment in our technology infrastructure and vehicles for adult day centers. Net cash provided by financing activities was $18.6million for the six months ended June30, 2017 as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $43.6million for the six months ended June30, 2016. Our financing activities for the six months ended June30, 2017 were borrowings of $45.0 million on the term loan portion of our new senior secured credit facility, $20.0million in draws and subsequent repayments on the revolver portion of our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility, $24.1million of payments on the term loan portion of our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility, $1.2million in cash received from exercise of stock options, and $0.7million of payments on capital lease obligations. Our financing activities for the six months ended June30, 2016 consisted primarily of a $42.0 million draw on our Terminated Senior Secured Credit Facility to fund operations and the South Shore Acquisition, $3.0 million of cash received for the exercise of employee stock options, a $0.1 million payment for the contingent earn-out obligation related to our December1, 2013 acquisition of Coordinated Home Health Care, LLC, $0.9 million of payments on long-term debt, and $0.5 million payment for debt issuance. 22 Outstanding Accounts Receivable Gross accounts receivable as of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 were approximately $147.1million and $124.4 million, respectively. Outstanding accounts receivable, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts, increased by $21.0million as of June30, 2017 as compared to December31, 2016. The increase in net accounts receivable was primarily due to the delay in the State of Illinois s 2017 budget resulting in an increase of $17.6 million net accounts receivable from the Illinois Department on Aging. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. Our collection procedures include review of account aging and direct contact with our payors. We have historically not used collection agencies. An uncollectible amount is written off to the allowance account after reasonable collection efforts have been exhausted. The following tables detail our accounts receivable before reserves by payor category, showing Illinois governmental payors separately, and the related allowance amount at June30, 2017 and December31, 2016: We calculate our days sales outstanding ( DSO ) by taking the accounts receivable outstanding net of the allowance for doubtful accounts divided by the total net service revenues for the last quarter, multiplied by the number of days in that quarter. Our DSOs were 121 days and 104 days at June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, respectively. The DSOs for our largest payor, the Illinois Department on Aging, at June30, 2017 and December31, 2016 were 197 days and 152 days, respectively. We may not receive payments on a consistent basis in the near term and our DSOs and the DSO for the Illinois Department on Aging may increase despite the State of Illinois s enactment of a fiscal year 2018 budget on July6, 2017. The increase in the reserve as a percentage of gross accounts receivable to 6.2% as of June30, 2017 from 5.9% as of December31, 2016 was attributable to additional reserves needed for managed care organizations and acquisition transitions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June30, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet guarantees or arrangements with unconsolidated entities. 23 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ). The preparation of the financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expense and related disclosures. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other sources and factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. We consider the items discussed below to be critical because of their impact on operations and their application requires our judgment and estimates. Revenue Recognition The majority of our revenues for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were derived from Medicaid and Medicaid waiver programs under agreements with various state and local authorities. These agreements provide for a service term from one year to an indefinite term. Services are provided based on authorized hours, determined by the relevant state or local agency, at an hourly rate specified in the agreement or fixed by legislation and recognized in net service revenues as services are provided. Services to other payors, such as managed care organizations and commercial insurance or private clients, are provided at negotiated hourly rates and recognized in net service revenues as services are provided. We provide for appropriate allowances for uncollectible amounts at the time the services are rendered. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We are paid for our services primarily by state and local agencies under Medicaid or Medicaid waiver programs, managed care organizations, commercial insurance companies and private consumers. While our accounts receivable are uncollateralized, our credit risk is somewhat limited due to the significance of governmental payors to our results of operations. Laws and regulations governing the governmental programs in which we participate are complex and subject to interpretation. Amounts collected may be different than amounts billed due to client eligibility issues, insufficient or incomplete documentation, services at levels other than authorized and other reasons unrelated to credit risk. Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received and reported in the income statement caption, interest income. We did not receive any prompt payment interest for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016. We establish our allowance for doubtful accounts to the extent it is probable that a portion or all of a particular account will not be collected. We establish our provision for doubtful accounts primarily by analyzing historical trends and the aging of receivables. In our evaluation, we consider other factors including: delays in payment trends in individual states due to budget or funding issues; billing conversions related to acquisitions or internal systems; resubmission of bills with required documentation and disputes with specific payors. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that our management believes is sufficient to cover potential losses. However, actual collections could differ from our estimates. Goodwill Our carrying value of goodwill is the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired from various acquisitions including the acquisition of Addus HealthCare. In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, as of October1, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur, such as a significant change in business climate or regulatory changes that would indicate that an impairment may have occurred. We may use a qualitative test, known as Step 0, or a two-step quantitative method to determine whether impairment has occurred. We can elect to perform Step 0, an optional qualitative analysis, and based on the results skip the remaining two steps. In 2016, we elected to implement Step 0, and we were not required to conduct the remaining two steps. The results of our Step 0 assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and therefore we concluded that there were no impairments for the year ended December31, 2016. No impairment charges were recorded for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 or 2016. Intangible Assets We review our finite lived intangibles for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. To determine if impairment exists, we compare the estimated future undiscounted cash flows from the related long-lived assets to the net carrying amount of such assets. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset, generally determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows. No impairment charges were recorded for the year ended December31, 2016 or the three and six months ended June30, 2017 or 2016. We also have indefinite-lived assets that are not subject to amortization expense such as licenses and in certain states certificates of need to conduct specific operations within geographic markets. Our management has concluded that these assets have indefinite lives, as management has determined that there are no legal, regulatory, contractual, economic or other factors that would limit the useful life of these intangible assets and we intend to renew the licenses indefinitely. The licenses and certificates of need are tested annually for impairment, or whenever potential impairment triggers occur. No impairment charges were recorded for the year ended December31, 2016 or the three and six months ended June30, 2017 or 2016. Workers Compensation Program Our workers compensation insurance program has a $0.4million deductible component. We recognize our obligations associated with this program in the period the claim is incurred. The cost of both the claims reported and claims incurred but not reported, up to the deductible, have been accrued based on historical claims experience, industry statistics and an actuarial analysis performed by an independent third party. We monitor our claims quarterly and adjust our reserves accordingly. These costs are recorded primarily as the cost of services in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Under the agreement pursuant to which we acquired Addus HealthCare, claims under our workers compensation insurance program that related to December31, 2005 or earlier were the responsibility of the selling shareholders in the acquisition, subject to certain limitations. The responsibility of the selling shareholders for these claims was terminated on December29, 2014. In August 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update No 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954), Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries ( ASU 2010-24 ), which clarifies that companies should not net insurance recoveries against a related claim liability. Additionally, under ASU 2010-24, the amount of the claim liability should be determined without consideration of insurance recoveries. As of June30, 2017 and December31, 2016, we recorded $0.5million and $0.7million, respectively, in workers compensation insurance recovery receivables and a corresponding increase in workers compensation liability. The workers compensation insurance recovery receivable is included in our prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Interest Income Illinois law entitles designated service program providers to receive a prompt payment interest penalty based on qualifying services approved for payment that remain unpaid after a designated period of time. As the amount and timing of the receipt of these payments are not certain, the interest income is recognized when received. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016, we did not receive any prompt payment interest. 24 Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the provisions of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. The objective of accounting for income taxes is to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Deferred taxes, resulting from differences between the financial and tax basis of our assets and liabilities, are also adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. ASC Topic 740 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. ASC Topic 740 also prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement process for recording in the financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In addition, ASC Topic 740 provides guidance on derecognition, classification, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. Stock-based Compensation We currently have two active stock incentive plans, the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the 2009 Plan ) and the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan , and together with the 2009 Plan, the Plans ), that provides for stock-based employee compensation. We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Stock Compensation. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis under the Plans over the vesting period of the equity awards based on the grant date fair value of the options and restricted stock awards. From October28, 2009 to December31, 2016, we utilized the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial Model to value our options. Beginning January1, 2017, we began utilizing the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model to value our options, as we believe it is a more widely accepted and understood valuation model. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payments utilizing the Black-Scholes Model and the Enhanced Hull-White Trinomial Model is affected by our stock price and a number of assumptions, including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected term, expected dividends yield, expected forfeiture rate, expected turn-over rate and the expected exercise multiple. New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. ASU2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and will be effective for us as of January1, 2018. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or modified retrospective (cumulative effect) transition method and we have selected the modified retrospective approach. Our evaluation of ASU 2014-09 is not complete. The FASB has issued and may issue in the future, interpretative guidance, which may cause our evaluation to change. We have completed the initial review to determine the impact ASU 2014-09 and its subsequent updates will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements or financial statement disclosures upon adoption. Based on our continued review, we believe that the timing and measurement of revenue for our customers will be similar to our current revenue recognition model due to the structure of payor contracts which consists of a fixed reimbursement rate that is deemed earned upon completion of a defined service. In addition, we have made ongoing progress around process changes and system enhancements to ensure adherence to the new standard. We will complete our assessment of the impact and finalize implementation of system enhancements during the remainder of 2017. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02, Leases, which replaces existing leasing rules with a comprehensive lease measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. ASU 2016-02 will require lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets as liabilities, with corresponding right-of-use assets and is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December15, 2018, subject to early adoption. For income statement recognition purposes, leases will be classified as either a finance or an operating lease. We will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. Upon initial evaluation, we believe that the new standard will have a material impact on our Consolidated Balance Sheets but it will not affect our liquidity. It has been determined that we will need to secure new software to account for the change in accounting for leases and are currently reviewing the software options available. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-13, Financial Instruments (Topic 326) Credit Losses. ASU 2016-13 changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments. Under the new standard, entities holding financial assets, including accounts receivables and net investment in leases that are not accounted for at fair value through net income are to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. An allowance for credit losses will be a valuation account that will be deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. ASU 2016-13 is effective as of January1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This standardamends and adjusts how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.ASU 2016-15is effective for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years, and will require adoption on a retrospective basis unless impracticable. If impracticable we would be required to apply the amendments prospectively as of the earliest date possible. We are currently evaluating the impact that ASU 2016-15 will have on our statement of cash flows. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. The new guidance eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill (i.e., Step 2 of the current goodwill impairment test) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Instead, entities will record an impairment charge based on the excess of a reporting unit s carrying amount over its fair value (i.e., measure the charge based on the current Step 1). ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual and any interim impairment tests for periods beginning after December15, 2019. We are currently evaluating the provisions of ASU 2017-04 to determine how our goodwill impairment testing will be impacted and whether we may elect to adopt ASU 2017-04 prior to the stated effective date. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation Stock Compensation: Scope of Modification Accounting. ASU 2017-19 clarifies when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification. Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions. This pronouncement is effective for annual periods, and for interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, and is applied prospectively to changes in terms or conditions of awards occurring on or after the adoption date. We are evaluating the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our financial statements but do not expect it to have a material impact.