Item 1. Financial Statements ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Unaudited (in thousands, except per share data) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 3 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Unaudited (in thousands, except per share data) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 4 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Unaudited (in thousands) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 5 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unaudited NOTE 1. ORGANIZATION AND NATURE OF BUSINESS; BASIS OF PRESENTATION; PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION; SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. ("we" or "us" or "our" or "Accelerate" or "the Company") is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions which improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, ("U.S. GAAP"), and applicable rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), regarding interim financial reporting. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. Therefore, these condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the SEC on March 9, 2016. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2015 included herein was derived from the audited financial statements as of that date, but does not include all disclosures such as notes required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods presented, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for the entire year ending December31, 2016 or any future period. All amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars unless otherwise indicated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances. Investments The Company invests excess funds in various investments which are primarily held in the custody of major financial institutions. Investments consist of debt securities in U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, and commercial paper. Management classifies its investments as available-for-sale investments and records these investments in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The Company considers all available-for-sale securities, including those with maturity dates beyond 12 months, as available to support current operational liquidity needs. Unrealized gains or losses for available-for-sale securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of stockholders' equity. The Company classifies its investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations. The Company assesses whether an other-than-temporary impairment loss has occurred due to declines in fair value or other market conditions when an investment's fair value remains less than its cost for more than twelve months. This assessment includes a determination of whether the investment is expected to recover in value and whether the Company has the intent and ability to hold the investment until the anticipated recovery in value occurs. 6 When an investment is identified as having an other-than-temporary impairment loss, we adjust the cost basis of the investment down to fair value resulting in a realized loss. The new cost basis is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair value and temporary future increases or decreases in fair value are included in other comprehensive income . Reclassification Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current year presentation. Inventory The Company currently purchases and produces inventory prior to U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") or other regulatory agency approval. We do not believe probable future economic benefit can be asserted prior to the completion of 510(k) clearance. Accordingly, the Company does not capitalize pre-launch inventory prior to the receipt of 510(k) clearance, unless the regulatory review process has progressed to a point that objective and persuasive evidence of regulatory approval is sufficiently probable, and future economic benefit can be asserted. Inventory is reported as research and development costs, or if used in marketing evaluations reported to sales, general and administrative costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Revenue The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 605, "Revenue Recognition," when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, collection is reasonably assured and delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered. Additional considerations include whether the applicable fee arrangement contains future delivery or performance obligations that should be divided into separate accounting units, whether the arrangement requires the Company to retain risks consistent with a collaborative arrangement, and/or whether any of the fees are contingent on the achievement of future milestones. Deferred revenue represents amounts received but not yet earned under existing agreements. Revenue from operations includes product sales, principally of ACCELERATE PHENO Systems formerly referred to as Accelerate ID/AST systems. When an instrument is sold, revenue is generally recognized upon installation of the unit consistent with contract terms, which do not include a right of return. Warranty A limited warranty of less than a year is covered under selected contracts. Accordingly, a provision for the estimated cost of the limited warranty repair is recorded at the time revenue is recognized. Our estimated warranty provision is based on our estimate of future failure rates and the related estimated cost of repair. The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of the warranty reserve and adjusts the amount as necessary. The expense incurred for these provisions is included in sales, general and administrative on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Foreign Currency Translation and Foreign Currency Transactions The Company follows ASC 830 Foreign Currency Matters, which provides guidance on foreign currency transactions and translation of financial statements. Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are included in the foreign currency translation adjustment, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The Company has assets and liabilities, primarily receivables and payables, which are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. These balance sheet items are subject to re-measurement, the impact of which is recorded in foreign currency exchange gain, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. NOTE 2. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU) 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing. The amendments in this ASU do not change the core principle of the guidance described below in ASU 7 2014-09 but clarify the aspects regarding the identification of performance obligations and the licensing implementation guidance. This ASU will be implemented in conjunction with ASU 2014-09. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) Principal versus Agent Considerations. The amendments in this ASU do not change the core principle of the guidance described below in ASU 2014-09 but clarify the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. This ASU will be implemented in conjunction with ASU 2014-09. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax effects of awards in the income statement when the awards vest or are settled, thus eliminating additional paid in capital pools. The guidance also allows for the employer to repurchase more of an employee's shares for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. The guidance is effective for us on January 1, 2017 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our financial statements and plan to adopt on the effective date. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases. This replaces the existing standards relating to leases for both lessees and lessors. For lessees, the new standard requires most leases to be recorded on the balance sheet with expenses recognized much like the existing standard. For lessors, the new standard modifies the classification criteria and accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases and eliminates leveraged leases. For both lessees and lessors, the standard eliminates real estate-specific provisions, changes some of the presentation and disclosure requirements, and changes sale and leaseback criteria. The ASU is required for us on January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 , Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We are carefully evaluating our existing revenue recognition practices to determine whether any contracts in the scope of the guidance will be affected by the new requirements. The effects may include identifying performance obligations in existing arrangements, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. We will also establish practices to determine when a performance obligation has been satisfied, and recognize revenue in accordance with the new requirements. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date resulting in a new effective date of January 1, 2018 for us. We are permitted to adopt early but not before the original effective date of January 1, 2017. The standard allows for either "full retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied to all of the periods presented, or "modified retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied only to the most current period presented in the financial statements. We are currently evaluating the transition method and the adoption date that will be elected. 8 NOTE 3. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The following tables represent the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis on the financial statements of the Company and the valuation approach applied to each class of financial instruments at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 . Level 1 assets are priced using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets which include cash accounts, money market funds, certificates of deposit and U.S. Treasury securities as these specific assets are liquid. Level 2 available-for-sale securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. The Company uses inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from quoted market prices, independent pricing vendors, or other sources, to determine the ultimate fair value of these assets and liabilities. The Company uses such pricing data as the primary input to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment portfolio and has not made, during the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs. There were no transfers between levels during the three months ended March31, 2016 . NOTE 4. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of 9 cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable, including receivables from major customers. The Company's main financial institution for banking operations held 71% and 100% of the Company's cash and cash equivalents as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The Company extends credit to domestic and international clients in various industries. Exposure to losses on accounts receivable is principally dependent on each client's financial position. At March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $60,000 or 78% and $50,000 or 66% , respectively, of the Company's outstanding receivable balance was with Denver Health Medical Center ("Denver Health"). See Note 7, License Agreements and Grants for more information. For the three months ended March31, 2016 100% of product sales was with Denver Health. NOTE 5. INVESTMENTS The following tables summarize the Company's available-for-sale investments at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 (in thousands): The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company's available-for-sale securities at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 (in thousands): Proceeds from sales of marketable securities (including principal paydowns) for the three months ended 10 March31, 2016 and 2015 , were $500,000 and $107,000 respectively. The Company determines gains and losses of marketable securities based on specific identification of the securities sold. There were no gross realized gains and losses from sales of marketable securities for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 . No other-than-temporary impairments are recorded as no investments had a fair value that remained less than its cost for more than twelve months as of March31, 2016 and there have been no other indicators of impairment. The Company does not intend to sell investments and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell investments before recovering the amortized cost. NOTE 6. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are recorded at cost and consisted of the following at March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 (in thousands). Depreciation expense (which includes amortization of capital lease assets) for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 was $542,000 and $326,000 , respectively. NOTE 7. LICENSE AGREEMENTS AND GRANTS Defense Medical Research and Development Program In May 2012, the Company and Denver Health were notified that the Defense Medical Research and Development Program ("DMRDP") recommended $2.0 million of funding for a proposed 35-month project. The joint proposal became the sole recipient under the Military Infectious Diseases Applied Research Award program for rapid detection of serious antibiotic-resistant infections. The project will apply the ACCELERATE PHENO System to wound infections and other serious infections secondary to trauma. The Company has invoiced a cumulative total of $558,000 under this grant which is recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The amount invoiced for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 was $0 and $68,000 , respectively. The period of performance of this grant was extended through September 2016. National Institute of Health Grant In February 2015, the National Institute of Health awarded Denver Health and the Company a five year, $5.0 million grant to develop a fast and reliable identification and categorical susceptibility test carbepenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae directly from whole blood. In June 2015, the Company executed a subaward agreement with Denver Health for the services provided as part of this grant which covered the period of February 15, 2015 through January 31, 2016 and totaled $689,000 . The amounts invoiced for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 were $9,000 and $0 , respectively. Arizona Commerce Authority In August 2012, the Company entered into a Grant Agreement (the "Grant Agreement") with the Arizona Commerce Authority, an agency of the State of Arizona (the "Authority"), pursuant to which the Authority provided certain state and county sponsored incentives for the Company to relocate its corporate headquarters to, and expand 11 its business within, the State of Arizona (the "Project"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Authority agreed to provide a total grant in the amount of $1.0 million (the "Grant") for the use by the Company in the advancement of the Project. The Grant is payable out of an escrow account in four installments, upon the achievement of the following milestones: Milestone 1 Relocation of Company's operations and corporate headquarters to Arizona and creation of 15 Qualified Jobs (as defined below). Milestone 2 Creation of 30 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestone 1). Milestone 3 Creation of 40 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1 and 2). Milestone 4 Creation of 65 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1, 2 and 3) and capital investment of at least $4.5 million . For purposes of the Grant Agreement, a "Qualified Job" is a job that is permanent, full-time, new to Arizona, and for which the Company pays average (across all Qualified Jobs identified by the Company in its discretion) annual wages of at least $63,000 and offers health insurance benefits and pays at least 65% of the premiums associated with such benefits. The amount of each installment payment will be determined in accordance with a formula specified in the Grant Agreement. The Grant Agreement also contains other customary provisions, including representations, warranties and covenants of both parties. As of March31, 2016 , the Company has collected all of the $1.0 million in milestones. The full amount is recorded in long-term deferred income until the economic development provisions of the grant have been satisfied in full, as there are "claw-back" provisions which would require repayment of certain amounts received if employment levels are not sustained during the term of the arrangement. Once the "claw-back" provisions expire in January 2018, we will recognize the grant as an offset to expense. Further details are included in Note 8, Deferred Revenue and Income . Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program The Company has applied for and met the program requirements to receive a "Certificate of Qualification" from the Arizona Commerce Authority ("Authority") which allows the Company to be eligible for a partial refund of research and development investments ("Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program"). The amounts incurred under this program are recorded as an offset to research and development expenses, and for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 were $1.2 million and $647,000 , respectively. The refund for the 2014 tax year has been received and the amount for the 2015 tax year remains outstanding and is recorded as other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. If the amount received for this program is later determined to be incorrect or invalid, the excess may need to be repaid. NOTE 8. DEFERRED REVENUE AND INCOME 12 Deferred revenue consists of amounts received for products or services not yet delivered or earned. Deferred income consists of amounts received for commitments not yet fulfilled. If we anticipate that the revenue or income will not be earned within the following twelve months, the amount is reported as long-term deferred income. A summary of the balances as of March31, 2016 and December31, 2015 follows (in thousands): We have received $1.0 million in milestone payments from the Arizona Commerce Authority under the Grant Agreement described in Note 7, License Agreements and Grants . As of March31, 2016 , no such payments have been recognized in income, and we do not anticipate recognizing such payments as income until the "claw-back" provisions under the Grant Agreement expire in January 2018. NOTE 9. EARNINGS PER SHARE The financial statements show basic earnings (loss) per share. The Company's net loss for the periods presented caused the inclusion of all outstanding warrants, restricted stocks and options to purchase our Common Stock to be antidilutive. As of March31, 2016 , and December31, 2015 , there were Common Stock options, restricted stock units and warrants exercisable for 7,371,907 and 6,778,580 shares of Common Stock, respectively, which were not included in diluted loss per share as the effect was antidilutive. NOTE 10. EMPLOYEE AND CONSULTANT EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION The following table summarizes option activity under all plans during the three-month period ending March31, 2016 : The table below summarizes the resulting weighted average inputs used to calculate the estimated fair value of options awarded for during the periods shown below: 13 The following table shows summary information for outstanding options, options that are exercisable (vested) and outstanding options that are either vested or expected to vest as of March31, 2016 : The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity during the three-month period ending March31, 2016 : The expense recognized on Company's Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss related to options is summarized below (in thousands): As of March31, 2016 , unrecognized equity-based compensation cost related to unvested stock options and unvested restricted stock units was $13.2 million and $579,000 respectively. This is expected to be recognized over the years 2016 through 2021 . NOTE 11. COMMITMENTS 14 Leases The Company has entered into lease agreements, lease amendments, and lease extensions ("Lease Agreements") for office, laboratory and manufacturing space located in Tucson, Arizona and Europe, the last of which expires in 2018. Total rent expense, including common area charges was $260,000 and $115,000 for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under operating lease agreements are as follows (in thousands): Clinical Trial Agreements The Company has entered into master agreements with clinical trial sites in which we typically pay a set amount for start-up costs and then pay for work performed. These agreements typically indemnify the clinical trial sites from any and all losses arising from third party claims as a result of the Company's negligence, willful misconduct or misrepresentation. The Company incurred clinical trial expense of $664,000 and $180,000 for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The expense incurred as part of the clinical trial is included in research and development on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Legal Matters On March 19, 2015, a putative securities class action lawsuit was filed against Lawrence Mehren, and Steve Reichling, Rapp v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., U.S. District Court, District of Arizona, 2:2015-cv-00504. The complaint alleges that we violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and SEC Rule 10b-5, by making false or misleading statements about our ID/AST System, formerly called the BACcel System. Plaintiff purports to bring the action on behalf of a class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between March 7, 2014 and February 17, 2015. On June 9, 2015, Julia Chang was appointed Lead Plaintiff of the purported class. On June 23, 2015, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b- 5, by making false or misleading statements or omissions about our ID/AST System and by allegedly employing schemes to defraud. Plaintiff seeks certification of the action as a class action, compensatory damages for the class in an unspecified amount, legal fees and costs, and such other relief as the court may order. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on July 21, 2015, which motion was pending before the Court as of December 31, 2015. Subsequently, the Court granted the motion and dismissed the case with prejudice on January 28, 2016. On February 26, 2016, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Plaintiff challenges the dismissal of the amended complaint. Plaintiff's opening brief, if she does not seek additional time, is due June 6, 2016. NOTE 12. SEGMENTS The Company operates as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance. The Company's business operates in one operating segment because the Company's chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company's financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since the Company operates in one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. 15 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introductory Note Except as otherwise indicated by the context, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this "Form 10-Q") to the "Company," "Accelerate," "we," "us" or "our" are references to the combined business of Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. The ACCELERATE PHENO System, is also referred to as the "ID/AST System" or "Accelerate ID/AST System". Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the Company, intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. These forward-looking statements, which can be identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," or "continue," or variations thereon or comparable terminology, include the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products and future economic performance of the Company. In addition, all statements other than statements of historical facts that address activities, events, or developments the Company expects, believes, or anticipates will or may occur in the future, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that the Company will retain key management personnel, the Company will be successful in the development of the ACCELERATE PHENO System, the Company will obtain sufficient capital to complete the development and required clinical trials of the ACCELERATE PHENO System, the Company will be able to protect its intellectual property, the Company's ability to respond to technological change, that the Company will accurately anticipate market demand for the Company's products and that there will be no material adverse change in the Company's operations or business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking statements will be realized. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and contractual obligations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere herein. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below and elsewhere in this report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's future operating results may be affected by various trends and factors which are beyond the Company's control. These include, among other factors, general public perception of issues and solutions, and other uncertain business conditions that may affect the Company's business. The Company cautions the reader that a number of important factors discussed herein, and in other reports, filed with the SEC including but not limited to the risks in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December31, 2015 could affect the Company's actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Our MD&A is composed of the following sections: Overview, Changes in Results of Operations, Capital Resources and Liquidity and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest thousand unless otherwise indicated. 16 Overview Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions that improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Microbiology laboratories are in need of new tools to address what the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention calls one of the most serious healthcare threats of our time, antibiotic resistance. A significant contributing factor to the rise of resistance is the overuse and misuse of antibiotics, which is exacerbated by a lack of timely diagnostic results. The delay of these results is often due to the reliance by microbiology laboratories on traditional culture-based tests that often take two to three days to complete. Our technology platform is built to address these challenges by delivering significantly faster and accurate testing of infectious pathogens in various patient sample types. Since 2004, we have focused our efforts on the development of an innovative rapid diagnostic platform, the ACCELERATE PHENO System, intended for the rapid diagnosis of infectious pathogens. Our goal is to reduce the failure rate of initial antibiotic drug therapy by shortening lab turnaround time to hours rather than the two to three days now required to deliver identification and susceptibility results. The ID/AST System utilizes genotypic technology to identify, or ID, infectious pathogens and phenotypic technology to conduct antibiotic susceptibility testing, or AST, which determines whether live bacterial or fungal cells are resistant or susceptible to a particular antibiotic. The ID/AST blood culture assay kit, which we refer to as the ACCELERATE PHENOTEST BC Kit, is being investigated for its ability to provide ID and AST results for patients suspected of bacteremia or fungemia, both life-threatening conditions with high morbidity and mortality risk. The Blood Culture Assay Kit is a highly multiplexed panel targeting more than 150 individual assays which have the potential to support clinicians in prescribing optimal antibiotic therapy for patients in this critical condition. The final number of assays included in the Blood Culture Assay Kit will depend on the results of our clinical trial to support marketing authorization from the FDA and FDA review of each individual assay for marketing clearance. This panel is designed to cover over 80% of the routine and significant pathogens causing blood stream infections and over 90% of the antibiotics useful in treating those pathogens. On June 30, 2015, we declared our conformity to the European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79 EC and applied a CE Mark to the Accelerate ID/AST System and the Blood Culture Assay Kit for in vitro diagnostic use. We anticipate commercializing the Accelerate ID/AST System in the United States, subject to the successful completion of the U.S. registration trial and submission to and clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") of our de novo 510(k) for the ID/AST System, which could occur as early as the third quarter of 2016. Changes in Results of Operations: Three months ended March31, 2016 compared to three months ended March31, 2015 During the three months ended March31, 2016 , total revenues were $163,000 as compared to $14,000 during the three months ended March31, 2015 , an increase of $149,000 or 1,064% . The increase was due to sales of ACCELERATE PHENO Systems (Research Use Only) in 2016. The Company does not currently capitalize pre-launch inventory and the cost of product sales is reported as research and development costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Research and development expenses for the three months ended March31, 2016 were $7,353,000 as compared to $5,730,000 during the three months ended March31, 2015 , an increase of $1,623,000 or 28% . The increase was primarily the result of increasing employee headcount, clinical trial fees, and increased purchases of laboratory and instrument engineering supplies to support research and development as well as pre-launch efforts. Research and development expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation which decreased $486,000 . We do not capitalize our inventory or internally developed instruments prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP and, therefore, research and development expenses include raw materials and instruments manufactured for sales. Also included in research and development expenses are instruments manufactured for internal research and development, and trial or study use which totaled $1,455,000 and $1,230,000 for three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. During the three months ended March31, 2016 , sales, general and administrative expenses were $7,437,000 as compared to $2,867,000 during the three months ended March31, 2015 , an increase of $4,570,000 or 159% . The increase was primarily driven by salaries and related expenses as we ramp up our operations. Sales, general and administrative expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation which increased $515,000 . We do not capitalize 17 our internally developed instruments prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP and, therefore, sales, general and administrative expenses include demonstration instruments as expense totaling $588,000 and $69,000 for three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Depreciation for the three months ended March31, 2016 was $542,000 as compared to $326,000 during the three months ended March31, 2015 , an increase of $216,000 or 66% . The increased depreciation was the result of purchases of equipment to support the Company's Tucson facility laboratory, manufacturing and administrative space. As a result of the above factors, loss from operations for the three months ended March31, 2016 was $15,172,000 as compared to the loss of $8,911,000 during the three months ended March31, 2015 , an increase in loss from operations of $6,261,000 or 70% which includes an increase of $29,000 in non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. This loss and further losses are anticipated and was the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and commercialize the Company's products. Other non-operating income during the three months ended March31, 2016 was $98,000 as compared to $14,000 during the three months ended March31, 2015 , an increase of $84,000 or 600% . This change was due to an increase in foreign currency exchange gain which includes the remeasurement of monetary assets to the U.S. dollar, and an increase in investment income. As a result of these factors, net loss for the three months ended March31, 2016 was $15,074,000 as compared to a net loss of $8,897,000 during the three months ended March31, 2015 , an increase in net loss of $6,177,000 or 69% . Unrealized gain on available-for-sale investments for the three months ended March31, 2016 was $52,000 as compared to $5,000 during the three months ended March31, 2015 . Foreign currency translation adjustment loss for the three months ended March31, 2016 was $49,000 as compared to $0 during the three months ended March31, 2015 . The resulting comprehensive losses were $15,071,000 and $8,892,000 for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity has been from sales of shares of common stock. As of March31, 2016 , the Company had $116.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, a decrease of $15.7 million from $132.4 million at December31, 2015 . The primary reason for the change in these assets was the funding of operational losses. The Company is subject to a Lease Agreement with Pima County of Arizona. The future minimum lease payments under the Lease Agreement are included in Item 1, Note 11, Commitments . As of March31, 2016 , management believes that current cash balances will be more than sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the next twelve months. The following summarizes selected items in the Company's consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March31, 2016 and March31, 2015 (in thousands): 18 The net cash used in investing activities was $34.5 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 . Primarily comprised of available-for-sale investment purchases. The net cash provided by investing activities was $0.8 million for the three months ended March31, 2015 . Primarily comprised of maturing available-for-sale investments. The net cash used in financing activities was $0.8 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 . Primarily comprised of stock issuance costs paid in the period. The net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March31, 2015 was not significant. Our primary use of capital has been for the continued development and investment in commercialization readiness of the ACCELERATE PHENO System. We believe our capital requirements will continue to be met with our existing cash balance and those provided under grants, exercises of warrants and stock options and/or, additional issuance of equity or debt securities. However, if capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional capital sooner than expected. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Additional issuances of equity or convertible debt securities will result in dilution to our current common stockholders. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March31, 2016 .Item 1. Financial Statements ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (in thousands, except share data) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 3 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Unaudited (in thousands, except per share data) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 4 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Unaudited (in thousands) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 5 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unaudited NOTE 1. ORGANIZATION AND NATURE OF BUSINESS; BASIS OF PRESENTATION; PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION; SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. ("we" or "us" or "our" or "Accelerate" or "the Company") is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions which improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, ("U.S. GAAP"), and applicable rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), regarding interim financial reporting. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. Therefore, these condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the SEC on March 9, 2016. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2015 included herein was derived from the audited financial statements as of that date, but does not include all disclosures such as notes required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods presented, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for the entire year ending December31, 2016 or any future period. All amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars unless otherwise indicated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances. During the three months ended June30, 2016 new entities were formed based in Europe. Cash and Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less at time of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include overnight repurchase agreement accounts and other investments. As part of our cash management process, excess operating cash is invested in overnight repurchase agreements with our bank. Repurchase agreements and other investments classified as cash and cash equivalents are not deposits and are not insured by the U.S. Government, the FDIC or any other government agency and involve investment risk including possible loss of principal. We believe however, that the market risk arising from holding these financial instruments is minimal. Investments The Company invests excess funds in various investments which are primarily held in the custody of major financial institutions. Investments consist of debt securities in U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt 6 securities, certificates of deposit, and commercial paper. Management classifies its investments as available-for-sale investments and records these investments in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The Company considers all available-for-sale securities, including those with maturity dates beyond 12 months, as available to support current operational liquidity needs. Unrealized gains or losses for available-for-sale securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of stockholders' equity. The Company classifies its investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations. The Company assesses whether an other-than-temporary impairment loss has occurred due to declines in fair value or other market conditions when an investment's fair value remains less than its cost for more than twelve months. This assessment includes a determination of whether the investment is expected to recover in value and whether the Company has the intent and ability to hold the investment until the anticipated recovery in value occurs. When an investment is identified as having an other-than-temporary impairment loss, we adjust the cost basis of the investment down to fair value resulting in a realized loss. The new cost basis is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair value and temporary future increases or decreases in fair value are included in other comprehensive income . Reclassification Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current year presentation. Inventory The Company currently purchases and produces inventory prior to U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") or other regulatory agency approval. We do not believe probable future economic benefit can be asserted prior to the de novo request being granted by the U.S.FDA. Accordingly, the Company does not capitalize pre-launch inventory prior to receipt of marketingauthorization, unless the regulatory review process has progressed to a point that objective and persuasive evidence of regulatory approval is sufficiently probable, and future economic benefit can be asserted. Costs associated with the Company's purchase of inventory are either reported as research and development costs, or if the inventory is used in marketing evaluations, as sales, general and administrative costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Revenue The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 605, "Revenue Recognition," when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, collection is reasonably assured and delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered. Additional considerations include whether the applicable fee arrangement contains future delivery or performance obligations that should be divided into separate accounting units, whether the arrangement requires the Company to retain risks consistent with a collaborative arrangement, and/or whether any of the fees are contingent on the achievement of future milestones. Deferred revenue represents amounts received but not yet earned under existing agreements. Revenue from operations includes product sales, principally of ACCELERATE PHENO systems (formerly referred to as Accelerate ID/AST systems). When an instrument is sold, revenue is generally recognized upon installation of the unit consistent with contract terms, which do not include a right of return. Warranty A limited warranty of less than a year is covered under selected contracts. Accordingly, a provision for the estimated cost of the limited warranty repair is recorded at the time revenue is recognized. Our estimated warranty provision is based on our estimate of future repair events and the related estimated cost of repairs. The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of the warranty reserve and adjusts the amount as necessary. The expense incurred for these provisions is included in sales, general and administrative on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Foreign Currency Translation and Foreign Currency Transactions The Company follows ASC 830 "Foreign Currency Matters," which provides guidance on foreign currency transactions and translation of financial statements. Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency 7 financial statements into U.S. dollars are included in the foreign currency translation adjustment, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The Company has assets and liabilities, primarily receivables and payables, which are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. These balance sheet items are subject to re-measurement, the impact of which is recorded in foreign currency exchange gain or loss, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. NOTE 2. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the guidance on measuring credit losses on financial assets (including trade accounts receivable and available for sale debt securities) held at amortized cost. Currently, an "incurred loss" methodology is used for recognizing credit losses which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. The amendment requires assets valued at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected using an allowance for credit losses. Reversal of credit losses on available for sale debt securities will be recorded in the current period net income. The amendment will be effective for us on January 1, 2020 with early adoption permitted. We do not anticipate this guidance will have a significant impact on our financial statements and plan to adopt on the effective date. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax effects of awards in the income statement when the awards vest or are settled, thus eliminating additional paid in capital pools. The guidance also allows for the employer to repurchase more of an employee's shares for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. The guidance is effective for us on January 1, 2017 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our financial statements and plan to adopt on the effective date. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This replaces the existing standards relating to leases for both lessees and lessors. For lessees, the new standard requires most leases to be recorded on the balance sheet with expenses recognized much like the existing standard. For lessors, the new standard modifies the classification criteria and accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases and eliminates leveraged leases. For both lessees and lessors, the standard eliminates real estate-specific provisions, changes some of the presentation and disclosure requirements, and changes sale and leaseback criteria. The ASU is required for us on January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We are carefully evaluating our existing revenue recognition practices to determine whether any contracts in the scope of the guidance will be affected by the new requirements. The effects may include identifying performance obligations in existing arrangements, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. We will also establish practices to determine when a performance obligation has been satisfied, and recognize revenue in accordance with the new requirements. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date resulting in a new effective date of January 1, 2018 for us. We are permitted to adopt early but not before the original effective date of January 1, 2017. FASB has issued several other ASU's which provide further guidance on Topic 606 and have the same effective date. The standard allows for either "full retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied to all of the periods presented, or "modified retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied only to the most current period presented in the financial statements. We are currently evaluating the transition method and the adoption date that will be elected. We will implement ASU 2014-09 and all relevant subsequently issued ASU's on Topic 606 concurrently. 8 NOTE 3. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The following tables represent the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis on the financial statements of the Company and the valuation approach applied to each class of financial instruments at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . Level 1 assets are priced using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets which include cash accounts, money market funds, certificates of deposit and U.S. Treasury securities as these specific assets are liquid. Level 2 available-for-sale securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. The Company uses inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from quoted market prices, independent pricing vendors, or other sources, to determine the ultimate fair value of these assets and liabilities. The Company uses such pricing data as the primary input to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment portfolio and has not made, during the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs. There were no transfers between levels during the six month period ended June30, 2016 . NOTE 4. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of 9 cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable, including receivables from major customers. The Company's main financial institution for banking operations held 70% and 100% of the Company's cash and cash equivalents as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The Company extends credit to domestic and international clients in various industries. Exposure to losses on accounts receivable is principally dependent on each client's financial position. At June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $129,000 or 76% and $50,000 or 66% , respectively, of the Company's outstanding receivable balance was with Denver Health Medical Center ("Denver Health"). See Note 7, License Agreements and Grants for more information. Revenue from product sales purchased from Denver Health represented 100% and 0% for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 respectively. There were no product sales for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 . NOTE 5. INVESTMENTS The following tables summarize the Company's available-for-sale investments at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company's available-for-sale securities at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : 10 Proceeds from sales of marketable securities (including principal paydowns), for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were $500,000 and $34,000 , respectively, and for the for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were $1,000,000 and $141,000 , respectively. The Company determines gains and losses of marketable securities based on specific identification of the securities sold. There were no gross realized gains or losses from sales of marketable securities for the three months ended and six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 . No other-than-temporary impairments are recorded as no investments had a fair value that remained less than its cost for more than twelve months as of June30, 2016 and there have been no other indicators of impairment. The Company does not intend to sell investments and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell investments before recovering the amortized cost. Additional information regarding the fair value of our financial instruments is included in Note 3, Fair Value of Financial Instruments . NOTE 6. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are recorded at cost and consisted of the following at June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . Depreciation expense (which includes amortization of capital lease assets) for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 was $605,000 and $403,000 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 was $1,147,000 and $729,000 , respectively. NOTE 7. LICENSE AGREEMENTS AND GRANTS Defense Medical Research and Development Program In May 2012, the Company and Denver Health were notified that the Defense Medical Research and Development Program ("DMRDP") recommended $2.0 million of funding for a proposed 35 -month project. The joint proposal became the sole recipient under the Military Infectious Diseases Applied Research Award program for rapid detection of serious antibiotic-resistant infections. The project will apply the ACCELERATE PHENO system to wound infections and other serious infections secondary to trauma. The Company has invoiced a cumulative total of $602,000 11 under this grant which is recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The amounts invoiced for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were $44,000 and $68,000 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 was $44,000 were $136,000 , respectively. The period of performance of this grant was extended through September 2016. National Institute of Health Grant In February 2015, the National Institute of Health awarded Denver Health and the Company a five year, $5.0 million grant to develop a fast and reliable identification and categorical susceptibility test carbepenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae directly from whole blood. In June 2015, the Company executed a subaward agreement with Denver Health for the services provided as part of this grant which covered the period of February 15, 2015 through January 31, 2016 and totaled $689,000 . The amounts invoiced for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were $50,000 and $0 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were $59,000 and $0 , respectively. Amounts invoiced under this grant are recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. Arizona Commerce Authority In August 2012, the Company entered into a Grant Agreement (the "Grant Agreement") with the Arizona Commerce Authority, an agency of the State of Arizona (the "Authority"), pursuant to which the Authority provided certain state and county sponsored incentives for the Company to relocate its corporate headquarters to, and expand its business within, the State of Arizona (the "Project"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Authority agreed to provide a total grant in the amount of $1.0 million (the "Grant") for the use by the Company in the advancement of the Project. The Grant is payable out of an escrow account in four installments, upon the achievement of the following milestones: Milestone 1 Relocation of Company's operations and corporate headquarters to Arizona and creation of 15 Qualified Jobs (as defined below). Milestone 2 Creation of 30 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestone 1). Milestone 3 Creation of 40 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1 and 2). Milestone 4 Creation of 65 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1, 2 and 3) and capital investment of at least $4.5 million . For purposes of the Grant Agreement, a "Qualified Job" is a job that is permanent, full-time, new to Arizona, and for which the Company pays average (across all Qualified Jobs identified by the Company in its discretion) annual wages of at least $63,000 and offers health insurance benefits and pays at least 65% of the premiums associated with such benefits. The amount of each installment payment will be determined in accordance with a formula specified in the Grant Agreement. The Grant Agreement also contains other customary provisions, including representations, warranties and covenants of both parties. As of June30, 2016 , the Company has collected all of the $1.0 million in milestones. The full amount is recorded in long-term deferred income until the economic development provisions of the grant have been satisfied in full, as there are "claw-back" provisions which would require repayment of certain amounts received if employment levels are not sustained during the term of the arrangement. Once the "claw-back" provisions expire in January 2018, we will recognize the grant as an offset to expense. Further details are included in Note 8, Deferred Revenue and Income . Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program The Company has applied for and met the program requirements to receive a "Certificate of Qualification" from the Arizona Commerce Authority ("Authority"), which allows the Company to be eligible for a partial refund of research and development investments ("Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program"). The amounts incurred under this program are recorded as an offset to research and development expenses, and for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 were $1.2 million and $647,000 , respectively, and no amounts were incurred for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 . The refund for the 2014 tax year has been received and the amount for the 2015 tax year remains outstanding and is recorded as other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. If the amount received for this program is later determined to be incorrect or invalid, the excess may need to be repaid. NOTE 8. DEFERRED REVENUE AND INCOME 12 Deferred revenue consists of amounts received for products or services not yet delivered or earned. Deferred income consists of amounts received for commitments not yet fulfilled. If we anticipate that the revenue or income will not be earned within the following twelve months, the amount is reported as long-term deferred income. A summary of the balances as of June30, 2016 and December31, 2015 follows: We have received $1.0 million in milestone payments from the Arizona Commerce Authority under the Grant Agreement described in Note 7, License Agreements and Grants . As of June30, 2016 , no such payments have been recognized in income, and we do not anticipate recognizing such payments as income until the "claw-back" provisions under the Grant Agreement expire in January 2018. NOTE 9. EARNINGS PER SHARE The financial statements show basic and diluted loss per share. The Company's net loss for the periods presented caused the inclusion of all outstanding warrants, restricted stocks and options to purchase our common stock to be antidilutive. As of June30, 2016 , and December31, 2015 , there were common stock options, restricted stock units and warrants exercisable for 7,529,452 and 6,778,580 shares of common stock, respectively, which were not included in diluted loss per share as the effect was antidilutive. NOTE 10. EMPLOYEE AND CONSULTANT EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION The following table summarizes option activity under all plans during the six -month period ending June30, 2016 : The table below summarizes the resulting weighted average inputs used to calculate the estimated fair value of options awarded for during the periods shown below: 13 The following table shows summary information for outstanding options, options that are exercisable (vested) and outstanding options that are either vested or expected to vest as of June30, 2016 : The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity during the six -month period ending June30, 2016 : The expense recognized on Company's Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss related to options is summarized below: As of June30, 2016 , unrecognized equity-based compensation cost related to unvested stock options and unvested restricted stock units was $12.4 million and $482,000 respectively. This is expected to be recognized over the years 2016 through 2021 . NOTE 11. COMMITMENTS 14 Leases The Company has entered into lease agreements, lease amendments, and lease extensions ("Lease Agreements") for office, laboratory and manufacturing space located in Tucson, Arizona and Europe, the last of which expires in 2018. Total rent expense, including common area charges was $280,000 and $167,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 was $540,000 and $282,000 , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under operating lease agreements are as follows: Clinical Trial Agreements The Company has entered into master agreements with clinical trial sites in which we typically pay a set amount for start-up costs and then pay for work performed. These agreements typically indemnify the clinical trial sites from any and all losses arising from third party claims as a result of the Company's negligence, willful misconduct or misrepresentation. The Company incurred clinical trial expense of $760,000 and $178,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $1,424,000 and $358,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The expense incurred as part of the clinical trial is included in research and development on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Legal Matters On March 19, 2015, a putative securities class action lawsuit was filed against Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., Lawrence Mehren, and Steve Reichling, Rapp v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., U.S. District Court, District of Arizona, 2:2015-cv-00504. The complaint alleges that we violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and SEC Rule 10b-5, by making false or misleading statements about our ID/AST System, formerly called the BACcel System. Plaintiff purports to bring the action on behalf of a class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between March 7, 2014 and February 17, 2015. On June 9, 2015, Julia Chang was appointed Lead Plaintiff of the purported class. On June 23, 2015, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b- 5, by making false or misleading statements or omissions about our ID/AST System and by allegedly employing schemes to defraud. Plaintiff sought certification of the action as a class action, compensatory damages for the class in an unspecified amount, legal fees and costs, and such other relief as the court may order. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on July 21, 2015. The Court granted the motion and dismissed the case with prejudice on January 28, 2016. On February 26, 2016, Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which challenges the dismissal of the amended complaint. Chang v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., No. 2:15-CV-00504-SPL (9th Cir. filed Feb. 26, 2016). The appeal is pending; Plaintiff filed her Brief on Appeal on June 6, 2016. NOTE 12. SEGMENTS The Company operates as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance. The Company's business operates in one operating segment because the Company's chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company's financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since the Company operates in one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. NOTE 13. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 15 In June 2016 , the Companyrecorded a net amount of $866,000 related to the recovery of short-swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.The Company recognized these related party proceeds as an increase to contributed capital on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. NOTE 14. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS As Defendants in the securities litigation now pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Chang v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., No. 2:15-CV-00504-SPL (9th Cir. filed Feb. 26, 2016)), we filed our answering brief with the Court on August 3, 2016. Should Plaintiff choose to file an optional reply brief, thatbriefwill be due on August 22, 2016, unless Plaintiff requests - and the Court grants - an extension of time. Additional information regarding this litigation is included in Note 11, Commitments . Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introductory Note Except as otherwise indicated by the context, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this "Form 10-Q") to the "Company," "Accelerate," "we," "us" or "our" are references to the combined business of Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. The ACCELERATE PHENO system, is also referred to as the "ID/AST System" or "Accelerate ID/AST System". Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the Company, intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. These forward-looking statements, which can be identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," or "continue," or variations thereon or comparable terminology, include the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products and future economic performance of the Company. In addition, all statements other than statements of historical facts that address activities, events, or developments the Company expects, believes, or anticipates will or may occur in the future, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that the Company will retain key management personnel, the Company will be successful in the development of the ACCELERATE PHENO system, the Company will obtain sufficient capital to complete the development and required clinical trials of the ACCELERATE PHENO system, the Company will be able to protect its intellectual property, the Company's ability to respond to technological change, that the Company will accurately anticipate market demand for the Company's products and that there will be no material adverse change in the Company's operations or business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking statements will be realized. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and 16 contractual obligations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere herein. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below and elsewhere in this report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's future operating results may be affected by various trends and factors which are beyond the Company's control. These include, among other factors, general public perception of issues and solutions, and other uncertain business conditions that may affect the Company's business. The Company cautions the reader that a number of important factors discussed herein, and in other reports, filed with the SEC including but not limited to the risks in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December31, 2015 could affect the Company's actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Our MD&A is composed of the following sections: Overview, Changes in Results of Operations, Capital Resources and Liquidity and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest thousand unless otherwise indicated. Overview Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions that improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Microbiology laboratories are in need of new tools to address what the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention calls one of the most serious healthcare threats of our time, antibiotic resistance. A significant contributing factor to the rise of resistance is the overuse and misuse of antibiotics, which is exacerbated by a lack of timely diagnostic results. The delay of these results is often due to the reliance by microbiology laboratories on traditional culture-based tests that often take two to three days to complete. Our technology platform is built to address these challenges by delivering significantly faster and accurate testing of infectious pathogens in various patient sample types. Since 2004, we have focused our efforts on the development of an innovative rapid diagnostic platform, the ACCELERATE PHENO system, intended for the rapid diagnosis of infectious pathogens. Our goal is to reduce the failure rate of initial antibiotic drug therapy by shortening lab turnaround time to hours rather than the two to three days now required to deliver identification and susceptibility results. The ID/AST System utilizes genotypic technology to identify, or ID, infectious pathogens and phenotypic technology to conduct antibiotic susceptibility testing, or AST, which determines whether live bacterial or fungal cells are resistant or susceptible to a particular antibiotic. The ID/AST blood culture assay kit, which we refer to as the ACCELERATE PHENOTEST BC kit, is being investigated for its ability to provide ID and AST results for patients suspected of bacteremia or fungemia, both life-threatening conditions with high morbidity and mortality risk. The Blood Culture Assay Kit is a highly multiplexed panel targeting more than 150 individual assays which have the potential to support clinicians in prescribing optimal antibiotic therapy for patients in this critical condition. The final number of assays included in the Blood Culture Assay Kit will depend on the results of our clinical trials to support marketing authorization from the FDA and FDA review of each individual assay for marketing clearance. This panel is designed to cover over 80% of the routine and significant pathogens causing blood stream infections and over 90% of the antibiotics useful in treating those pathogens. On June 30, 2015, we declared our conformity to the European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79 EC and applied a CE Mark to the Accelerate ID/AST System and the Blood Culture Assay Kit for in vitro diagnostic use. On July 11, 2016 Accelerate submitted to the FDA a De Novo request for pre market authorization of its Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit based on a clinical study representing over 1,800 samples across 13 sites. We anticipate commercializing the Accelerate ID/AST System in the United States, subject to clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), which could occur as early as the third quarter of 2016. Changes in Results of Operations: three months ended June30, 2016 compared to three months ended June30, 2015 During the three months ended June30, 2016 , total revenues were $20,000 as compared to $19,000 during the three months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $1,000 or 5% . The increase was due to revenue associated with license agreements. 17 Research and development expenses for the three months ended June30, 2016 were $8,062,000 as compared to $7,126,000 during the three months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $936,000 or 13% . The increase was primarily the result of increasing employee headcount, clinical trial fees, and increased purchases of laboratory and instrument engineering supplies to support research and development as well as pre-launch efforts. Research and development expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 of $462,000 and $747,000 , respectively, which decreased $285,000 . We do not capitalize our inventory prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP, accordingly instruments and consumables charged to research and development were $1,647,000 and $981,000 for three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. During the three months ended June30, 2016 , sales, general and administrative expenses were $9,239,000 as compared to $4,755,000 during the three months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $4,484,000 or 94% . The increase was primarily driven by salaries and related expenses as we ramp up our sales and marketing operations globally. Sales, general and administrative expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 of $1,773,000 and $1,781,000 , respectively, which decreased $8,000 . We do not capitalize our internally developed instruments prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP at which time we believe the costs will be recoverable and, therefore, sales, general and administrative expenses include demonstration instruments as expense totaling $748,000 and $260,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Depreciation for the three months ended June30, 2016 was $605,000 as compared to $403,000 during the three months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $202,000 or 50% . The increased depreciation was the result of purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements to support the Company's Tucson facility laboratory, manufacturing and administrative space. As a result of the above factors, loss from operations for the three months ended June30, 2016 was $17,889,000 as compared to the loss of $12,268,000 during the three months ended June30, 2015 , an increase in loss from operations of $5,621,000 or 46% . Loss from operations include non-cash equity-based compensation for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 of $2,235,000 and $2,528,000 , respectively, which decreased $293,000 . This loss and further losses are anticipated and was the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and commercialize the Company's products. Other non-operating income during the three months ended June30, 2016 was $23,000 as compared to $16,000 during the three months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $7,000 or 44% . This change was due to an increase in investment income. As a result of these factors, net loss for the three months ended June30, 2016 was $17,866,000 as compared to a net loss of $12,252,000 during the three months ended June30, 2015 , an increase in net loss of $5,614,000 or 46% . Unrealized gain on available-for-sale investments for the three months ended June30, 2016 was $29,000 as compared to an unrealized loss of $8,000 during the three months ended June30, 2015 . Foreign currency translation adjustment gain for the three months ended June30, 2016 was $49,000 as compared to $0 during the three months ended June30, 2015 . The resulting comprehensive losses were $17,788,000 and $12,260,000 for the three months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Changes in Results of Operations: six months ended June30, 2016 compared to six months ended June30, 2015 During the six months ended June30, 2016 , total revenues were $183,000 as compared to $33,000 during the six months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of 150,000 or 455% . The increase was due to sales of ACCELERATE PHENO systems (Research Use Only) in 2016. The Company does not currently capitalize pre-launch inventory and the cost of product sales is reported as research and development costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Research and development expenses for the six months ended June30, 2016 were $15,416,000 as compared to $12,856,000 during the six months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $2,560,000 or 20% . The increase was 18 primarily the result of increasing employee headcount, clinical trial fees, and increased purchases of laboratory and instrument engineering supplies to support research and development as well as pre-launch efforts. Research and development expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 of $664,000 and $1,435,000 , respectively, which decreased $771,000 . We do not capitalize our inventory prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP, accordingly instruments and consumables charged to research and development were $3,102,000 and $2,211,000 for six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. During the six months ended June30, 2016 , sales, general and administrative expenses were $16,676,000 as compared to $7,622,000 during the six months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $9,054,000 or 119% . The increase was primarily driven by salaries and related expenses as we ramp up our sales and marketing operations globally. Sales, general and administrative expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 of $3,257,000 and $2,750,000 , respectively, which increased $507,000 . We do not capitalize our internally developed instruments prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP at which time we believe the costs will be recoverable and, therefore, sales, general and administrative expenses include demonstration instruments as expense totaling $1,336,000 and $329,000 for six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Depreciation for the six months ended June30, 2016 was $1,147,000 as compared to $729,000 during the six months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $418,000 or 57% . The increased depreciation was the result of purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements to support the Company's Tucson facility laboratory, manufacturing and administrative space. As a result of the above factors, loss from operations for the six months ended June30, 2016 was $33,061,000 as compared to the loss of $21,179,000 during the six months ended June30, 2015 , an increase in loss from operations of $11,882,000 or 56% . Loss from operations include non-cash equity-based compensation for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 of $3,921,000 and $4,185,000 , respectively, which decreased $264,000 . This loss and further losses are anticipated and was the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and commercialize the Company's products. Other non-operating income during the six months ended June30, 2016 was $121,000 as compared to $30,000 during the six months ended June30, 2015 , an increase of $91,000 or 303% . This change was due to an increase in investment income. As a result of these factors, net loss for the six months ended June30, 2016 was $32,940,000 as compared to a net loss of $21,149,000 during the six months ended June30, 2015 , an increase in net loss of $11,791,000 or 56% . Unrealized gain on available-for-sale investments for the six months ended June30, 2016 was $81,000 as compared to an unrealized loss of $4,000 during the six months ended June30, 2015 . The resulting comprehensive losses were $32,859,000 and $21,153,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity has been from sales of shares of common stock. As of June30, 2016 , the Company had $102.4 million in cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, a decrease of $30.0 million from $132.4 million at December31, 2015 . The primary reason for the change in these assets was the funding of operational losses. The Company is subject to a Lease Agreement with Pima County of Arizona. The future minimum lease payments under the Lease Agreement are included in Item 1, Note 11, Commitments . As of June30, 2016 , management believes that current cash balances will be more than sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the next twelve months. 19 The following summarizes selected items in the Company's consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended June30, 2016 and June30, 2015 : The net cash used in operating activities was $28.1 million and $16.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively and was primarily comprised of the net loss from the statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The net cash used in investing activities was $55.2 million and $2.2 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively and was primarily comprised of available-for-sale investment purchases. The net cash provided by financing activities was $259,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 . This is primarily comprised of proceeds received from the recovery of related party short swing profits offset by stock issuance costs paid in the period for the prior year issuance of common stock. The net cash provided by financing activities was $254,000 for the six months ended June30, 2015 and was primarily comprised of exercised options. Our primary use of capital has been for the continued development and investment in commercialization readiness of the ACCELERATE PHENO system. We believe our capital requirements will continue to be met with our existing cash balance and those provided under grants, exercises of warrants and stock options and/or, additional issuance of equity or debt securities. However, if capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional capital sooner than expected. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Additional issuances of equity or convertible debt securities will result in dilution to our current common stockholders. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of June30, 2016 .Item 1. Financial Statements 3 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (in thousands, except share data) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 4 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Unaudited (in thousands, except per share data) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 5 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Unaudited (in thousands) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 6 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unaudited NOTE 1. ORGANIZATION AND NATURE OF BUSINESS; BASIS OF PRESENTATION; PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION; SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. ("we" or "us" or "our" or "Accelerate" or "the Company") is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions which improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, ("U.S. GAAP"), and applicable rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), regarding interim financial reporting. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. Therefore, these condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the SEC on March 9, 2016. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2015 included herein was derived from the audited financial statements as of that date, but does not include all disclosures such as notes required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods presented, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for the entire year ending December31, 2016 or any future period. All amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars unless otherwise indicated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances. During the nine months ended September30, 2016 new entities were formed based in Europe. Cash and Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less at time of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include overnight repurchase agreement accounts and other investments. As part of our cash management process, excess operating cash is invested in overnight repurchase agreements with our bank. Repurchase agreements and other investments classified as cash and cash equivalents are not deposits and are not insured by the U.S. Government, the FDIC or any other government agency and involve investment risk including possible loss of principal. We believe however, that the market risk arising from holding these financial instruments is minimal. Investments The Company invests excess funds in various investments which are primarily held in the custody of major financial institutions. Investments consist of debt securities in U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt 7 securities, certificates of deposit, and commercial paper. Management classifies its investments as available-for-sale investments and records these investments in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The Company considers all available-for-sale securities, including those with maturity dates beyond 12 months, as available to support current operational liquidity needs. Unrealized gains or losses for available-for-sale securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of stockholders' equity. The Company classifies its investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations. The Company assesses whether an other-than-temporary impairment loss has occurred due to declines in fair value or other market conditions when an investment's fair value remains less than its cost for more than twelve months. This assessment includes a determination of whether the investment is expected to recover in value and whether the Company has the intent and ability to hold the investment until the anticipated recovery in value occurs. When an investment is identified as having an other-than-temporary impairment loss, we adjust the cost basis of the investment down to fair value resulting in a realized loss. The new cost basis is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair value and temporary future increases or decreases in fair value are included in other comprehensive income . Reclassification Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current year presentation. Inventory The Company currently purchases and produces inventory prior to U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") or other regulatory agency approval. We do not believe probable future economic benefit can be asserted prior to the de novo request being granted by the U.S.FDA. Accordingly, the Company does not capitalize pre-launch inventory prior to receipt of marketingauthorization, unless the regulatory review process has progressed to a point that objective and persuasive evidence of regulatory approval is sufficiently probable, and future economic benefit can be asserted. Costs associated with the Company's purchase of inventory are either reported as research and development costs, or if the inventory is used in marketing evaluations, as sales, general and administrative costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Revenue The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 605, "Revenue Recognition," when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, collection is reasonably assured and delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered. Additional considerations include whether the applicable fee arrangement contains future delivery or performance obligations that should be divided into separate accounting units, whether the arrangement requires the Company to retain risks consistent with a collaborative arrangement, and/or whether any of the fees are contingent on the achievement of future milestones. Deferred revenue represents amounts received but not yet earned under existing agreements. Revenue from operations includes product sales, principally of Accelerate Pheno systems (formerly referred to as Accelerate ID/AST systems). When an instrument is sold, revenue is generally recognized upon installation of the unit consistent with contract terms, which do not include a right of return. Warranty A limited warranty of less than a year is covered under selected contracts. Accordingly, a provision for the estimated cost of the limited warranty repair is recorded at the time revenue is recognized. Our estimated warranty provision is based on our estimate of future repair events and the related estimated cost of repairs. The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of the warranty reserve and adjusts the amount as necessary. The expense incurred for these provisions is included in sales, general and administrative on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Foreign Currency Translation and Foreign Currency Transactions The Company follows ASC 830 "Foreign Currency Matters," which provides guidance on foreign currency transactions and translation of financial statements. Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency 8 financial statements into U.S. dollars are included in the foreign currency translation adjustment, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The Company has assets and liabilities, primarily receivables and payables, which are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. These balance sheet items are subject to re-measurement, the impact of which is recorded in foreign currency exchange gain or loss, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. NOTE 2. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( " FASB " ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( " ASU " ) 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the guidance on measuring credit losses on financial assets (including trade accounts receivable and available for sale debt securities) held at amortized cost. Currently, an " incurred loss " methodology is used for recognizing credit losses which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. The amendment requires assets valued at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected using an allowance for credit losses. Reversal of credit losses on available for sale debt securities will be recorded in the current period net income. The amendment will be effective for us on January 1, 2020 with early adoption permitted. We do not anticipate this guidance will have a significant impact on our financial statements and plan to adopt on the effective date. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax effects of awards in the income statement when the awards vest or are settled, thus eliminating additional paid in capital pools. The guidance also allows for the employer to repurchase more of an employee's shares for tax withholding purposes without triggering liability accounting. In addition, the guidance allows for a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. The guidance is effective for us on January 1, 2017 with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our financial statements and plan to adopt on the effective date. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This replaces the existing standards relating to leases for both lessees and lessors. For lessees, the new standard requires most leases to be recorded on the balance sheet with expenses recognized much like the existing standard. For lessors, the new standard modifies the classification criteria and accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases and eliminates leveraged leases. For both lessees and lessors, the standard eliminates real estate-specific provisions, changes some of the presentation and disclosure requirements, and changes sale and leaseback criteria. The ASU is required for us on January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09 , Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We are carefully evaluating our existing revenue recognition practices to determine whether any contracts in the scope of the guidance will be affected by the new requirements. The effects may include identifying performance obligations in existing arrangements, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. We will also establish practices to determine when a performance obligation has been satisfied, and recognize revenue in accordance with the new requirements. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date resulting in a new effective date of January 1, 2018 for us. We are permitted to adopt early but not before the original effective date of January 1, 2017. FASB has issued several other ASU's which provide further guidance on Topic 606 and have the same effective date. The standard allows for either "full retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied to all of the periods presented, or "modified retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied only to the most current period presented in the financial statements. We are currently evaluating the transition method and the adoption date that will be elected. We will implement ASU 2014-09 and all relevant subsequently issued ASU's on Topic 606 concurrently. 9 NOTE 3. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The following tables represent the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis on the financial statements of the Company and the valuation approach applied to each class of financial instruments at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . Level 1 assets are priced using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets which include cash accounts, money market funds, certificates of deposit and U.S. Treasury securities as these specific assets are liquid. Level 2 available-for-sale securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. The Company uses inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from quoted market prices, independent pricing vendors, or other sources, to determine the ultimate fair value of these assets and liabilities. The Company uses such pricing data as the primary input to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment portfolio and has not made, during the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs. There were no transfers between levels during the nine months ended September30, 2016 . 10 NOTE 4. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable, including receivables from major customers. The Company's main financial institution for banking operations held 70% and 100% of the Company's cash and cash equivalents as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , respectively. The Company extends credit to domestic and international clients in various industries. Exposure to losses on accounts receivable is principally dependent on each client's financial position. At September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 , $147,000 or 93% and $50,000 or 66% , respectively, of the Company's outstanding receivable balance was with one grantor. See Note 7, License Agreements and Grants for more information. One customer accounted for 100% of product sales for the three months ended September30, 2016 , while two customers accounted for 100% of product sales for the nine months ended September30, 2016 . 100% product sales for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 was with a third customer. NOTE 5. INVESTMENTS The following tables summarize the Company's available-for-sale investments at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company's available-for-sale securities at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 : 11 Proceeds from sales of marketable securities (including principal paydowns), for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were $7,716,000 and $0 , respectively, and for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were $8,716,000 and $141,000 , respectively. The Company determines gains and losses of marketable securities based on specific identification of the securities sold. There were $6,000 realized gains from sales of marketable securities for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 , and no gross realized gains or losses from sales of marketable securities for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 . The gross proceeds associated with the realized gains for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 were $7,204,000 . The balance of unrealized gains reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September30, 2016 was $16,000 . No balances were reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income for the three and nine months ended September30, 2015 . No other-than-temporary impairments are recorded as no material investment had a fair value that remained less than its cost for more than twelve months as of September30, 2016 and there have been no other indicators of impairment. The Company does not intend to sell investments and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell investments before recovering the amortized cost. Additional information regarding the fair value of our financial instruments is included in Note 3, Fair Value of Financial Instruments . NOTE 6. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are recorded at cost and consisted of the following at September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 . Depreciation expense (which includes amortization of capital lease assets) for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was $598,000 and $465,000 , respectively, and for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was $1,745,000 and $1,194,000 , respectively. NOTE 7. LICENSE AGREEMENTS AND GRANTS Defense Medical Research and Development Program In May 2012, the Company and Denver Health were notified that the Defense Medical Research and 12 Development Program ("DMRDP") recommended $2.0 million of funding for a proposed 35 -month project. The joint proposal became the sole recipient under the Military Infectious Diseases Applied Research Award program for rapid detection of serious antibiotic-resistant infections. The project will apply the Accelerate Pheno system to wound infections and other serious infections secondary to trauma. The Company has invoiced a cumulative total of $612,000 under this grant which is recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The amounts invoiced for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were $10,000 and $43,000 , respectively, and for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was $54,000 were $179,000 , respectively. The period of performance for this grant was complete as of September 30, 2016. National Institute of Health Grant In February 2015, the National Institute of Health awarded Denver Health and the Company a five year, $5.0 million grant to develop a fast and reliable identification and categorical susceptibility test carbepenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae directly from whole blood. The Company completed the first subaward agreement with Denver Health for services provided as part of this grant on January 31, 2016. A second subward was obtained which continued the period of performance through January 31, 2017. The cumulative award amount under these subawards is $818,000 . The amounts invoiced for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were $8,000 and $467,000 , respectively, and for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were $67,000 and $467,000 , respectively. Amounts invoiced under this grant are recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. Arizona Commerce Authority In August 2012, the Company entered into a Grant Agreement (the "Grant Agreement") with the Arizona Commerce Authority, an agency of the State of Arizona (the "Authority"), pursuant to which the Authority provided certain state and county sponsored incentives for the Company to relocate its corporate headquarters to, and expand its business within, the State of Arizona (the "Project"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Authority agreed to provide a total grant in the amount of $1.0 million (the "Grant") for the use by the Company in the advancement of the Project. The Grant is payable out of an escrow account in four installments, upon the achievement of the following milestones: Milestone 1 Relocation of Company's operations and corporate headquarters to Arizona and creation of 15 Qualified Jobs (as defined below). Milestone 2 Creation of 30 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestone 1). Milestone 3 Creation of 40 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1 and 2). Milestone 4 Creation of 65 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1, 2 and 3) and capital investment of at least $4.5 million . For purposes of the Grant Agreement, a "Qualified Job" is a job that is permanent, full-time, new to Arizona, and for which the Company pays average (across all Qualified Jobs identified by the Company in its discretion) annual wages of at least $63,000 and offers health insurance benefits and pays at least 65% of the premiums associated with such benefits. The amount of each installment payment will be determined in accordance with a formula specified in the Grant Agreement. The Grant Agreement also contains other customary provisions, including representations, warranties and covenants of both parties. As of September30, 2016 , the Company has collected all of the $1.0 million in milestones. The full amount is recorded in long-term deferred income until the economic development provisions of the grant have been satisfied in full, as there are "claw-back" provisions which would require repayment of certain amounts received if employment levels are not sustained during the term of the arrangement. Once the "claw-back" provisions expire in January 2018, we will recognize the grant as an offset to expense. Further details are included in Note 8, Deferred Revenue and Income . Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program The Company has applied for and met the program requirements to receive a "Certificate of Qualification" from the Arizona Commerce Authority ("Authority"), which allows the Company to be eligible for a partial refund of research and development investments ("Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program"). The amounts incurred under this program are recorded as an offset to research and development expenses, and for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 were $1.2 million and $647,000 , respectively, and no amounts were incurred for the 13 three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 . The refund for the 2014 and 2015 tax years is collected. If the amount received for this program is later determined to be incorrect or invalid, the excess may need to be repaid. NOTE 8. DEFERRED REVENUE AND INCOME Deferred revenue consists of amounts received for products or services not yet delivered or earned. Deferred income consists of amounts received for commitments not yet fulfilled. If we anticipate that the revenue or income will not be earned within the following twelve months, the amount is reported as long-term deferred income. A summary of the balances as of September30, 2016 and December31, 2015 follows: We have received $1.0 million in milestone payments from the Arizona Commerce Authority under the Grant Agreement described in Note 7, License Agreements and Grants . As of September30, 2016 , no such payments have been recognized in income, and we do not anticipate recognizing such payments as income until the "claw-back" provisions under the Grant Agreement expire in January 2018. 14 NOTE 9. STOCK PURCHASE In April 2012, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Abeja Ventures, LLC pursuant to which the Company agreed, among other things, to issue a warrant to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. Further details of this agreement are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2015 , as filed with the SEC on March 9, 2016. As of December31, 2015 there were 571,160 shares unexercised. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 , warrants to purchase 143,344 shares were exercised at an exercise price of $2.00 per share, leaving 427,816 shares unexercised at September 30, 2016 . Proceeds from the exercise of such warrants totaling $287,000 are recorded as common stock and contributed capital in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet included in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements of this report. NOTE 10. EARNINGS PER SHARE The financial statements show basic and diluted loss per share. The Company's net loss for the periods presented caused the inclusion of all outstanding warrants, restricted stocks and options to purchase our common stock to be antidilutive. As of September30, 2016 , and December31, 2015 , there were common stock options, restricted stock units and warrants exercisable for 7,439,375 and 6,778,580 shares of common stock, respectively, which were not included in diluted loss per share as the effect was antidilutive. NOTE 11. EMPLOYEE AND CONSULTANT EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION The following table summarizes option activity under all plans during the nine -month period ending September30, 2016 : The table below summarizes the resulting weighted average inputs used to calculate the estimated fair value of options awarded for during the periods shown below: The following table shows summary information for outstanding options, options that are exercisable (vested) and outstanding options that are either vested or expected to vest as of September30, 2016 : 15 The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity during the nine -month period ending September30, 2016 : The expense recognized on Company's Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss related to options is summarized below: As of September30, 2016 , unrecognized equity-based compensation cost related to unvested stock options and unvested restricted stock units was $12.0 million and $409,000 respectively. This is expected to be recognized over the years 2016 through 2021 . NOTE 12. COMMITMENTS Leases The Company has entered into lease agreements, lease amendments, and lease extensions ("Lease Agreements") for office, laboratory and manufacturing space located in Tucson, Arizona and Europe, the last of which expires in 2018. Total rent expense, including common area charges was $286,000 and $208,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was $826,000 and $490,000 , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under operating lease agreements are as follows: 16 Clinical Trial Agreements The Company has entered into master agreements with clinical trial sites in which we typically pay a set amount for start-up costs and then pay for work performed. These agreements typically indemnify the clinical trial sites from any and all losses arising from third party claims as a result of the Company's negligence, willful misconduct or misrepresentation. The Company incurred clinical trial expense of $354,000 and $665,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and $1,778,000 and $1,023,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The expense incurred as part of the clinical trial is included in research and development on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Legal Matters On March 19, 2015, a putative securities class action lawsuit was filed against Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., Lawrence Mehren, and Steve Reichling, Rapp v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., U.S. District Court, District of Arizona, 2:2015-cv-00504. The complaint alleges that we violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and SEC Rule 10b-5, by making false or misleading statements about our Accelerate Pheno system, formerly called the BACcel System. Plaintiff purports to bring the action on behalf of a class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between March 7, 2014 and February 17, 2015. On June 9, 2015, Julia Chang was appointed Lead Plaintiff of the purported class. On June 23, 2015, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b- 5, by making false or misleading statements or omissions about our ID/AST System and by allegedly employing schemes to defraud. Plaintiff sought certification of the action as a class action, compensatory damages for the class in an unspecified amount, legal fees and costs, and such other relief as the court may order. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on July 21, 2015. The Court granted the motion and dismissed the case with prejudice on January 28, 2016. On February 26, 2016, Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which challenges the dismissal of the amended complaint. Chang v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., No. 2:15-CV-00504-SPL (9th Cir. filed Feb. 26, 2016). The appeal has been fully briefed and is pending. NOTE 13. SEGMENTS The Company operates as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance. The Company's business operates in one operating segment because the Company's chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company's financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since the Company operates in one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. NOTE 14. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In June 2016 , the Companyrecorded a net amount of $866,000 related to the recovery of short-swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.The Company recognized these related party proceeds as an increase to contributed capital on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. 17 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introductory Note Except as otherwise indicated by the context, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this "Form 10-Q") to the "Company," "Accelerate," "we," "us" or "our" are references to the combined business of Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. The Accelerate Pheno system, is also generically referred to herein as the "ID/AST System" or "Accelerate ID/AST System". Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the Company, intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. These forward-looking statements, which can be identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," or "continue," or variations thereon or comparable terminology, include the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products and future economic performance of the Company. In addition, all statements other than statements of historical facts that address activities, events, or developments the Company expects, believes, or anticipates will or may occur in the future, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that the Company will retain key management personnel, the Company will be successful in the development of the Accelerate Pheno system, the Company will obtain sufficient capital to complete the development and required clinical trials of the Accelerate Pheno system, the Company will be able to protect its intellectual property, the Company's ability to respond to technological change, that the Company will accurately anticipate market demand for the Company's products and that there will be no material adverse change in the Company's operations or business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking statements will be realized. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and contractual obligations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere herein. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below and elsewhere in this report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's future operating results may be affected by various trends and factors which are beyond the Company's control. These include, among other factors, general public perception of issues and solutions, and other uncertain business conditions that may affect the Company's business. The Company cautions the reader that a number of important factors discussed herein, and in other reports, filed with the SEC including but not limited to the risks in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December31, 2015 could affect the Company's actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Our MD&A is composed of the following sections: Overview, Changes in Results of Operations, Capital Resources and Liquidity and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest thousand unless otherwise indicated. 18 Overview Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions that improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Microbiology laboratories are in need of new tools to address what the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention calls one of the most serious healthcare threats of our time, antibiotic resistance. A significant contributing factor to the rise of resistance is the overuse and misuse of antibiotics, which is exacerbated by a lack of timely diagnostic results. The delay of these results is often due to the reliance by microbiology laboratories on traditional culture-based tests that often take two to three days to complete. Our technology platform is built to address these challenges by delivering significantly faster and accurate testing of infectious pathogens in various patient sample types. Since 2004, we have focused our efforts on the development of an innovative rapid diagnostic platform, the Accelerate Pheno system, intended for the rapid diagnosis of infectious pathogens. Our goal is to reduce the failure rate of initial antibiotic drug therapy by shortening lab turnaround time to hours rather than the two to three days now required to deliver identification and susceptibility results. The ID/AST System utilizes genotypic technology to identify, or ID, infectious pathogens and phenotypic technology to conduct antibiotic susceptibility testing, or AST, which determines whether live bacterial or fungal cells are resistant or susceptible to a particular antibiotic. The ID/AST blood culture assay kit, which we refer to as the Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit, is being investigated for its ability to provide ID and AST results for patients suspected of bacteremia or fungemia, both life-threatening conditions with high morbidity and mortality risk. The Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit is a highly multiplexed panel targeting 140 individual assays which have the potential to support clinicians in prescribing optimal antibiotic therapy for patients in this critical condition. The final number of assays included in the Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit will depend on the results of FDA's review of each individual assay for marketing clearance. This panel is designed to cover over 80% of the routine and significant pathogens causing blood stream infections and over 90% of the antibiotics useful in treating those pathogens. On June 30, 2015, we declared our conformity to the European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79 EC and applied a CE Mark to the Accelerate Pheno system and the Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit for in vitro diagnostic use. On July 11, 2016 Accelerate submitted to the FDA a De Novo request for pre market authorization of its Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit based on a clinical study representing over 1,800 samples across 13 sites. We anticipate commercializing the Accelerate Pheno system in the United States, subject to clearance by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). We expect to have a decision no later than the first quarter of 2017, or as early as the fourth quarter of 2016. Changes in Results of Operations: three months ended September30, 2016 compared to three months ended September30, 2015 During the three months ended September30, 2016 , total revenues were $24,000 as compared to $92,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 , a decrease of $68,000 or 74% . The decrease was due to sales of Accelerate Pheno systems (Research Use Only) during the three months ended September30, 2015 . The Company does not currently capitalize pre-launch inventory and the cost of product sales is reported as research and development costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Research and development expenses for the three months ended September30, 2016 were $7,531,000 as compared to $6,499,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of $1,032,000 or 16% . The increase was primarily the result of increasing employee headcount, clinical trial fees, and increased purchases of laboratory and instrument engineering supplies to support research and development as well as pre-launch efforts. Research and development expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 of $504,000 and $406,000 , respectively, which increased $98,000 . We do not capitalize our inventory prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP, accordingly instruments and consumables charged to research and development were $795,000 and $235,000 for three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. During the three months ended September30, 2016 , sales, general and administrative expenses were $9,308,000 as compared to $4,332,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of $4,976,000 or 115% . The increase was primarily driven by salaries and related expenses as we ramp up our sales and marketing operations globally. Sales, general and administrative expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the 19 three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 of $2,166,000 and $1,404,000 , respectively, which increased $762,000 . We do not capitalize our internally developed instruments prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP at which time we believe the costs will be recoverable and, therefore, sales, general and administrative expenses include performance verification program and demonstration instruments as expense totaling $1,181,000 and $31,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Depreciation for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $598,000 as compared to $465,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of $133,000 or 29% . The increased depreciation was the result of purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements to support the Company's Tucson facility laboratory, manufacturing and administrative space. As a result of the above factors, loss from operations for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $17,416,000 as compared to the loss of $11,207,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 , an increase in loss from operations of $6,209,000 or 55% . Loss from operations include non-cash equity-based compensation for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 of $2,670,000 and $1,810,000 , respectively, which increased $860,000 . This loss and further losses are anticipated and was the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and commercialize the Company's products. Other non-operating income during the three months ended September30, 2016 was $117,000 as compared to $21,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of $96,000 or 457% . This change was due to an increase in investment income. As a result of these factors, net loss for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $17,299,000 as compared to a net loss of $11,186,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 , an increase in net loss of $6,113,000 or 55% . Unrealized loss on available-for-sale investments for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $70,000 as compared to $1,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 . Foreign currency translation adjustment loss for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $8,000 as compared to $2,000 during the three months ended September30, 2015 . The resulting comprehensive losses were $17,377,000 and $11,189,000 for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Changes in Results of Operations: nine months ended September30, 2016 compared to nine months ended September30, 2015 During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , total revenues were $207,000 as compared to $125,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of 82,000 or 66% . The increase was due to sales of Accelerate Pheno systems (Research Use Only) during the nine months ended September30, 2016 . The Company does not currently capitalize pre-launch inventory and the cost of product sales is reported as research and development costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Research and development expenses for the nine months ended September30, 2016 were $22,948,000 as compared to $19,356,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of $3,592,000 or 19% . The increase was primarily the result of increasing employee headcount, clinical trial fees, and increased purchases of laboratory and instrument engineering supplies to support research and development as well as pre-launch efforts. Research and development expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 of $1,168,000 and $1,842,000 , respectively, which decreased $674,000 . We do not capitalize our inventory prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP, accordingly instruments and consumables charged to research and development were $3,897,000 and $2,446,000 for nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. During the nine months ended September30, 2016 , sales, general and administrative expenses were $25,983,000 as compared to $11,953,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of $14,030,000 or 117% . The increase was primarily driven by salaries and related expenses as we ramp up our sales 20 and marketing operations globally. Sales, general and administrative expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 of $5,423,000 and $4,153,000 , respectively, which increased $1,270,000 . We do not capitalize our internally developed instruments prior to FDA approval in accordance with U.S. GAAP at which time we believe the costs will be recoverable and, therefore, sales, general and administrative expenses include performance verification program and demonstration instruments as expense totaling $2,517,000 and $360,000 for nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Depreciation for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $1,745,000 as compared to $1,194,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of $551,000 or 46% . The increased depreciation was the result of purchases of equipment and leasehold improvements to support the Company's Tucson facility laboratory, manufacturing and administrative space. As a result of the above factors, loss from operations for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $50,477,000 as compared to the loss of $32,386,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 , an increase in loss from operations of $18,091,000 or 56% . Loss from operations include non-cash equity-based compensation for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 of $6,591,000 and $5,995,000 , respectively, which increased $596,000 . This loss and further losses are anticipated and was the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and commercialize the Company's products. Other non-operating income during the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $238,000 as compared to $51,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 , an increase of $187,000 or 367% . This change was due to an increase in investment income. As a result of these factors, net loss for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $50,239,000 as compared to a net loss of $32,335,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 , an increase in net loss of $17,904,000 or 55% . Unrealized gain on available-for-sale investments for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $11,000 as compared to an unrealized loss of $4,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 . Foreign currency translation adjustment loss for the nine months ended September30, 2016 was $8,000 as compared to $2,000 during the nine months ended September30, 2015 . The resulting comprehensive losses were $50,236,000 and $32,341,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity has been from sales of shares of common stock. As of September30, 2016 , the Company had $90.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, a decrease of $42.3 million from $132.4 million at December31, 2015 . The primary reason for the change in these assets was the funding of operational losses. The Company is subject to a Lease Agreement with Pima County of Arizona. The future minimum lease payments under the Lease Agreement are included in Item 1, Note 12, Commitments . As of September30, 2016 , management believes that current cash balances will be more than sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the next twelve months. 21 The following summarizes selected items in the Company's consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and September30, 2015 : The net cash used in operating activities was $40.6 million and $25.2 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and was primarily comprised of the net loss from the statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The net cash used in investing activities was $52.2 million and $3.6 million for the nine months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and was primarily comprised of purchases of available-for-sale investments, offset by the maturity of other available-for-sale investments during such periods. The net cash provided by financing activities was $983,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2016 . This is primarily comprised of proceeds received from the recovery of related party short swing profits and exercised options and warrants; which were partially offset by stock issuance costs paid in the period for the prior year issuance of common stock. The net cash provided by financing activities was $432,000 for the nine months ended September30, 2015 and was primarily comprised of exercised options. Our primary use of capital has been for the continued development and investment in commercialization readiness of the Accelerate Pheno system. We believe our capital requirements will continue to be met with our existing cash balance and those provided under grants, exercises of warrants and stock options and/or, additional issuance of equity or debt securities. However, if capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional capital sooner than expected. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Additional issuances of equity or convertible debt securities will result in dilution to our current common stockholders. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September30, 2016 .Item 1. Financial Statements ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (in thousands) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 3 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Unaudited (in thousands, except per share data) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 4 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Unaudited (in thousands) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 5 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unaudited NOTE 1. ORGANIZATION AND NATURE OF BUSINESS; BASIS OF PRESENTATION; PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION; SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. ("we" or "us" or "our" or "Accelerate" or "the Company") is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions which improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") and applicable rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding interim financial reporting. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. Therefore, these condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2016 , as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2017. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2016 , included herein was derived from the audited financial statements as of that date, but does not include all disclosures such as notes required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods presented, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for the entire year ending December 31, 2017 , or any future period. All amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars unless otherwise indicated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances. Cash and Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less at time of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include overnight repurchase agreement accounts and other investments. As part of our cash management process, excess operating cash is invested in overnight repurchase agreements with our bank. Repurchase agreements and other investments classified as cash and cash equivalents are not deposits and are not insured by the U.S. Government, the FDIC or any other government agency and involve investment risk including possible loss of principal. We believe however, that the market risk arising from holding these financial instruments is minimal. Investments The Company invests excess funds in various investments which are primarily held in the custody of major financial institutions. Investments consist of debt securities in U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. Management classifies its investments as available-for-sale investments and 6 records these investments in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The Company considers all available-for-sale securities, including those with maturity dates beyond 12 months, as available to support current operational liquidity needs. Unrealized gains or losses for available-for-sale securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of stockholders' equity. The Company classifies its investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations. The Company assesses whether an other-than-temporary impairment loss has occurred due to declines in fair value or other market conditions when an investment's fair value remains less than its cost for more than twelve months. This assessment includes a determination of whether the investment is expected to recover in value and whether the Company has the intent and ability to hold the investment until the anticipated recovery in value occurs. When an investment is identified as having an other-than-temporary impairment loss, we adjust the cost basis of the investment down to fair value resulting in a realized loss. The new cost basis is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair value and temporary future increases or decreases in fair value are included in other comprehensive income . Reclassification Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current year presentation and had no effect on our net income, stockholders' equity or cash flows. Specifically, in the current period presentation and the revised prior period presentation, depreciation and amortization expenses are reported as a component of the individual costs and expenses as part of the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The amount of depreciation and amortization expenses for the three months ended March31, 2016 which is now reported as a component of research and development costs is $322,000 . The amount of depreciation and amortization expenses for the three months ended March31, 2016 which is now reported as a component of sales, general and administrative costs is $223,000 . In the current and revised prior period presentation, product sales and licensing and royalty revenues are reported as net sales as part of the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The amounts that have been reclassified had no effect on our net income, stockholders' equity or cash flows. Inventory Inventory is stated at the lesser of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on the first-in-first-out method. The allocation of production overhead to inventory costs is based on normal production capacity. Abnormal amounts of idle facility expense and spoilage are expensed as incurred, and not included in overhead subject to capitalization. The Company maintains provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on management's estimates of forecasted demand and, where applicable, product expiration. The Company adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (Topic 310) Inventory on January 1, 2017. This ASU simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventory by using only the lower of cost or net realizable value. The adoption did not have an effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Revenue The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition , when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, collection is reasonably assured and delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered. Additional considerations include whether the applicable fee arrangement contains future delivery or performance obligations that should be divided into separate accounting units, whether the arrangement requires the Company to retain risks consistent with a collaborative arrangement, and/or whether any of the fees are contingent on the achievement of future milestones. Product revenue is derived from the sale or rental of our instruments and sales of related consumable products. When an instrument is sold, revenue is generally recognized upon installation of the unit consistent with contract terms, which do not include a right of return. When a consumable product is sold, revenue is generally recognized upon shipment. We also provide instruments to customers under bundled rental agreements. Under these agreements, we install the instrument in the customer's facility and provide service. The customer agrees to purchase consumable products at a stated price over the term of the agreement which is typically less than seven years. Contracts sometimes have renewal clauses but such clauses do not provide for a bargain renewal option or penalize the customer if they don't renew. The instrument remains the Company's property throughout the term of the agreement and there is no 7 transfer of title upon expiration. Revenue is recognized as consumable products are shipped or delivered, depending on contract terms. For multiple element arrangements, the total consideration for an arrangement is allocated among the separate elements in the arrangement based on a selling price hierarchy. The selling price hierarchy for a deliverable is based on: (1)vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE"), if available; (2)third party evidence of selling price if VSOE is not available; or (3)an estimated selling price, if neither VSOE nor third party evidence is available. Estimated selling price is our best estimate of the selling price of an element in a transaction. The Company limits the amount of revenue recognized for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services or other future performance obligations. Leases The Company accounts for leases in accordance with ASC 840, Leases, which requires leases to be classified as either operating or capital leases. In general, the Company classifies leases as capital leases when there is either a transfer of ownership at the end of the lease term, the lease contains a bargain purchase option, the lease term is seventy-five percent or more of the estimated economic life of the leased property or the minimum lease payments are ninety percent or more of the fair value at lease inception. Other leases are classified as operating leases. Operating lease rent is recorded as an operating expense monthly. For capital leases, both an asset and liability are recorded at the inception of the lease based on the present value of lease payments. The asset is included with property and equipment on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease reported as a component of the individual costs and expenses as part of the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. For the liability, the amount due within the next year is recorded as capital lease obligations and the amount due in more than a year is recorded as long-term capital lease obligation on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Interest expense is recorded based on the implicit or explicit interest rate used in the lease and is included as non-operating interest expense on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Equity-Based Compensation The Company awards stock options and other equity-based instruments to its employees, directors and consultants. Compensation cost related to equity-based instruments is based on the fair value of the instrument on the grant date, and is recognized over the requisite service period on a straight-line basis over the vesting period for each tranche (an accelerated attribution method). For unvested consultant grants, the assumptions are updated at the end of each reporting period until the grant is vested. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option awards, including modifications of stock option awards, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model derives the fair value of stock options based on certain assumptions related to expected stock price volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. Volatility: The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Company's stock price over the most recent period commensurate with the expected term of the stock option award. Expected term: The estimated expected term for employee awards is based on the calculation published by the SEC in SAB110 for use when there is not a sufficient history of employee exercise patterns. For consultant awards, the estimated expected term is the same as the life of the award. Risk-free interest rate: The risk-free interest rate is based on published U.S. Treasury rates for a term commensurate with the expected term. Dividend yield: The dividend yield is estimated as zero as the Company has not paid dividends in the past and does not have any plans to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company implemented ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting on January 1, 2017. Pursuant to this guidance, we made a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. For periods prior to the adoption of this ASU, the Company estimated the forfeiture rate of unvested awards based on the forfeitures in the previous twelve-month period. The rate was calculated separately for awards to the board of directors/executives and all other awards. Further information regarding this change is included in Note 13, Employee Equity-Based Compensation . 8 The Company also has an employee stock purchase program whereby eligible employees can elect payroll deductions that are subsequently used to purchase common stock at a discounted price. There is no compensation recorded for this program as (i) the purchase discount does not exceed the issuance costs that would have been incurred to raise a significant amount of capital by a public offering, (ii) substantially all employees that meet limited employment qualifications may participate on an equitable basis, and (iii) the plan doesn't incorporate option features that would require compensation to be recorded. See Note 13, Employee Equity-Based Compensation for further information. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of raw materials, direct labor and stock-based compensation expense, manufacturing overhead, facility costs and warranty costs. Warranty Instruments are typically sold with a 1 year limited warranty, while kits and accessories are typically sold with a 60 day limited warranty. Accordingly, a provision for the estimated cost of the limited warranty repair is recorded at the time revenue is recognized. Our estimated warranty provision is based on our estimate of future repair events and the related estimated cost of repairs. The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of the warranty reserve and adjusts the amount as necessary. The expense incurred for these provisions is included in cost of sales on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Shipping and Handling Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are included as a component of revenue. The corresponding expense incurred with third party carriers is included as a component of sales, general and administrative costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Foreign Currency Translation and Foreign Currency Transactions The Company follows ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters , which provides guidance on foreign currency transactions and translation of financial statements. Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are included in the foreign currency translation adjustment, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The Company has assets and liabilities, primarily receivables and payables, which are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. These balance sheet items are subject to re-measurement, the impact of which is recorded in foreign currency exchange gain or loss, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. NOTE 2. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2017-08, Receivable-Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Topic 310-20) Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities. This amendment shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium. Specifically, the amendment requires premiums to be amortized to the earliest call date. The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity. The guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. The amendments should be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. The update amends accounting guidance for intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory 9 to require the recognition of income tax consequences when the transfer occurs. The update is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective approach should be applied. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the guidance on measuring credit losses on financial assets (including trade accounts receivable and available for sale debt securities) held at amortized cost. Currently, an "incurred loss" methodology is used for recognizing credit losses, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. The amendment requires assets valued at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected using an allowance for credit losses. Reversal of credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded in the current period net income. The amendment will be effective for us on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. We do not anticipate this guidance will have a significant impact on our financial statements and plan to adopt on the effective date. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This replaces the existing standards relating to leases for both lessees and lessors. For lessees, the new standard requires most leases to be recorded on the balance sheet with expenses recognized much like the existing standard. For lessors, the new standard modifies the classification criteria and accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases and eliminates leveraged leases. For both lessees and lessors, the standard eliminates real estate-specific provisions, changes some of the presentation and disclosure requirements, and changes sale and leaseback criteria. The ASU is required for us on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date resulting in a new effective date of January 1, 2018, for us. We are permitted to adopt early but not before the original effective date of January 1, 2017. FASB has issued several other ASU's which provide further guidance on Topic 606 and have the same effective date. The standard allows for either "full retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied to all of the periods presented, or "modified retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied only to the most current period presented in the financial statements. We will implement ASU 2014-09 and all relevant subsequently issued ASU's on Topic 606 concurrently on January 1, 2018, and are currently evaluating the transitions method. We are carefully evaluating our existing revenue recognition practices to determine whether any contracts in the scope of the guidance will be affected by the new requirements. The effects may include identifying performance obligations in existing arrangements, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. We will also establish practices to determine when a performance obligation has been satisfied, and recognize revenue in accordance with the new requirements. Given limited revenues have been recognized to date, we have not yet determined the effect of the standard. NOTE 3. FDA CLEARANCE On February 23, 2017, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") granted Accelerate's de novo request to market the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit for identification and antibiotic susceptibility testing of pathogens directly from positive blood culture samples. Due to marketing and distribution lead-time constraints the Company manufactured inventory in advance of regulatory approval (pre-launch inventory). On January 1, 2017, the regulatory review process had progressed to a point that objective and persuasive evidence of approval was sufficiently probable, and a future economic benefit existed. On January 1, 2017, the Company started capitalizing pre-launch inventory. Additional information regarding inventory is included in Item 1, Note 7, Inventory . Prior to January 1, 2017, all pre-launch inventory was not capitalized, because a future economic benefit couldn't be asserted. Costs associated with the Company's purchase of inventory were reported as research and 10 development costs, or if the inventory was used in marketing evaluations, as sales, general and administrative costs on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. NOTE 4. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The following tables represent the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis on the financial statements of the Company and the valuation approach applied to each class of financial instruments at March31, 2017 , and December31, 2016 . Money market funds are included in cash and cash equivalents on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Level 1 assets are priced using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets which include money market funds and U.S. Treasury securities as these specific assets are liquid. Level 2 available-for-sale securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding 11 market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. The Company uses inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from quoted market prices, independent pricing vendors, or other sources, to determine the ultimate fair value of these assets and liabilities. The Company uses such pricing data as the primary input to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment portfolio and has not made, during the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs. There were no transfers between levels during the three months ended March31, 2017 . NOTE 5. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable, including receivables from major customers. The Company's main financial institution for banking operations held 34% and 57% of the Company's cash and cash equivalents as of March31, 2017 , and December31, 2016 , respectively. NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS The following tables summarize the Company's available-for-sale investments at March31, 2017 , and December31, 2016 : The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company's available-for-sale securities at March31, 2017 , and December31, 2016 : 12 Proceeds from sales of marketable securities (including principal paydowns) for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , were $0 and $500,000 respectively. The Company determines gains and losses of marketable securities based on specific identification of the securities sold. There were no gross realized gains and losses from sales of marketable securities for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 . No other-than-temporary impairments are recorded as no material investment had a fair value that remained less than its cost for more than twelve months as of March31, 2017 , and there have been no other indicators of impairment. The Company does not intend to sell investments and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell investments before recovering the amortized cost. Additional information regarding the fair value of our financial instruments is included in Note 4, Fair Value of Financial Instruments . NOTE 7. INVENTORY Inventory is stated at the lesser of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on the first-in-first-out method. The allocation of production overhead to inventory costs is based on normal production capacity. Abnormal amounts of idle facility expense and spoilage are expensed as incurred, and not included in overhead subject to capitalization. The Company maintains provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on management's estimates of forecasted demand and, where applicable, product expiration. The components of inventories were as follows (in thousands): 13 NOTE 8. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are recorded at cost and consisted of the following at March31, 2017 , and December31, 2016 . Depreciation (which includes amortization of capital lease assets) for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , was $505,000 and $542,000 , respectively. NOTE 9. LICENSE AGREEMENTS AND GRANTS National Institute of Health Grant In February 2015, the National Institute of Health awarded Denver Health and the Company a five -year, $5.0 million grant to develop a fast and reliable identification and categorical susceptibility test carbepenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae directly from whole blood. The cumulative sub-award amount is $818,000 , under which the Company has invoiced a total of $560,000 , which is recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The amounts invoiced for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , were $3,000 and $9,000 , respectively. Arizona Commerce Authority In August 2012, the Company entered into a Grant Agreement (the "Grant Agreement") with the Arizona Commerce Authority, an agency of the State of Arizona (the "Authority"), pursuant to which the Authority provided certain state and county sponsored incentives for the Company to relocate its corporate headquarters to, and expand its business within, the State of Arizona (the "Project"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Authority agreed to provide a total grant in the amount of $1.0 million (the "Grant") for the use by the Company in the advancement of the Project. The Grant is payable out of an escrow account in four installments, upon the achievement of the following milestones: Milestone 1 Relocation of Company's operations and corporate headquarters to Arizona and creation of 15 Qualified Jobs (as defined below). Milestone 2 Creation of 30 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestone 1). Milestone 3 Creation of 40 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1 and 2). Milestone 4 Creation of 65 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1, 2 and 3) and capital investment of at least $4.5 million . For purposes of the Grant Agreement, a "Qualified Job" is a job that is permanent, full-time, new to Arizona, and for which the Company pays average (across all Qualified Jobs identified by the Company in its discretion) annual wages of at least $63,000 and offers health insurance benefits and pays at least 65% of the premiums associated with such benefits. The amount of each installment payment will be determined in accordance with a formula specified in the Grant Agreement. The Grant Agreement also contains other customary provisions, including representations, warranties and covenants of both parties. As of March31, 2017 , the Company has collected all of the $1.0 million in 14 milestones. The full amount is recorded in current deferred revenue and income until the economic development provisions of the grant have been satisfied in full, as there are "claw-back" provisions which would require repayment of certain amounts received if employment levels are not sustained during the term of the arrangement. Once the "claw-back" provisions expire in January 2018, we will recognize the grant as an offset to expense. Further details are included in Note 10, Deferred Revenue and Income . Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program The Company received a "Certificate of Qualification" from the Arizona Commerce Authority ("Authority"), which allowed the Company a partial refund of research and development investments ("Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program"). The amounts incurred under this program are recorded as an offset to research and development expenses, and for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , were $0 and $1.2 million , respectively. If the amount received for this program is later determined to be incorrect or invalid, the excess may need to be repaid. NOTE 10. DEFERRED REVENUE AND INCOME Deferred revenue consists of amounts received for products or services not yet delivered or earned. Deferred income consists of amounts received for commitments not yet fulfilled. If we anticipate that the revenue or income will not be earned within the following twelve months, the amount is reported as long-term deferred income. A summary of the balances as of March31, 2017 , and December31, 2016 , follows: We have received $1.0 million in milestone payments from the Arizona Commerce Authority under the Grant Agreement described in Note 9, License Agreements and Grants . As of March31, 2017 , no such payments have been recognized in income, and we do not anticipate recognizing such payments as income until the "claw-back" provisions under the Grant Agreement expire in January 2018. 15 NOTE 11. STOCK PURCHASE In April 2012, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Abeja Ventures, LLC pursuant to which the Company agreed, among other things, to issue a warrant to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. Further details of this agreement are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2016 , as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2017. As of December31, 2016 , there were warrants to purchase 415,871 shares unexercised. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , warrants to purchase 370,307 shares were exercised at an exercise price of $2.00 per share, leaving, warrants to purchase 45,564 shares unexercised at March 31, 2017 . Proceeds from the exercise of such warrants totaling $741,000 are recorded as common stock and contributed capital in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. NOTE 12. EARNINGS PER SHARE The financial statements show basic and diluted loss per share. The Company's net loss for the periods presented caused the inclusion of all outstanding warrants, restricted stock and options to purchase our common stock to be antidilutive. As of March31, 2017 , and December31, 2016 , there were common stock options, restricted stock units and warrants exercisable for 7,594,563 and 7,313,245 shares of common stock, respectively, which were not included in diluted loss per share as the effect was antidilutive. NOTE 13. EMPLOYEE EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION The following table summarizes option activity under all plans during the three -month period ending March31, 2017 : The table below summarizes the resulting weighted average inputs used to calculate the estimated fair value of options awarded during the periods shown below: The following table shows summary information for outstanding options, options that are exercisable (vested) and outstanding options that are either vested or expected to vest as of March31, 2017 : 16 The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity during the three -month period ending March31, 2017 : The expense recognized on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss related to options is summarized below: As of March31, 2017 , $202,000 of equity-based compensation expense was a component of capitalized inventory. As of March31, 2017 , unrecognized equity-based compensation cost related to unvested stock options and unvested restricted stock units was $21.2 million and $247,000 respectively. This is expected to be recognized over the years 2017 through 2022 . As discussed in Note 1 , we implemented ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting on January 1, 2017. Pursuant to this guidance, we made a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis and therefore, equity based compensation expense for the three months ended March31, 2017 , has been calculated based on actual forfeitures in our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, rather than our previous approach which was net of estimated forfeitures. Share-based compensation expense for the three months ended March31, 2016 , is recorded net of estimated forfeitures, which were based on historical forfeitures and adjusted to reflect changes in facts and circumstances, if any. This change was accounted for using the modified retrospective transition method. This election resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment which increased our accumulated deficit 17 and additional paid-in capital of $655,000 for all outstanding awards as of January 1, 2017. We believe this election simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions. This new guidance requires that we record excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies related to the settlement of employee stock-based compensation to the income tax expense line item on our consolidated statement of operations. The new guidance also states that previously unrecognized excess tax benefits should be recognized on a modified retrospective basis as of the beginning of the annual period of adoption. At January 1, 2017, we recorded approximately $1.5 million of additional deferred tax assets, which are fully offset by a valuation allowance. Accordingly, the adoption of ASU 2016-09 did not result in an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect of the tax benefit of the stock compensation. The new guidance also requires excess tax benefits to be classified as an operating activity in the statement of cash flows rather than as a financing activity. Additionally, ASU 2016-09 requires that the minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for share-based awards be classified as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows. Adoption of ASU 2016-09 did not result in any adjustments to prior period disclosures on the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS Leases The Company has entered into lease agreements, lease amendments, and lease extensions ("Lease Agreements") for office, laboratory and manufacturing space located in Tucson, Arizona and Europe, the last of which expires in 2018. Total rent expense, including common area charges was $293,000 and $260,000 for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under operating lease agreements are as follows: Clinical Trial Agreements The Company has entered into master agreements with clinical trial sites in which we typically pay a set amount for start-up costs and then pay for work performed. These agreements typically indemnify the clinical trial sites from any and all losses arising from third party claims as a result of the Company's negligence, willful misconduct or misrepresentation. The Company incurred clinical trial expense of $9,000 and $664,000 for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. The expense incurred as part of the clinical trial is included in research and development on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Legal Matters On March 19, 2015, a putative securities class action lawsuit was filed against Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., Lawrence Mehren, and Steve Reichling, Rapp v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., U.S. District Court, District of Arizona, 2:2015-cv-00504. The complaint alleges that we violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5, by making false or misleading statements about our Accelerate Pheno system, formerly called the BACcel System. Plaintiff purports to bring the action on behalf of a class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between March 7, 2014, and February 17, 2015. On June 9, 2015, Julia Chang was appointed Lead Plaintiff of the purported class. On June 23, 2015, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5, by making false or misleading statements or omissions about our ID/AST System and by allegedly employing schemes to defraud. Plaintiff 18 sought certification of the action as a class action, compensatory damages for the class in an unspecified amount, legal fees and costs, and such other relief as the court may order. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on July 21, 2015. The Court granted the motion and dismissed the case with prejudice on January 28, 2016. On February 26, 2016, Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which challenges the dismissal of the amended complaint. Chang v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., No. 2:15-CV-00504-SPL (9th Cir. filed Feb. 26, 2016). The appeal has been fully briefed and is pending. On January 27, 2017, the appellate court informed the Company that this case is being considered for oral argument, although the exact date has not yet been set. NOTE 15. SEGMENTS The Company operates as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance. The Company's business operates in one operating segment because the Company's chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company's financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since the Company operates in one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introductory Note Except as otherwise indicated by the context, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this "Form 10-Q") to the "Company," "Accelerate," "we," "us" or "our" are references to the combined business of Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. The Accelerate Pheno system is also generically referred to herein as the "ID/AST System" or "Accelerate ID/AST System". Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. These forward-looking statements, which can be identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," or "continue," or variations thereon or comparable terminology, include the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products and future economic performance of the Company. In addition, all statements other than statements of historical facts that address activities, events, or developments the Company expects, believes, or anticipates will or may occur in the future, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that the Company will retain key management personnel, the Company will be successful in the commercialization of the Accelerate Pheno system, the Company will obtain sufficient capital to commercialize the Accelerate Pheno system and continue development of complementary products, the Company will be able to protect its intellectual property, the Company's ability to respond to technological change, that the Company will accurately anticipate market demand for the Company's products and that there will be no material adverse change in the Company's operations or business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking statements will be realized. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new 19 information, future events or otherwise. The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and contractual obligations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere herein. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below and elsewhere in this report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's future operating results may be affected by various trends and factors which are beyond the Company's control. These include, among other factors, general public perception of issues and solutions, and other uncertain business conditions that may affect the Company's business. The Company cautions the reader that a number of important factors discussed herein, and in other reports filed with the SEC including but not limited to the risks in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December31, 2016 , could affect the Company's actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Our MD&A is composed of the following sections: Overview, Changes in Results of Operations, Capital Resources and Liquidity and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest thousand unless otherwise indicated. Overview Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions that improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Microbiology laboratories are in need of new tools to address what the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention calls one of the most serious healthcare threats of our time, antibiotic resistance. A significant contributing factor to the rise of resistance is the overuse and misuse of antibiotics, which is exacerbated by a lack of timely diagnostic results. The delay of these results is often due to the reliance by microbiology laboratories on traditional culture-based tests that often take two to three days to complete. Our technology platform is built to address these challenges by delivering significantly faster and accurate testing of infectious pathogens in various patient sample types. Since 2004, we have focused our efforts on research into and the development of an innovative rapid diagnostic platform, the Accelerate Pheno system, intended for the rapid diagnosis of infectious pathogens. Our goal is to reduce the failure rate of initial antibiotic drug therapy by shortening lab turnaround time to hours rather than the two to three days now required to deliver identification and susceptibility results. The Accelerate Pheno system utilizes genotypic technology to identify, or "ID," infectious pathogens and phenotypic technology to conduct antibiotic susceptibility testing, or "AST," which determines whether live bacterial or fungal cells are resistant or susceptible to a particular antimicrobial agent. The Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit, provides ID and AST results for patients suspected of bacteremia or fungemia, both life-threatening conditions with high morbidity and mortality risk. The Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit is a highly multiplexed panel targeting over 80% of the routine and significant pathogens causing blood stream infections and over 90% of the antibiotics useful in treating those pathogens. On June 30, 2015, we declared our conformity to the European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79 EC and applied a CE Mark to the Accelerate Pheno system and the Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit for in vitro diagnostic use. On February 23, 2017, the FDA granted our de novo request to market our Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit in the United States. The Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit includes 140 assays for both identification and susceptibility testing, of which 116 were cleared by the FDA and 24 assays available in an RUO only mode of the software. Changes in Results of Operations: three months ended March31, 2017 compared to three months ended March31, 2016 During the three months ended March31, 2017 , total revenues were $530,000 as compared to $163,000 during the three months ended March31, 2016 , an increase of $367,000 or 225% . The increase was due to sales of Accelerate Pheno systems and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kits. 20 Cost of sales for the three months ended March31, 2017 , were $26,000 as compared to $0 during the three months ended March31, 2016 , an increase of $26,000 . The increase was the result of the Company capitalizing inventory in connection with the FDA granting Accelerate's de novo request to market the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit. Inventory without a cost basis was sold to customers during the three months ended March31, 2017 . This inventory was comprised of pre-launch inventory previously not capitalized, and expensed in a previous period. The cost of sales associated with this inventory during the three months ended March31, 2017 , was $179,000 . Research and development expenses for the three months ended March31, 2017 , were $4.3 million as compared to $7.7 million during the three months ended March31, 2016 , a decrease of $3.4 million or 44% . The decrease was the result of clinical trial expenses incurred for the three months ended March31, 2016 , not recurring in the current quarter. Clinical trial expenses incurred under clinical trial site master agreements for the three months ended March31, 2017 , were $9,000 as compared to $664,000 during the three months ended March31, 2016 , a decrease of $655,000 or 99% . Additionally, on January 1, 2017, the regulatory review process had progressed to a point that objective and persuasive evidence of approval was sufficiently probable, and a future economic benefit existed for the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit. The Company started capitalizing pre-launch inventory for the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit on January 1, 2017. Prior to January 1, 2017, all pre-launch inventory was not capitalized, because a future economic benefit couldn't be asserted. Pre-launch inventory not capitalized in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which included instruments and consumables charged to research and development were $1.5 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 . Research and development expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , of $726,000 and $202,000 , respectively, which increased $524,000 . The increase in non-cash equity-based compensation was primarily driven by an increase in the number of employees. During the three months ended March31, 2017 , sales, general and administrative expenses were $10.5 million as compared to $7.7 million during the three months ended March31, 2016 , an increase of $2.9 million or 37% . The increase was primarily driven by salaries and related expenses as we ramp up our sales and marketing operations globally. Pre-launch inventory not capitalized in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which included instruments and consumables charged to sales, general and administrative expenses were $588,000 for the three months ended March31, 2016 . Sales, general and administrative expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , of $2.5 million and $1.5 million , respectively, which increased $1.0 million . The increase in non-cash equity-based compensation was primarily driven by an increase in the number of employees. Depreciation for the three months ended March31, 2017 , was $505,000 as compared to $542,000 during the three months ended March31, 2016 , a decrease of $37,000 or 6.83% . The decreased depreciation was the result of equipment and leasehold improvements becoming fully depreciated. In the current period presentation and the revised prior period presentation, depreciation expenses are reported as a component of the individual costs and expenses as part of the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. As a result of the above factors, loss from operations for the three months ended March31, 2017 , was $14.3 million as compared to the loss of $15.2 million during the three months ended March31, 2016 , a decrease in loss from operations of $862,000 or 6% . Loss from operations include non-cash equity-based compensation for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , of $3.4 million and $1.7 million , respectively, which increased $1.7 million . This loss and further losses are anticipated and was the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and commercialize the Company's products. Other non-operating income during the three months ended March31, 2017 , was $110,000 as compared to $98,000 during the three months ended March31, 2016 , an increase of $12,000 or 12% . This change was due to an increase in investment income for three months ended March31, 2017 which was offset by foreign currency loss in the same period. As a result of these factors, net loss for the three months ended March31, 2017 , was $14.2 million as compared to a net loss of $15.1 million during the three months ended March31, 2016 , a decrease in net loss of $874,000 or 6% . Unrealized gain on available-for-sale investments for the three months ended March31, 2017 , was $11,000 21 as compared to $52,000 during the three months ended March31, 2016 . Foreign currency translation adjustment for the three months ended March31, 2017 , was a gain of $56,000 as compared to a loss of $49,000 during the three months ended March31, 2016 . The resulting comprehensive losses were $14.1 million and $15.1 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity has been from sales of shares of common stock. As of March31, 2017 , the Company had $63.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, a decrease of $13.8 million from $77.8 million at December31, 2016 . The primary reason for the change in these assets was the funding of operational losses. The Company is subject to a Lease Agreement with Pima County of Arizona. The future minimum lease payments under the Lease Agreement are included in Item 1, Note 14, Commitments . As of March31, 2017 , management believes that current cash balances will be more than sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the next twelve months. The following summarizes selected items in the Company's consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 : The net cash used in operating activities was $15.5 million and $13.2 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. These losses are the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and prepare to commercialize the Company's products. The net cash provided in investing activities was $4.1 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and is primarily comprised of maturities of available-for-sale investment, offset by purchases of available-for-sale investments. Net cash used in investing activities was $34.5 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 , and is primarily comprised of purchases of available-for-sale investments, offset by maturities of available-for-sale investments. The net cash provided by financing activities was $2.0 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 , and is primarily comprised of the exercise of options and warrants. The net cash used by financing activities was $799,000 for the three months ended March31, 2016 , and was primarily comprised of stock issuance costs paid in the period. Our primary use of capital has been for development and commercialization of the Accelerate Pheno system. We believe our capital requirements will continue to be met with our existing cash balance and those provided under grants, exercises of warrants and stock options and/or additional issuance of equity or debt securities. However, if capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional capital sooner than expected. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Additional issuances of equity or convertible debt securities will result in dilution to our current common stockholders. 22 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March31, 2017 .Item 1. Financial Statements ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Unaudited (in thousands) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 3 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Unaudited (in thousands, except per share data) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 4 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Unaudited (in thousands) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 5 ACCELERATE DIAGNOSTICS, INC. NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unaudited NOTE 1. ORGANIZATION AND NATURE OF BUSINESS; BASIS OF PRESENTATION; PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION; SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. ("we" or "us" or "our" or "Accelerate" or "the Company") is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions which improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Basis of Presentation The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("U.S. GAAP") and applicable rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding interim financial reporting. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. Therefore, these condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2016 , as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2017. The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2016 included herein was derived from the audited financial statements as of that date, but does not include all disclosures such as notes required by U.S. GAAP. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods presented, but are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be anticipated for the entire year ending December 31, 2017 , or any future period. All amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars unless otherwise indicated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances. Cash and Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less at time of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include overnight repurchase agreement accounts and other investments. As part of our cash management process, excess operating cash is invested in overnight repurchase agreements with our bank. Repurchase agreements and other investments classified as cash and cash equivalents are not deposits and are not insured by the U.S. Government, the FDIC or any other government agency and involve investment risk including possible loss of principal. We believe however, that the market risk arising from holding these financial instruments is minimal. Investments The Company invests excess funds in various investments which are primarily held in the custody of major financial institutions. Investments consist of debt securities in U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. Management classifies its investments as available-for-sale investments and 6 records these investments in the condensed consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The Company considers all available-for-sale securities, including those with maturity dates beyond 12 months, as available to support current operational liquidity needs. Unrealized gains or losses for available-for-sale securities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of stockholders' equity. The Company classifies its investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations. The Company assesses whether an other-than-temporary impairment loss has occurred due to declines in fair value or other market conditions when an investment's fair value remains less than its cost for more than twelve months. This assessment includes a determination of whether the investment is expected to recover in value and whether the Company has the intent and ability to hold the investment until the anticipated recovery in value occurs. When an investment is identified as having an other-than-temporary impairment loss, we adjust the cost basis of the investment down to fair value resulting in a realized loss. The new cost basis is not changed for subsequent recoveries in fair value and temporary future increases or decreases in fair value are included in other comprehensive income . Reclassification Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current year presentation and had no effect on our net income, stockholders' equity or cash flows. In the current period presentation and the revised prior period presentation, depreciation and amortization expenses are reported as a component of the individual costs and expenses as part of the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The amount of depreciation and amortization expenses now reported as a component of research and development costs for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $404,000 and $362,000 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $784,000 and $683,000 , respectively. The amount of depreciation and amortization expenses now reported as a component of sales, general and administrative costs for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $138,000 and $245,000 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $267,000 and $468,000 , respectively. In the current and revised prior period presentation, product sales and licensing and royalty revenues are reported as net sales as part of the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The amounts that have been reclassified had no effect on our net income, stockholders' equity or cash flows. Inventory Inventory is stated at the lesser of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on the first-in-first-out method. The allocation of production overhead to inventory costs is based on normal production capacity. Abnormal amounts of idle facility expense and spoilage are expensed as incurred, and not included in overhead subject to capitalization. The Company maintains provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on management's estimates of forecasted demand and, where applicable, product expiration. The Company adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (Topic 310) Inventory on January 1, 2017. This ASU simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventory by using only the lower of cost or net realizable value. The adoption did not have an effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Property and Equipment Property and equipment are recorded at cost. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred and expenditures for major improvements are capitalized. Gains and losses from retirement or replacement are included in costs and expenses. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the assets, ranging from greater than one year to seven years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the remaining life of the lease or the life of the asset, whichever is less. Property and equipment includes diagnostic instruments used for sales demonstrations and instruments under rental agreements. The Company retains title to the instruments under these arrangements. Revenue The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition , when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable, collection is reasonably assured and delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered. Additional considerations include whether the applicable fee arrangement contains future delivery or performance obligations that should be divided into separate accounting 7 units, whether the arrangement requires the Company to retain risks consistent with a collaborative arrangement, and/or whether any of the fees are contingent on the achievement of future milestones. Product revenue is derived from the sale or rental of our instruments and sales of related consumable products. When an instrument is sold, revenue is generally recognized upon installation of the unit consistent with contract terms, which do not include a right of return. When a consumable product is sold, revenue is generally recognized upon shipment. We also provide instruments to customers under bundled rental agreements. Under these agreements, we install the instrument in the customer's facility and provide service. The customer agrees to purchase consumable products at a stated price over the term of the agreement which is typically less than seven years. Contracts sometimes have renewal clauses but such clauses do not provide for a bargain renewal option or penalize the customer if they do not renew. The instrument remains the Company's property throughout the term of the agreement and there is no transfer of title upon expiration. Revenue is recognized as consumable products are shipped or delivered, depending on contract terms. For multiple element arrangements, the total consideration for an arrangement is allocated among the separate elements in the arrangement based on a selling price hierarchy. The selling price hierarchy for a deliverable is based on: (1) vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE"), if available; (2) third party evidence of selling price if VSOE is not available; or (3) an estimated selling price, if neither VSOE nor third party evidence is available. Estimated selling price is our best estimate of the selling price of an element in a transaction. The Company limits the amount of revenue recognized for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services or other future performance obligations. Leases The Company accounts for leases in accordance with ASC 840, Leases, which requires leases to be classified as either operating or capital leases. In general, the Company classifies leases as capital leases when there is either a transfer of ownership at the end of the lease term, the lease contains a bargain purchase option, the lease term is seventy-five percent or more of the estimated economic life of the leased property or the minimum lease payments are ninety percent or more of the fair value at lease inception. Other leases are classified as operating leases. Operating lease rent is recorded as an operating expense monthly. For capital leases, both an asset and liability are recorded at the inception of the lease based on the present value of lease payments. The asset is included with property and equipment on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease reported as a component of the individual costs and expenses as part of the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. For the liability, the amount due within the next year is recorded as capital lease obligations and the amount due in more than a year is recorded as long-term capital lease obligation on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Interest expense is recorded based on the implicit or explicit interest rate used in the lease and is included as non-operating interest expense on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Equity-Based Compensation The Company awards stock options and other equity-based instruments to its employees, directors and consultants. Compensation cost related to equity-based instruments is based on the fair value of the instrument on the grant date, and is recognized over the requisite service period on a straight-line basis over the vesting period for each tranche (an accelerated attribution method). For unvested consultant grants, the assumptions are updated at the end of each reporting period until the grant is vested. The Company estimates the fair value of stock option awards, including modifications of stock option awards, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model derives the fair value of stock options based on certain assumptions related to expected stock price volatility, expected option life, risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. Volatility: The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Company ' s stock price over the most recent period commensurate with the expected term of the stock option award. Expected term: The estimated expected term for employee awards is based on the calculation published by the SEC in SAB110 for use when there is not a sufficient history of employee exercise patterns. For consultant awards, the estimated expected term is the same as the life of the award. 8 Risk-free interest rate: The risk-free interest rate is based on published U.S. Treasury rates for a term commensurate with the expected term. Dividend yield: The dividend yield is estimated as zero as the Company has not paid dividends in the past and does not have any plans to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company implemented ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting on January 1, 2017. Pursuant to this guidance, we made a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis. For periods prior to the adoption of this ASU, the Company estimated the forfeiture rate of unvested awards based on the forfeitures in the previous twelve-month period. The rate was calculated separately for awards to the board of directors/executives and all other awards. Further information regarding this change is included in Note 14, Employee Equity-Based Compensation . The Company also has an employee stock purchase program whereby eligible employees can elect payroll deductions that are subsequently used to purchase common stock at a discounted price. There is no compensation recorded for this program as (i) the purchase discount does not exceed the issuance costs that would have been incurred to raise a significant amount of capital by a public offering, (ii) substantially all employees that meet limited employment qualifications may participate on an equitable basis, and (iii) the plan does not incorporate option features that would require compensation to be recorded. See Note 14, Employee Equity-Based Compensation for further information. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of raw materials, depreciation, direct labor and stock-based compensation expense, manufacturing overhead, facility costs and warranty costs. Warranty Instruments are typically sold with a 1 year limited warranty, while kits and accessories are typically sold with a 60 day limited warranty. Accordingly, a provision for the estimated cost of the limited warranty repair is recorded at the time revenue is recognized. Our estimated warranty provision is based on our estimate of future repair events and the related estimated cost of repairs. The Company periodically assesses the adequacy of the warranty reserve and adjusts the amount as necessary. The expense incurred for these provisions is included in cost of sales on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Shipping and Handling Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are included as a component of revenue. The corresponding expense incurred with third party carriers is included as a component of sales, general and administrative costs on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Foreign Currency Translation and Foreign Currency Transactions The Company follows ASC 830, Foreign Currency Matters , which provides guidance on foreign currency transactions and translation of financial statements. Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are included in the foreign currency translation adjustment, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The Company has assets and liabilities, primarily receivables and payables, which are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. These balance sheet items are subject to re-measurement, the impact of which is recorded in foreign currency exchange gain or loss, within the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. 9 NOTE 2. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In May 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Scope of Modification Accounting. This amendment clarifies when to account for a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award as a modification. Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions. It is effective prospectively for the annual period ending December 31, 2018 and interim periods within that annual period. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-08, Receivable-Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Topic 310-20) Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities. This amendment shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium. Specifically, the amendment requires premiums to be amortized to the earliest call date. The amendments do not require an accounting change for securities held at a discount; the discount continues to be amortized to maturity. The guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period. The amendments should be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. The update amends accounting guidance for intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory to require the recognition of income tax consequences when the transfer occurs. The update is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective approach should be applied. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the guidance on measuring credit losses on financial assets (including trade accounts receivable and available for sale debt securities) held at amortized cost. Currently, an "incurred loss" methodology is used for recognizing credit losses, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. The amendment requires assets valued at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected using an allowance for credit losses. Reversal of credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded in the current period net income. The amendment will be effective for us on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. We do not anticipate this guidance will have a significant impact on our financial statements and plan to adopt on the effective date. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). This replaces the existing standards relating to leases for both lessees and lessors. For lessees, the new standard requires most leases to be recorded on the balance sheet with expenses recognized much like the existing standard. For lessors, the new standard modifies the classification criteria and accounting for sales-type and direct financing leases and eliminates leveraged leases. For both lessees and lessors, the standard eliminates real estate-specific provisions, changes some of the presentation and disclosure requirements, and changes sale and leaseback criteria. The ASU is required for us on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently assessing the impact this will have on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. The standard's core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date resulting in a new effective date for us of January 1, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. FASB has issued several other ASU's which provide further guidance on Topic 606 and have the same effective date. The standard allows for either "full retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied to all of the periods presented, or "modified retrospective" adoption, meaning the standard is applied only to the most current period presented in the financial statements. We will implement ASU 2014-09 and all relevant subsequently issued ASU's 10 on Topic 606 concurrently on January 1, 2018, and are currently evaluating the transition method. We are carefully evaluating our existing revenue recognition practices to determine the extent to which our contracts in the scope of the guidance will be affected by the new requirements. The effects may include identifying performance obligations in existing arrangements, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. We will also establish practices to determine when a performance obligation has been satisfied, and recognize revenue in accordance with the new requirements. Given limited revenues have been recognized to date, we have not yet determined the effect of the standard. NOTE 3. FDA CLEARANCE On February 23, 2017, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") granted Accelerate's de novo request to market the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit for identification and antibiotic susceptibility testing of pathogens directly from positive blood culture samples. Due to various factors, the Company manufactured inventory in advance of regulatory approval (pre-launch inventory). On January 1, 2017, the regulatory review process had progressed to a point that objective and persuasive evidence of approval was sufficiently probable, and a future economic benefit existed. On January 1, 2017, the Company started capitalizing pre-launch inventory. Additional information regarding inventory is included in Item 1, Note 7, Inventory . Prior to January 1, 2017, all pre-launch inventory was not capitalized, because a future economic benefit could not be asserted. Costs associated with the Company's purchase of inventory were reported as research and development costs, or if the inventory was used in marketing evaluations, as sales, general and administrative costs on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. 11 NOTE 4. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The following tables represent the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis on the financial statements of the Company and the valuation approach applied to each class of financial instruments at June30, 2017 , and December31, 2016 . Money market funds are included in cash and cash equivalents on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Level 1 assets are priced using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets which include money market funds and U.S. Treasury securities as these specific assets are liquid. Level 2 available-for-sale securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding 12 market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. The Company uses inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from quoted market prices, independent pricing vendors, or other sources, to determine the ultimate fair value of these assets and liabilities. The Company uses such pricing data as the primary input to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment portfolio and has not made, during the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs. There were no transfers between levels during the six months ended June30, 2017 . NOTE 5. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable, including receivables from major customers. The Company's main financial institution for banking operations held 70% and 57% of the Company's cash and cash equivalents as of June30, 2017 , and December31, 2016 , respectively. NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS The following tables summarize the Company's available-for-sale investments at June30, 2017 , and December31, 2016 : The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company's available-for-sale securities at June30, 2017 , and December31, 2016 : 13 Proceeds from sales of marketable securities (including principal paydowns), for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $6.5 million and $500,000 , respectively, and for the for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $6.5 million and $1.0 million , respectively. The Company determines gains and losses of marketable securities based on specific identification of the securities sold. There were no gross realized gains or losses from sales of marketable securities for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 . No other-than-temporary impairments are recorded as no material investment had a fair value that remained less than its cost for more than twelve months as of June30, 2017 , and there have been no other indicators of impairment. The Company does not intend to sell investments and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell investments before recovering the amortized cost. Additional information regarding the fair value of our financial instruments is included in Note 4, Fair Value of Financial Instruments . NOTE 7. INVENTORY Inventory is stated at the lesser of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on the first-in-first-out method. The allocation of production overhead to inventory costs is based on normal production capacity. Abnormal amounts of idle facility expense and spoilage are expensed as incurred, and not included in overhead subject to capitalization. The Company maintains provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on management's estimates of forecasted demand and, where applicable, product expiration. The components of inventories were as follows (in thousands): 14 NOTE 8. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are recorded at cost and consisted of the following at June30, 2017 , and December31, 2016 . Depreciation expense (which includes amortization of capital lease assets) for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 was $540,000 and $605,000 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 was $1.0 million and $1.1 million , respectively. NOTE 9. LICENSE AGREEMENTS AND GRANTS National Institute of Health Grant In February 2015, the National Institute of Health awarded Denver Health and the Company a five -year, $5.0 million grant to develop a fast and reliable identification and categorical susceptibility test carbepenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae directly from whole blood. The cumulative sub-award amount is $818,000 , under which the Company has invoiced a total of $560,000 , which is recorded as an offset to research and development expenses. The amounts invoiced for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $0 and $50,000 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $3,000 and $59,000 , respectively. Arizona Commerce Authority In August 2012, the Company entered into a Grant Agreement (the "Grant Agreement") with the Arizona Commerce Authority, an agency of the State of Arizona (the "Authority"), pursuant to which the Authority provided certain state and county sponsored incentives for the Company to relocate its corporate headquarters to, and expand its business within, the State of Arizona (the "Project"). Pursuant to the Grant Agreement, the Authority agreed to provide a total grant in the amount of $1.0 million (the "Grant") for the use by the Company in the advancement of the Project. The Grant is payable out of an escrow account in four installments, upon the achievement of the following milestones: Milestone 1 Relocation of Company's operations and corporate headquarters to Arizona and creation of 15 Qualified Jobs (as defined below). Milestone 2 Creation of 30 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestone 1). Milestone 3 Creation of 40 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1 and 2). Milestone 4 Creation of 65 Qualified Jobs (including Qualified Jobs under Milestones 1, 2 and 3) and capital investment of at least $4.5 million . For purposes of the Grant Agreement, a "Qualified Job" is a job that is permanent, full-time, new to Arizona, and for which the Company pays average (across all Qualified Jobs identified by the Company in its discretion) annual wages of at least $63,000 and offers health insurance benefits and pays at least 65% of the premiums associated with 15 such benefits. The amount of each installment payment will be determined in accordance with a formula specified in the Grant Agreement. The Grant Agreement also contains other customary provisions, including representations, warranties and covenants of both parties. As of June30, 2017 , the Company has collected all of the $1.0 million in milestones. The full amount is recorded in current deferred revenue and income until the economic development provisions of the grant have been satisfied in full, as there are "claw-back" provisions which would require repayment of certain amounts received if employment levels are not sustained during the term of the arrangement. Once the "claw-back" provisions expire in January 2018, we will recognize the grant as an offset to expense. Further details are included in Note 10, Deferred Revenue and Income . Arizona R&D Refundable Tax Credit Program The Company received a "Certificate of Qualification" from the Authority, which allowed the Company a partial refund of research and development investments. The amounts incurred under this program are recorded as an offset to research and development expenses, and for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 were $0 and $1.2 million , respectively, and no amounts were incurred for three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. If the amount received for this program is later determined to be incorrect or invalid, the excess may need to be repaid. NOTE 10. DEFERRED REVENUE AND INCOME Deferred revenue consists of amounts received for products or services not yet delivered or earned. Deferred income consists of amounts received for commitments not yet fulfilled. If we anticipate that the revenue or income will not be earned within the following twelve months, the amount is reported as long-term deferred income. A summary of the balances as of June30, 2017 , and December31, 2016 , follows: We have received $1.0 million in milestone payments from the Authority under the Grant Agreement described in Note 9, License Agreements and Grants . As of June30, 2017 , no such payments have been recognized in income, and we do not anticipate recognizing such payments as income until the "claw-back" provisions under the Grant Agreement expire in January 2018. 16 NOTE 11. STOCK PURCHASE In April 2012, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Abeja Ventures, LLC pursuant to which the Company agreed, among other things, to issue a warrant to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. Further details of this agreement are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December31, 2016 , as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2017. As of December31, 2016 , there were warrants to purchase 415,871 shares unexercised. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 , warrants to purchase 370,307 shares were exercised at an exercise price of $2.00 per share. Proceeds from the exercise of such warrants totaling, $741,000 are recorded as common stock and contributed capital in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The remaining warrants to purchase 45,564 shares expired unexercised on June 26, 2017. NOTE 12. PUBLIC OFFERING On May9, 2017 , the Company published a prospectus supplement underwritten by J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, William Blair & Company, L.L.C., Piper Jaffray & Co. and BTIG, LLC ("Underwriters") offering 2.8 million shares of common stock with an option for the Underwriters to purchase up to 413,000 additional shares of common stock for a total of 3.2 million shares. The public offering price was $28.850 per share and underwriting discounts and commissions were $1.731 per share for net proceeds of $27.119 per share. The public offering was finalized and 2.8 million shares of common stock were delivered to the purchasers on or around May15, 2017 . The Underwriters partially exercised their option to purchase an additional 335,000 shares, with the sale closing on June14, 2017 , and the option as to the remaining shares expired June15, 2017 . Proceeds from the sales totaled $89.0 million less underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs of $5.8 million for net proceeds of $83.2 million . The net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and to fund our commercialization efforts. We may also use a portion of the net proceeds to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies, product candidates or other intellectual property, although we have no present commitments or agreements to do so. Accordingly, we will retain broad discretion over the use of these proceeds. NOTE 13. EARNINGS PER SHARE The financial statements show basic and diluted loss per share. The Company's net loss for the periods presented caused the inclusion of all outstanding warrants, restricted stock and options to purchase our common stock to be antidilutive. As of June30, 2017 , and December31, 2016 , there were common stock options, restricted stock units and warrants exercisable for 7,530,193 and 7,313,245 shares of common stock, respectively, which were not included in diluted loss per share as the effect was antidilutive. NOTE 14. EMPLOYEE EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION The following table summarizes option activity under all plans during the six -month period ending June30, 2017 : The table below summarizes the resulting weighted average inputs used to calculate the estimated fair value of options awarded during the periods shown below: 17 The following table shows summary information for outstanding options and options that are exercisable (vested) as of June30, 2017 : The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity during the six -month period ending June30, 2017 : The expense recognized on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss related to options is summarized below: 18 As of June30, 2017 , $183,000 and $27,000 of equity-based compensation expense was a component of capitalized inventory and property and equipment respectively. As of June30, 2017 , unrecognized equity-based compensation cost related to unvested stock options and unvested restricted stock units was $19.4 million and $258,000 respectively. This is expected to be recognized over the years 2017 through 2022 . As discussed in Note 1 , we implemented ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting on January 1, 2017. Pursuant to this guidance, we made a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur rather than on an estimated basis and, therefore, equity based compensation expense for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 has been calculated based on actual forfeitures in our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, rather than our previous approach which was net of estimated forfeitures. Share-based compensation expense for the three and six months ended June30, 2016 is recorded net of estimated forfeitures, which were based on historical forfeitures and adjusted to reflect changes in facts and circumstances, if any. This change was accounted for using the modified retrospective transition method. This election resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment which increased our accumulated deficit and additional paid-in capital by $655,000 for all outstanding awards as of January 1, 2017. We believe this election simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions. This new guidance requires that we record excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies related to the settlement of employee stock-based compensation to the income tax expense line item on our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The new guidance also states that previously unrecognized excess tax benefits should be recognized on a modified retrospective basis as of the beginning of the annual period of adoption. At January 1, 2017, we recorded approximately $1.5 million of additional deferred tax assets, which are fully offset by a valuation allowance. Accordingly, the adoption of ASU 2016-09 did not result in an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect of the tax benefit of the stock compensation. The new guidance also requires excess tax benefits to be classified as an operating activity in the statement of cash flows rather than as a financing activity. Additionally, ASU 2016-09 requires that the minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for share-based awards be classified as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows. Adoption of ASU 2016-09 did not result in any adjustments to prior period disclosures on the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. NOTE 15. INCOME TAXES For the six months ended June30, 2017 , the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $175,000 , which primarily related to a profitable foreign jurisdiction without any net operating loss carryforwards. The Company's tax expense for the six months ended June30, 2017 differs from the tax expense computed by applying the U.S. statutory tax rate to its year-to-date pre-tax loss of $30.5 million as no tax benefits were recorded for tax losses generated in the U.S. and other foreign jurisdictions. At June30, 2017 , the Company had deferred tax assets primarily related to U.S. federal and state tax loss carryforwards. The Company provided a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets as future realization of such assets is not more likely than not to occur. At June30, 2017 , the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $1.1 million . The Company is not currently under examination by taxing authorities and does not believe the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease over the next 12 months. 19 NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS Leases The Company has entered into lease agreements, lease amendments, and lease extensions the last of which expires in 2022. Total rent expense, including common area charges was $309,000 and $280,000 for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 was $625,000 and $540,000 , respectively. Future minimum lease payments under operating lease agreements are as follows: Clinical Trial Agreements The Company has entered into master agreements with clinical trial sites in which we typically pay a set amount for start-up costs and then pay for work performed. These agreements typically indemnify the clinical trial sites from any and all losses arising from third party claims as a result of the Company's negligence, willful misconduct or misrepresentation. The Company incurred clinical trial expense of $18,000 and $760,000 for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $27,000 and $1.4 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The expense incurred as part of the clinical trial is included in research and development on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Legal Matters On March 19, 2015, a putative securities class action lawsuit was filed against Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., Lawrence Mehren, and Steve Reichling, Rapp v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., U.S. District Court, District of Arizona, 2:2015-cv-00504. The complaint alleges that we violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5, by making false or misleading statements about our Accelerate Pheno system, formerly called the BACcel System. Plaintiff purports to bring the action on behalf of a class of persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between March 7, 2014, and February 17, 2015. On June 9, 2015, Julia Chang was appointed Lead Plaintiff of the purported class. On June 23, 2015, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint alleging violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5, by making false or misleading statements or omissions about our ID/AST System and by allegedly employing schemes to defraud. Plaintiff sought certification of the action as a class action, compensatory damages for the class in an unspecified amount, legal fees and costs, and such other relief as the court may order. Defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint on July 21, 2015. The Court granted the motion and dismissed the case with prejudice on January 28, 2016. On February 26, 2016, Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which challenges the dismissal of the amended complaint. Chang v. Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc., et al., No. 2:15-CV-00504-SPL (9th Cir. filed Feb. 26, 2016). The appeal has been fully briefed and is scheduled for argument in September 2017. 20 NOTE 17. SEGMENTS The Company operates as one operating segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who is the chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance. The Company's business operates in one operating segment because the Company's chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company's financial information and resources and assesses the performance of these resources on a consolidated basis. Since the Company operates in one operating segment, all required financial segment information can be found in the consolidated financial statements. NOTE 18. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In June 2016 , the Companyrecorded a net amount of $866,000 related to the recovery of short-swing profits under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.The Company recognized these related party proceeds as an increase to contributed capital on the condensed consolidated balance sheet. Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introductory Note Except as otherwise indicated by the context, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this "Form 10-Q") to the "Company," "Accelerate," "we," "us" or "our" are references to the combined business of Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. These forward-looking statements, which can be identified by the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," or "continue," or variations thereon or comparable terminology, include the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to the products and future economic performance of the Company. In addition, all statements other than statements of historical facts that address activities, events, or developments the Company expects, believes, or anticipates will or may occur in the future, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included herein are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that the Company will retain key management personnel, the Company will be successful in the commercialization of the Accelerate Pheno system, the Company will obtain sufficient capital to commercialize the Accelerate Pheno system and continue development of complementary products, the Company will be able to protect its intellectual property, the Company's ability to respond to technological change, that the Company will accurately anticipate market demand for the Company's products and that there will be no material adverse change in the Company's operations or business. Assumptions relating to the foregoing involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future economic, competitive and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in forward-looking statements will be realized. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and 21 contractual obligations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere herein. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below and elsewhere in this report, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business and related financing, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's future operating results may be affected by various trends and factors which are beyond the Company's control. These include, among other factors, general public perception of issues and solutions, and other uncertain business conditions that may affect the Company's business. The Company cautions the reader that a number of important factors discussed herein, and in other reports filed with the SEC including but not limited to the risks in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December31, 2016 , could affect the Company's actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Our MD&A is composed of the following sections: Overview, Changes in Results of Operations, Capital Resources and Liquidity and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest thousand unless otherwise indicated. Overview Accelerate Diagnostics, Inc. is an in vitro diagnostics company dedicated to providing solutions that improve patient outcomes and lower healthcare costs through the rapid diagnosis of serious infections. Microbiology laboratories are in need of new tools to address what the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention calls one of the most serious healthcare threats of our time, antibiotic resistance. A significant contributing factor to the rise of resistance is the overuse and misuse of antibiotics, which is exacerbated by a lack of timely diagnostic results. The delay of these results is often due to the reliance by microbiology laboratories on traditional culture-based tests that often take two to three days to complete. Our technology platform is built to address these challenges by delivering significantly faster and accurate testing of infectious pathogens in various patient sample types. Since 2004, we have focused our efforts on research into and the development of an innovative rapid diagnostic platform, the Accelerate Pheno system, intended for the rapid diagnosis of infectious pathogens. Our goal is to reduce the failure rate of initial antibiotic drug therapy by shortening lab turnaround time to hours rather than the two to three days now required to deliver identification and susceptibility results. The Accelerate Pheno system utilizes genotypic technology to identify, or "ID," infectious pathogens and phenotypic technology to conduct antibiotic susceptibility testing, or "AST," which determines whether live bacterial or fungal cells are resistant or susceptible to a particular antimicrobial agent. The Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit, provides ID and AST results for patients suspected of bacteremia or fungemia, both life-threatening conditions with high morbidity and mortality risk. The Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit is a highly multiplexed panel targeting over 80% of the routine and significant pathogens causing blood stream infections and over 90% of the antibiotics useful in treating those pathogens. On June 30, 2015, we declared our conformity to the European In Vitro Diagnostic Directive 98/79 EC and applied a CE Mark to the Accelerate Pheno system and the Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit for in vitro diagnostic use. On February 23, 2017, the FDA granted our de novo request to market our Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC Kit in the United States. The Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit includes 140 assays for both identification and susceptibility testing, of which 116 were cleared by the FDA and 24 assays are available in an RUO only mode of the software. Changes in Results of Operations: Three and six months ended June30, 2017 compared to three and six months ended June30, 2016 22 For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , total revenues increased due to sales of Accelerate Pheno systems and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kits. For the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , cost of sales and gross profit increased as a result of the Company capitalizing inventory in connection with the FDA granting Accelerate's de novo request to market the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit. Inventory without a cost basis was sold to customers during the three and six months ended June30, 2017 . This inventory was comprised of pre-launch inventory previously not capitalized, and expensed in a previous period. Cost of sales associated with this inventory during the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , would have been an additional $228,000 and $407,000 , respectively. Research and development expenses for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , decreased as compared to the same periods in the prior year as a result of clinical trial expenses not recurring in the current periods. Additionally, on January 1, 2017, the regulatory review process had progressed to a point that objective and persuasive evidence of approval was sufficiently probable, and a future economic benefit existed for the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit. As a result, the Company started capitalizing pre-launch inventory for the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit on January 1, 2017. Prior to January 1, 2017, all pre-launch inventory was not capitalized, because a future economic benefit couldn't be asserted. Pre-launch inventory not capitalized in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which included instruments and consumables charged to research and development were $76,000 and $1.6 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $151,000 and $3.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Research and development expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation of $1.2 million and $462,000 for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $1.9 million and $664,000 for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The increase in non-cash equity-based compensation was primarily driven by an increase in the number of employees and stock option grants. Sales, general and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , increased due to an increase in salaries and related expenses as we ramp up our sales and marketing operations globally. 23 Pre-launch inventory not capitalized in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which included instruments and consumables charged to sales, general and administrative expenses were $12,000 and $748,000 for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $29,000 and $1.3 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Sales, general and administrative expenses include non-cash equity-based compensation of $3.0 million and $1.8 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $5.5 million and $3.3 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The increase in non-cash equity-based compensation was primarily driven by an increase in the number of employees and stock option grants. For the three and six months end June30, 2017 , loss from operations decreased as a result of the Company capitalizing inventory in connection with the FDA granting Accelerate's de novo request to market the Accelerate Pheno system and Accelerate PhenoTest BC kit. Loss from operations include non-cash equity-based compensation of $4.2 million and $2.2 million for the three months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $7.5 million and $3.9 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. This loss and further losses are anticipated and was the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and commercialize the Company's products. Other non-operating income during the three and six months ended June30, 2017 , increased due to an increase in interest and dividends, which were offset by other components of other income. Due to net losses incurred, we have only recorded tax provisions related to tax liabilities generated by our foreign subsidiaries. Capital Resources and Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity has been from sales of shares of common stock. As of June30, 2017 , the Company had $135.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, an increase of $57.5 million from $77.8 million at December31, 2016 . The primary reason for the change in these assets was a public offering that occurred during the six months ended June30, 2017 . 24 The Company is subject to a Lease Agreement with Pima County of Arizona. The future minimum lease payments under the Lease Agreement are included in Item 1, Note 16, Commitments . As of June30, 2017 , management believes that current cash balances will be more than sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the next twelve months. The following summarizes selected items in the Company's consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended June30, 2017 , and 2016 : The net cash used in operating activities was $28.1 million and $28.1 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. These losses are the result of our continued investments in research and development, expanded laboratory and operational space, increased employee headcount and other factors as we develop and prepare to commercialize the Company's products. The net cash used in investing activities was $16.0 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 , and is primarily comprised of purchases of available-for-sales securities, offset by sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $55.2 million for the six months ended June30, 2016 , and is primarily comprised of purchases of available-for-sale investments, offset by sales and maturities of available-for-sale investments. The net cash provided by financing activities was $87.3 million for the six months ended June30, 2017 , and is primarily comprised of proceeds from a public offering. The net cash provided by financing activities was $259,000 for the six months ended June30, 2016 , and was primarily comprised of the recovery of short swing profits from related parties, offset by common stock issuance cost. Our primary use of capital has been for development and commercialization of the Accelerate Pheno system. We believe our capital requirements will continue to be met with our existing cash balance and those provided under grants, exercises of warrants and stock options and/or additional issuance of equity or debt securities. However, if capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional capital sooner than expected. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Additional issuances of equity or convertible debt securities will result in dilution to our current common stockholders. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of June30, 2017 .