Item 1. Financial Statements. 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party balances for transactions made with the Sponsors. Related-party balances recorded within "Prepaid and other current assets" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $1.0 million and $0.9 million as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. Related-party balances recorded within "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $3.6 million and $0.2 million as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party activities for transactions made with the Sponsors. Related party transactions recorded within "Operating revenues" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $1.3 million and $2.6 million for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, respectively, and $0.1 million for each of the three and six months ended June 28, 2015. Related party transactions recorded within "Operating costs and expenses" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $1.7 million and $3.1 million for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 , respectively, and $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 10 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) 11 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 12 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation The Partnership 8point3 Energy Partners LP (together with its subsidiaries, the "Partnership") is a limited partnership formed on March 10, 2015 under a master formation agreement by SunPower Corporation ("SunPower") and First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar" and, together with SunPower, the "Sponsors") to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation systems. The Partnership's initial public offering (the "IPO") was completed on June 24, 2015. 8point3 General Partner, LLC (the "General Partner"), the Partnership's general partner, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of 8point3 Holding Company, LLC ("Holdings"), an entity owned by SunPower and First Solar. As of May 31, 2016, 8point3 Energy Partners LP owned a controlling non-economic managing member interest in 8point3 Operating Company, LLC ("OpCo") and a 28.2% limited liability company interest in OpCo, and the Sponsors collectively owned a noncontrolling 71.8% limited liability company interest in OpCo. The following table provides an overview of the assets that comprise the Partnership's portfolio (the "Portfolio"): (1) For the Macy's California Project and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets (as defined below), commercial operation date ("COD") represents the first date on which all of the solar generation systems within each of the Macy's California Project and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, respectively, have achieved or are expected to achieve COD. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details on the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. For the Residential Portfolio, COD represents the first date on which all of the residential systems within the Residential Portfolio have achieved COD. 13 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (2) The megawatts ("MW") for the projects in which the Partnership owns less than a 100% interest or in which the Partnership is the lessor under any sale-leaseback financing are shown on a gross basis . (3) Remaining term of offtake agreement is measured from the later of May 31, 2016 or the COD of the applicable project. (4) Remaining term comprised of 2.6 years on a power purchase agreement ("PPA") with the City of Roseville, California, followed by a 25-year PPA with Pacific Gas and Electric Company ("PG&amp;E") starting in 2019. (5) The Kingbird Project is subject to two separate PPAs with member cities of the Southern California Public Power Authority. (6) Comprised of the approximately 5,900 solar installations located at homes in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont, that are held by SunPower Residential I, LLC (the "Residential Portfolio Project Entity") and has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 39 MW. (7) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of all of the residential leases, in each case measured from May 31, 2016. Basis of Presentation and Preparation The direct and indirect contributions of the IPO Project Entities (as defined below) by the Sponsors to OpCo in connection with the IPO resulted in a business combination for accounting purposes with the IPO SunPower Project Entities (as defined below) being considered the acquirer of the interests contributed by First Solar in the IPO First Solar Project Entities (as defined below). Therefore, the IPO SunPower Project Entities constitute the "Predecessor." As used herein, the term "IPO Project Entities" refers to: the IPO SunPower Project Entities, including: Solar Star California XXX, LLC and Solar Star California XXX (2), LLC (collectively, the "Macy's California Project Entities"), which hold the Macy's California Project (as defined in the glossary in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the "Glossary")); Solar Star California XIII, LLC (the "Quinto Project Entity"), which holds the Quinto Project (as defined in the Glossary); Solar Star California XXXI, LLC (the "RPU Project Entity"), which holds the RPU Project (as defined in the Glossary); Solar Star California XXXII, LLC (the "UC Davis Project Entity"), which holds the UC Davis Project (as defined in the Glossary); the Residential Portfolio Project Entity, which holds the Residential Portfolio Project (as defined in the Glossary); and the IPO First Solar Project Entities, including: Lost Hills Solar, LLC (the "Lost Hills Project Entity"), which holds the Lost Hills Project, and Blackwell Solar, LLC (the "Blackwell Project Entity"), which holds the Blackwell Project (the Lost Hills Project and the Blackwell Project, each defined in the Glossary, together constitute the "Lost Hills Blackwell Project"); Maryland Solar LLC (the "Maryland Solar Project Entity"), which holds the Maryland Solar Project (as defined in the Glossary); North Star Solar, LLC (the "North Star Project Entity"), which holds the North Star Project (as defined in the Glossary); and SG2 Imperial Valley, LLC (the "Solar Gen 2 Project Entity"), which holds the Solar Gen 2 Project (as defined in the Glossary). In connection with the IPO, SunPower contributed a nearly 100% interest in each of the IPO SunPower Project Entities to OpCo, subject, in the case of the Quinto Project, the RPU Project, the UC Davis Project and the Macy's California Project, to the tax equity investor's right to a varying portion of the cash flows from the projects. In connection with the IPO, First Solar directly contributed to OpCo a 100% interest in the Maryland Solar Project Entity and indirectly contributed to OpCo a 49% economic interest in each of the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the North Star Project and the Solar Gen 2 Project. On January 26, 2016, OpCo entered into a Purchase, Sale and Contribution Agreement (the "Kern Purchase Agreement") with SunPower pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project, as further described below in Note 2. Effective January 26, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of SunPower 14 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Commercial II Class B, LLC (the "Kern Class B Partnership") . Kern High School District Solar (2), LLC (the "Kern Project Entity") is an indirect subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership, and OpCo holds a controlling interes t in the Kern Class B Partner ship effective January 26, 2016. The P artnership has concluded that OpCo is the primary beneficiary of the Kern Class B Partnership as it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact its economic perfor mance and absorbs the majority of losses and has the right to receive benefits over the life of the project. Therefore , OpCo consolidates this less-than-wholly-owned entity. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details . On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "Kingbird Purchase Agreement") with First Solar and First Solar Asset Management, LLC, a wholly- owned subsidiary of First Solar ("Kingbird Seller"), to acquire an interest in the Kingbird Project, as further described below in Note 2. Effective March 31, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC from First Solar. FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC holds the class B limited liability company interests of Kingbird Solar, LLC. Kingbird Solar A, LLC and Kingbird Solar B, LLC (the "Kingbird Project Entities") are direct subsidiaries of Kingbird Solar, LLC, and OpCo holds a controlling interest in the Kingbird Solar, LLC effective March 31, 2016. The Partnership has concluded that OpCo is the primary beneficiary of Kingbird Solar, LLC as it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact its economic performance and absorbs the majority of losses and has the right to receive benefits over the life of the project. Therefore, OpCo consolidates this less-than-wholly-owned entity.Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Agreement (the "Hooper Purchase Agreement") with SunPower and SunPower AssetCo, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunPower, to acquire an interest in the Hooper Project, as further described below in Note 2. Effective April 1, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of SSCO III Class B Holdings, LLC (the "Hooper Class B Partnership"). Solar Star Colorado III, LLC (the "Hooper Project Entity") is an indirect subsidiary of the Hooper Class B Partnership , and OpCo holds a controlling interest in the Hooper Class B Partnership effective April 1, 2016. The Partnership has concluded that OpCo is the primary beneficiary of the Hooper Class B Partnership as it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact its economic performance and absorbs the majority of losses and has the right to receive benefits over the life of the project. Therefore, OpCo consolidates this less-than-wholly-owned entity. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. The Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), and include the accounts of the Partnership, and all of its subsidiaries, as appropriate under consolidation accounting guidelines. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from the audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates in which the Partnership has less than a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All significant inter-entity accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments (consisting of normal, recurring items) necessary to state fairly its financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the accounting policies previously disclosed in "Note 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the 2015 10-K. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year . Fiscal Years On June 24, 2015, in connection with the closing of the IPO, the Partnership amended the Partnership Agreement to include a change in the fiscal year to November 30. The second quarter of the Partnership's fiscal 2016 includes the period from March 1, 2016 to May 31, 2016, consistent with the Partnership's November 30 fiscal year end . The Predecessor had a 52-to-53 week fiscal year that ended on the Sunday closest to December 31. The corresponding second quarter of fiscal 2015 includes the Predecessor's period from March 30, 2015 to June 28, 2015 and is comprised of 13 weeks. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements cover the period from December 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016, representing the entire six-month period of the Partnership's first and second quarters of fiscal year 2016. The prior year's comparable six-month period covers the period from December 29, 2014 through June 28, 2015 and is reported on the basis of the previous fiscal year end of the Predecessor. As a result of the change in the Partnership's fiscal year end, the quarterly periods of its newly adopted fiscal year do not coincide with the historical quarterly periods previously reported by the Predecessor. Financial information for the three and six months ended May 31, 2015 has not been included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the following reasons: (i) the three and six months ended June 28, 2015 provide as meaningful a comparison to the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 as would the three and six months ended May 31, 2015; (ii) the Partnership believes that there are no significant 15 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued factors, seasonal or otherwise, that would impact the comparability of information if the results for the three and six months ended May 31, 2015 were presented in lieu of results for the three and six months ended Ju ne 28 , 2015; and (iii) it was not practicable or cost justified to prepare this information. Management Estimates The preparation of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the assumptions and methodology underlying the allocations of expenses incurred on the Predecessor's behalf that were recorded in the Predecessor's condensed carve-out financial statements, as well as: allowances for doubtful accounts related to accounts receivable and financing receivables; estimates for future cash flows and economic useful lives of property and equipment; the fair value and residual value of leased solar energy systems; fair value of financial instruments; fair value of acquired assets and liabilities; valuation of certain accrued liabilities such as accrued warranty and asset retirement obligation ("ARO"); and income taxes including the related valuation allowance. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued an update to the equity method investments guidance, which eliminates the requirement that an entity retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting if an investment qualifies for use of the equity method as a result of an increase in the level of ownership or degree of influence. The update requires that the equity method investor add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2017 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In February 2016, the FASB issued an update to the lease accounting guidance, which requires entities to begin recording assets and liabilities arising from substantially all leases on the balance sheet. The new guidance will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In November 2015, the FASB issued an update which requires entities that present a classified balance sheet to classify all deferred taxes as noncurrent assets or noncurrent liabilities. The new guidance is effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2017. Early adoption of this standard is permitted. The Partnership is evaluating the potential impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In May 2014, the FASB issued a new revenue recognition standard based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of this standard for all entities by one year. The new revenue recognition standard becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and is to be applied retrospectively using one of two prescribed methods. The Partnership is evaluating the application method and impact on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. Note 2. Business Combinations Acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that must be completed as of the acquisition date. The judgments made in the context of the purchase price allocation can materially impact the Partnership's future results of operations. 2016 Acquisitions 16 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued For the acquisition s completed during the six months ended May 31, 2016, the valuation is base d on the preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests as of the acquisition date, and is subject to change as the Partnership obtains additional information for its estimates during the respective measurement period. Kern Acquisition: On January 26, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in a solar energy project consisting of systems attached to fixed-tilt carports located at 27 school sites in the Kern High School District located in Kern County, California, and having an aggregate nameplate capacity of 20 MW (the "Kern Project") . OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project will be effectuated in three phases, with the closing of the first phase having occurred simultaneously with the execution of the Kern Purchase Agreement. The following describes the acquisition of each phase: (i) Phase 1(a): On January 26, 2016, 8point3 OpCo Holdings, LLC , a wholly owned subsidiary of OpCo, acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership . Prior to the date of the execution of the Kern Purchase Agreement and in connection with the closing of the tax equity financing for the Kern Project, described below, the Kern Project Entity, an indirect subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership, acquired the assets included in Phase 1(a) (the "Kern Phase 1(a) Assets"). The initial phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition". (ii) Phase 1(b): At a future closing date, which is expected to occur in the fiscal quarter ending August 31, 2016, the Kern Project Entity will acquire the Kern Phase 1(b) assets from SunPower. (iii) Phase 2: At a future closing date, which is expected to occur in the fiscal quarter ending November 30, 2016, the Kern Project Entity will acquire the Kern Phase 2 assets from SunPower. The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition is $35.0 million in cash, of which OpCo paid approximately $4.9 million on January 27, 2016 in connection with the closing of the first phase on January 26, 2016. OpCo will pay the remaining balance of the approximately $30.1 million purchase price at the closing of the second and third phases based upon the MW of the assets acquired in such phase. In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a quarterly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point is achieved. After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase. In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. The tax equity investor will make capital contributions to fund purchase price payments of $28.4 million, which will be made when the Kern Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K. The Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition qualifies as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets is as follows: Kingbird Acquisition: On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kingbird Purchase Agreement with First Solar, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in two 20 MW photovoltaic solar generating projects located in Kern County, California (together, the "Kingbird Project") for aggregate consideration of $60.0 million in cash (the "Kingbird Acquisition"). Consideration for the Kingbird 17 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Acquisition comprised a $42.9 million payment on the closing date of March 31, 2016 to Kingbird Seller and a $17.1 million contribution to FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC, the acquired company, on May 31, 2016 which was subsequently paid to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining balance due under the Kingbird Project's EPC contract. The closing of the Kingbird Acquisition occurred simultaneously with t he execution of the Kingbird Purchase Agreement and OpCo funded 100% of the payment for the Kingbird Project with a combination of cash on hand, drawings under OpCo's revolver and drawings under OpCo's delayed draw facility. Ownership and cash flows of the Kingbird Project are subject to a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kingbird Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a quarterly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point is achieved. After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase. In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. The tax equity investor made capital contributions to fund purchase price payments of approximately $11.7 million on February 26, 2016 and $46.8 million on May 31, 2016, which were made when the Kingbird Project's phases met certain construction milestones and were transferred to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining purchase price payments. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K. The Kingbird Acquisition qualifies as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Kingbird Project is as follows: (1) Related party payable represents liabilities for amounts due to an affiliate of First Solar related to the construction of the project and consisted of: (i) a $17.1 million contribution to FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC, the acquired company, by OpCo on May 31, 2016, which was subsequently paid by the acquired company and (ii) a $46.8 million payment made from the capital contribution by the tax equity investor on May 31, 2016. Hooper Acquisition : On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Hooper Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the 50 MW photovoltaic solar generating project located in Alamosa County, Colorado (the "Hooper Project") for aggregate consideration of $53.5 million in cash (the "Hooper Acquisition"). The Hooper Acquisition closed on April 1, 2016 and OpCo funded 100% of the purchase price for the Hooper Project with a combination of cash on hand, drawings under OpCo's revolver and drawings under OpCo's delayed draw facility. Ownership and cash flows of the Hooper Project are subject to a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Hooper Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a quarterly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point is achieved.After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase.In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K. The Hooper Acquisition qualifies as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Hooper Project is as follows: 18 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) Accounts receivable represent the fair value of the trade accounts receivable acquired, all of which are expected to be collected. (2) Accrued liabilities includes $0.3 million of cash distributions payable that was paid to the tax equity investor on April 30, 2016. (3) The net purchase price for the acquisition represents $53.5 million of cash paid by OpCo, offset by $0.4 million cash acquired in the Hooper Project Entity. Valuation methodology: The Partnership utilized the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to value property and equipment for the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project, and to value noncontrolling interests for the Hooper Project. Key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow method included forecasted pre-tax cash flows, forecasted taxable income and discount rates. All estimates, key assumptions and forecasts were reviewed by the Partnership and the fair value analyses and related valuations represent the conclusions of management. Supplementary Data: The results of operations for the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project have been included in the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations since their respective dates of acquisition. In both the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project contributed approximately $2.2 million to the Partnership's operating revenue and decreased net loss by approximately $1.0 million. 2015 Acquisitions For the acquisitions completed in fiscal 2015, the Partnership obtained valuations from a third-party valuation specialist. The valuations calculated from these estimates were based on information available at the acquisition date. Therefore, the Partnership's purchase price allocations are final and not subject to revision. On June 24, 2015, the Partnership acquired a 100% interest in the Maryland Solar Project Entity, and a 49% indirect interest in each of the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project and the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, each of which is described in more detail below. Maryland Solar The Maryland Solar Project, located in Maryland, is a fully operational 20 MW grid-connected system contracted to serve a 20-year PPA with FirstEnergy Solutions, a subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corp. Solar Gen 2 The Solar Gen 2 Project, located in California, is a fully operational 150 MW grid-connected system spanning three separate 50 MW sites. Electricity generated by the three separate systems is contracted to serve a 25-year PPA with San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company ("SDG&amp;E"), a subsidiary of Sempra Energy. 19 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued North Star The North Star Project, located in California, is a fully operational 60 MW grid-connected system contracted to serve a 20-year PPA with PG&amp;E, a subsidiary of PG&amp;E Corporation. Lost Hills Blackwell The Lost Hills Blackwell Project, located in California, is a fully operational 32 MW grid-connected system contracted to serve a 25-year PPA with PG&amp;E, a subsidiary of PG&amp;E Corporation, starting in 2019. The Lost Hills Blackwell Project is also contracted to serve a short-term PPA with the City of Roseville, California prior to the system's PPA with PG&amp;E. The purchase allocation for the acquired assets and liabilities of the above IPO First Solar Project Entities is as follows: The following unaudited pro forma supplementary data gives effect to the 2015 Acquisitions as if the transactions had occurred on December 30, 2013. The unaudited pro forma supplementary data is provided for informational purposes only and should not be construed as indicative of the Partnership's results of operations had the 2015 Acquisitions been consummated on the date assumed or of the Partnership's results of operations for any future date. Note 3. Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates The following table summarizes the activity of the Partnership's investments in its unconsolidated affiliates during the three and six months ended May 31, 2016: 20 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) The net income (loss) used to determine the Partnership's equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates reflects adjustments pursuant to the equity method of accounting, including the amortization of basis differences resulting from the Partnership's proportionate share of certain equity method investees' net assets exceeding their carrying values. The following table presents summarized financial information for SG2 Holdings, LLC ("SG2 Holdings") and NS Solar Holdings, LLC ("North Star Holdings"), significant investees, as derived from the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of SG2 Holdings and North Star Holdings for each of the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 30, 2015: Note 4. Balance Sheet Components Financing Receivables The Partnership's net investment in sales-type leases presented in "Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net" and "Long-term financing receivables, net" on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets is as follows: (1) Allowance for losses on financing receivables was $0.5 million and $0.3 million as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. (2) Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets includes other trade accounts receivable of $5.7 million and $1.9 million as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. 21 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Current and Non-current Assets (1) For the Quinto Project and Kingbird Project, the construction costs related to the network upgrade of a transmission grid belonging to a utility company are reimbursable by that utility company over five years from the date the project reached commercial operation. (2) Other current assets included $0.6 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.1 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.5 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of May 31, 2016. Similarly, other current assets included $0.9 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.2 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.7 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2015. (3) Construction-in-progress is comprised of project assets related to the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. Current and Non-current Liabilities 22 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) Related party payable on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets consists of (i) $3.4 million related to the purchase price payable by tax equity investors to SunPower for the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition as of May 31, 2016; and (ii) $0.2 million as of both May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015 for accounts payable to related parties associated with O&amp;M, AMA and MSA fees owed to the Sponsors. Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies Land Use Commitments The Partnership is a party to various agreements that provide for payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which projects under PPAs are located. The total minimum lease and easement commitments at May 31, 2016 under these land use agreements are as follows: Solar Energy System Performance Warranty Lease agreements require the Partnership to undertake a system output performance warranty. The Partnership has recorded in "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" amounts related to these system output performance warranties totaling $0.1 million and $0.2 million as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. The Partnership has also recorded in "Other current assets" amounts of $0.1 million and $0.2 million as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively, relating to anticipated performance warranty reimbursements from the O&amp;M provider. The following table summarizes accrued solar energy systems performance warranty activity for the each of three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 28, 2015: Asset Retirement Obligations ("ARO") The Partnership's AROs are based on estimated third-party costs associated with the decommissioning of the applicable project assets. These costs may increase or decrease in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications, inflation or other factors. Decommissioning activities generally are made over a period of time commencing at the end of the system's life. The following table summarizes ARO activity for each of the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 28, 2015: 23 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Partnership may be notified of possible claims or assessments. The Partnership will record a provision for these claims when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss, or a range of the potential loss, can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed regularly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information or events pertaining to a particular case. Although the Partnership may, from time to time, be involved in litigation and claims arising from its operations in the ordinary course of business, the Partnership is not a party to any litigation or governmental or other proceeding that the Partnership believes will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Environmental Contingencies The Partnership reviews its obligations as they relate to compliance with environmental laws, including site restoration and remediation. During each of the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 28, 2015, there were no known environmental contingencies that required the Partnership to recognize a liability. Note 6. Lease Agreements and Power Purchase Agreements Lease Agreements As of May 31, 2016, the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include approximately 5,900 residential lease agreements which have original terms of 20 years and are classified as either operating or sales-type leases. In addition, the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project has a lease term that will expire on December 31, 2019, and the lessee, who is an affiliate of First Solar, is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The following table presents the Partnership's minimum future rental receipts on operating leases (including the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project and the residential lease portfolio) placed in service as of May 31, 2016: (1) Minimum future rentals on operating leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. As of May 31, 2016, future maturities of net financing receivables for sales-type leases are as follows: 24 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) Minimum future rentals on sales-type leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. Power Purchase Agreements Under the terms of various PPAs, the Partnership's contracted counterparties may be obligated to take all or part of the output from the system at stipulated prices over defined periods. All PPAs are accounted for as operating leases, have no minimum lease payments and all of the rental income under these leases is recorded as revenue when the electricity is delivered. Note 7. Debt and Financing Obligations Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. OpCo borrowed $300.0 million under the term loan facility on June 5, 2015, which indebtedness will mature on the fifth anniversary of its issuance, at which point all amounts outstanding under the $525.0 million credit facility will become due and payable. There will be no principal amortization over the term of the credit facility. The discount and incremental debt issuance costs associated with these borrowings were $3.1 million, which included $1.7 million of debt issuance costs paid with a portion of the proceeds and $1.4 million related to a reclassification of capitalized issuance costs on the Predecessor's historical financial statements, and were reported as a direct deduction from the face amount of the note. The Partnership used the net proceeds of the term loan facility to pay distributions of $129.4 million to First Solar and $168.9 million to SunPower. On March 30, 2016, in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition, OpCo drew down $40.0 million from its revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from its delayed draw term loan facility. As of May 31, 2016, the full amount of the $300.0 million borrowed under the term loan facility, the full amount of the $25.0 million borrowed under the delayed draw term loan facility, $40.0 million borrowed under the revolving credit facility, and approximately $58.6 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. As of November 30, 2015, the full amount of the $300.0 million borrowed under the term loan facility and approximately $48.8 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. The remaining portion of the revolving credit facility was undrawn . OpCo's credit facility is collateralized by a pledge of the equity of OpCo and certain of its subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. Subject to certain conditions, the credit facility includes conditional borrowing capacity for incremental commitments to increase the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility by $250 million, with any increase in the revolving credit facility not to exceed $100.0 million. The term loan bears an interest rate of approximately 2.67 % and 2.41% per annum as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. OpCo has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the interest rate on the borrowings under the term loan facility. For more details, p lease read "-Note 8. Fair Value." The credit facility contains covenants, including among others, requiring the Partnership to maintain the following financial ratios beginning in the fiscal quarter ending August 31, 2015: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio of not more than (a) 7.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending August 31, 2015 through May 31, 2016, (b) 5.50 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending August 31, 2016 through May 31, 2017, and (c) 5.00 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of the Partnership or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt 25 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued and to make distributions on or redeem o r repurchase OpCo common units. As of May 31 , 2016, the Partnership was in compliance with the debt covenants. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended OpCo's credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement, (ii) to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. The following table summarizes the Partnership's long-term debt: Quinto Solar Project Financing In order to facilitate the construction of certain projects, the Predecessor obtained non-recourse project loans from third-party financial institutions. On October 17, 2014, the Predecessor, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, the Quinto Project Entity, entered into an approximately $377.0 million credit facility with Santander Bank, N.A., Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and Credit Agricole Corporate &amp; Investment Bank (the "Quinto Credit Facility") in connection with the construction of the Quinto Project. On June 24, 2015, in connection with the closing of the IPO and the concurrent transfer of the Quinto Project to OpCo, the Quinto Project Entity repaid the full amount outstanding under the Quinto Credit Facility and terminated the agreement early. Immediately before termination, there were outstanding borrowings of $224.3 million under the Quinto Credit Facility. Termination of the Quinto Credit Facility became effective upon full repayment by the Quinto Project Entity on June 24, 2015. The Quinto Project Entity paid a $0.6 million fee for early repayment of the Quinto Credit Facility. Residential Lease Financing The Predecessor entered into two financing arrangements under which leased solar energy systems were financed by two third-party investors. Under the terms of these financing arrangements, the investors provided upfront payments to the Predecessor, which the Predecessor recognized as a financing obligation that was reduced over the specified term of the arrangement as customer receivables and federal cash grants were received by the third-party investors. Non-cash interest expense was recognized on the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations using the effective interest rate method calculated at a rate of approximately 14%-15%. On January 30, 2015, the Predecessor entered into an agreement with the third-party investor for one of the residential lease financing arrangements that terminated such financing arrangement. In conjunction with the termination of the arrangement, the Predecessor paid $10.8 million to terminate the $10.1 million outstanding financing obligation. On January 23, 2015, the Predecessor entered into an agreement with the third-party investor for the other residential lease financing arrangement that allowed the Predecessor to repay the outstanding financing obligation and terminate the associated agreements on or before September 30, 2015. This repayment was exercised on May 4, 2015. The Predecessor paid $29.0 million to terminate the $21.1 million outstanding financing obligation and $1.9 million accrued financing fee. August 2011 Letter of Credit Facility with Deutsche Bank 26 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued In August 2011, the Predecessor's parent, SunPower, entered into a letter of credit facility agreement with Deutsche Bank, as administrative agent, and certain financial institutions. Payment of obligations under the letter of credit fac ility is guaranteed by the majority shareholder of SunPower, Total S.A. As of May 31 , 2016 and November 30, 2015 letters of credit issued and outstanding under the August 2011 letter of credit facility with Deutsche Bank which is available to SunPower for the Quinto Project and the RPU Project totaled $14.0 million and $30.7 million, respectively. The associated fees incurred for the letters of credit to Deutsche Bank were $0.1 million and $0.2 million during the three and six months ended May 31 , 2016 , res pectively, and $0.1 million during each of the three and six months ended June 28 , 2015, and were recognized as interest expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Pursuant to the Original Omnibus Agreement, SunPower as the S ponsor who contributed the Quinto Project cancelled one of its letter of credit facilities associated with the Quinto Project upon its achieving COD in November 2015. However, SunPower will continue to maintain the remain ing letters of credit under the cre dit facility in connection with certain reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project and will bear the associated fees until no later than November 2016. Since the RPU Project achieved COD in September 2015, SunPower as the Sponsor who contributed the RPU Project is in the process of terminating the related letters of credit, and the Partnership has issued the required letters of credit under its revolving credit facility. Note 8. Fair Value Fair value is estimated by applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement (observable inputs are the preferred basis of valuation): Level 1-Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2-Measurements are inputs that are observable for assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly, other than quoted prices included within Level 1. Level 3-Prices or valuations that require management inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. The first two levels in the hierarchy are considered observable inputs and the last is considered unobservable. Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following tables present the Partnership's assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis, categorized in accordance with the fair value hierarchy: Derivative financial instruments: On July 17, 2015, OpCo entered into interest swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding and forecasted future borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $240.0 million. Under the interest rate swap agreements, OpCo will pay a fixed swap rate of interest of 1.55% and the counterparties to the agreements will pay a floating interest rate based on three-month LIBOR at quarterly intervals through the maturity date of August 31, 2018. OpCo also has the right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and any quarterly fixed payment date thereafter with a minimum of five business days' notification. As of both May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, these interest rate swap agreements had not been designated as cash flow hedges. These interest rate swap agreements are reflected at fair value and have been presented in other current liabilities on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets since OpCo has the right to cancel the swap agreements within one year of the balance sheet date. During each of the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, the Partnership recorded a change in fair value of $0.3 million within other income in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. The primary inputs into the valuation of interest rate swaps are interest yield curves, interest rate volatility, and credit spreads. The Partnership's interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, since all significant inputs are corroborated by market observable data. There were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the period. 27 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The Predecessor entered into interest rate swap agreements, designated as cash flow hedges, in the fourth quarter of the year ended December 28, 2014 on the outstanding and forecasted future borrowings under the Quinto Credit Facility to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. These swap agreements allowed the Predecessor to effectively convert floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments periodically over the life of the agreements. These derivatives had a maturity of more than 12 months. The Predecessor assessed the effectiveness of these cash flow hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis. If it was determined that a derivative instrument was not highly effective or the transaction was no longer deemed probable of occurring, the Predecessor discontinued hedge accounting and recognized the ineffective portion in current period earnings. In March 2015, the Predecessor discontinued hedge accounting prospectively for its interest rate swap agreements under the Quinto Credit Facility, as it was no longer deemed probable that the hedge transactions will occur. However, because it remained possible that the forecasted hedge transactions would occur, previously recognized loss of $3.0 million on the interest rate swaps remained in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of March 29, 2015, and such loss was reclassified into earnings during the quarter ended June 28, 2015, the same period that the forecasted hedged transactions affect earnings or was otherwise deemed to be improbable of occurrence. During the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, $2.2 million and $5.4 million, respectively, related to the ineffective portion was recognized in earnings within other expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis Long-term debt and financing obligations: The estimated fair value of the Partnership's long-term debt was classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, and approximated its carrying value of $362.5 million and $297.2 million, respectively, as the term loan facility is a variable rate debt with the interest rate indexed to the market and reset on a frequent and short-term basis . Note 9. Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests represent the portion of net assets in consolidated subsidiaries that are not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Partnership. For accounting purposes, the holders of noncontrolling interests of the Partnership include the Sponsors, which are SunPower and First Solar, as described in Note 1, and third-party investors under the tax equity financing facilities . As of both May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, First Solar and SunPower had noncontrolling interests of 31.1% and 40.7%, respectively, in OpCo. In addition, certain subsidiaries of OpCo have entered into tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems. The Partnership, through OpCo, holds controlling interests in these less-than-wholly-owned entities and has therefore fully consolidated these entities. The Partnership accounts for the portion of net assets using the Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value ("HLBV") Method in the consolidated entities attributable to the investors as &quot;Redeemable noncontrolling interests&quot; and &quot;Noncontrolling interests&quot; in its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries that are redeemable at the option of the noncontrolling interest holder are classified as &quot;Redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries&quot; between liabilities and equity on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, redeemable noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors were $22.5 million and $89.7 million , respectively, and noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors were $72.0 million and $11.8 million , respectively. In addition, in connection with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition on January 26, 2016, the Kingbird Acquisition on March 31, 2016, and the Hooper Acquisition on April 1, 2016, OpCo acquired the noncontrolling interest balances totaling $0.9 million, $11.7 million and $23.7 million, respectively. Please read " - Note 2 -Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. During both the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received $47.2 million in contributions from third-party investors under the related facilities, of which $46.8 million was transferred to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining purchase price payment of the Kingbird Project. During the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo attributed $52.9 million and $87.8 million, respectively, in losses to the third-party investors primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During both the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, 28 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received $1.0 million in contributions from third-party investors under the related facilities and attributed $0.7 million in losses to the third-party investors primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo made distributions to third-party investors under the related facilities of $1.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively, compared to distributions of zero for both the three and six months ended June 28, 2015. The following table presents the noncontrolling interest balances by entity, reported in shareholders' equity in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of May 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015: Note 10. Shareholders' Equity On June 24, 2015, the Partnership completed its IPO by issuing 20,000,000 of its Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership to the public. As of May 31, 2016, the Partnership owned a 28.2% limited liability company interest in OpCo as well as a controlling noneconomic managing member interest in OpCo and the Sponsors collectively owned 51,000,000 Class B shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership, and together, having owned a noncontrolling 71.8% limited liability company interest in OpCo. As of May 31, 2016, the following shares of the Partnership were outstanding: Cash Distribution The Partnership is required to distribute its available cash (as defined in the Partnership Agreement) to the holders of Class A shares each quarter as described in "Note 12. Shareholders' Equity" of the 2015 10-K. On April 14, 2016 , the Partnership paid its first quarter distribution of $4.5 million to Class A shareholders for the period from December 1, 2015 to February 29, 2016. 29 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 11 . Net Income Per Share Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 attributable to Class A shareholders by the weighted average number of Class A shares outstanding for the applicable period. Diluted net income per share is computed using basic weighted average Class A shares outstanding plus, if dilutive, any potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period using the treasury-stock-type method. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement among the Partnership, the General Partner, OpCo, a wholly owned subsidiary of SunPower and a wholly owned subsidiary of First Solar, the Sponsors can tender OpCo common units and an equal number of such Sponsor's Class B shares for redemption, and the Partnership has the right to directly purchase the tendered units for, subject to the approval of its conflicts committee, cash or Class A shares. If Class B shares were converted into Class A shares, the net income attributable to Class A shares would proportionately increase, resulting in no change to net income per share for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016. In addition, there were no potentially dilutive securities (including any stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units) for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016. Accordingly, basic and diluted net income per share for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 was as follows: (1) Up to the amount of OpCo common units held by Sponsors 30 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 12. Related Parties Management Services Agreements Immediately prior to the completion of the IPO on June 24, 2015, the Partnership, together with the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings, entered into similar but separate Management Services Agreements (the "MSAs") with affiliates of each of the Sponsors (each, a "Service Provider"). Under the MSAs, the Service Providers will provide or arrange for the provision of certain administrative and management services for the Partnership and certain of its subsidiaries, including managing the Partnership's day-to-day affairs, in addition to those services that are provided under existing O&amp;M agreements and asset management agreements ("AMAs") between affiliates of the Sponsors and certain of the subsidiaries of the Partnership. In August 2015, the First Solar MSA and the SunPower MSA were amended to adjust the annual management fee payable to each respective Service Provider. In the case of the First Solar MSA, OpCo will initially pay an annual management fee of $0.6 million to the First Solar Service Provider. In the case of the SunPower MSA, OpCo will initially pay an annual management fee of $1.1 million to the SunPower Service Provider. These payments are subject to annual adjustments for inflation. Between December 1, 2015 and November 30, 2016, each Service Provider will have a one-time right to increase the management fee by an amount not to exceed 15%. Costs incurred for these services were $0.4 million and $0.8 million for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, respectively. Costs incurred for these services were $0.02 million in each of the three and six months ended June 28, 2015. Engineering, Procurement and Construction Agreements Various projects are designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to EPC agreements with affiliates of the Sponsors, which may include a 2- to 10-year system warranty against defects in materials, construction, fabrication and workmanship, and in some cases, may include a 25-year power and product warranty on certain modules. As of May 31, 2016, all of the projects contributed by the Sponsors on the date of the IPO have achieved COD. The Kern Phase 1(a) Assets are construction-in-progress and expected to achieve COD within the quarter ending August 31, 2016. SunPower as the EPC provider is required to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and pursuant to the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement, all the associated costs to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets are obligations of SunPower. Operations and Maintenance Agreements and Asset Management Agreements The Project Entities and certain other subsidiaries have entered into O&amp;M agreements and AMAs with affiliates of the Sponsors, as applicable (except where such persons are otherwise subject to O&amp;M agreements or AMAs with unaffiliated third parties). Under the terms of the O&amp;M agreements and the AMAs, such affiliates have agreed to provide a variety of operation, maintenance and asset management services, and certain performance warranties or availability guarantees, to the subsidiaries of the Partnership in exchange for annual fees, which are subject to certain adjustments. O&amp;M services to the leased solar energy systems, also known as executory costs, were allocated to the Predecessor by SunPower and disclosed as cost of operations-SunPower in the combined carve-out statement of operations of the Predecessor. Costs incurred for O&amp;M and AMA services were $1.3 million and $2.3 million for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, respectively, compared to $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, respectively . Original Omnibus Agreement In connection with the IPO, the Partnership entered into an omnibus agreement (the "Original Omnibus Agreement"), with its Sponsors, the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings, under which (i) each Sponsor was granted an exclusive right to perform certain services not otherwise covered by an O&amp;M agreement or an AMA on behalf of the IPO Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor, (ii) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that did not achieve commercial operation as of the closing of the IPO, the Sponsor who contributed such project will pay to OpCo all costs required to complete such project, as well as certain liquidated damages in the event such project fails to achieve operability pursuant to an agreed schedule, (iii) each Sponsor agreed to certain undertakings on the part of its affiliates who are members of the IPO Project Entities or who provide asset management, construction, operating and maintenance and other services to the IPO Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor, (iv) to the extent a Sponsor continues to post credit support on behalf of an IPO Project Entity after it has been contributed to OpCo, OpCo agreed to reimburse such Sponsor upon any demand or draw under such credit support, and the Sponsor agreed to maintain such support pursuant to the applicable underlying contractual or regulatory requirements, (v) each Sponsor agreed to indemnify OpCo for any costs it incurs with respect to certain tax- 31 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued related events and events in connection with tax equity financing arrangements, and (vi) the parties agreed to a mutual undertaking regarding confidentiality and use of names, trademarks, trade names and other insignias. In August 2015, the Original Omnibus Agreement was amended to provide that (i) with respect to each of the North Star Project and the Quinto Project, which were contributed to the Partnership by First Solar and SunPower, respectively, the Sponsors agreed to pay to OpCo the difference, if any, between the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of the Sponsor's project at the time of contribution and the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of such project at the commencement of commercial operation of such project; and (ii) SunPower agreed to indemnify OpCo for certain costs it may incur in connection with the termination of certain tax equity financing arrangements relating to the contributed residential lease portfolios, which occurred before the Partnership's IPO. During the three months ended February 29, 2016, the Partnership received a $10.0 million indemnity payment for a shortfall associated with the network upgrade refunds projected to be received. In November 2015, the Original Omnibus Agreement was amended to provide that the indemnity for energy produced prior to commercial operation owed by each Sponsor to OpCo will be calculated on an aggregate basis with respect to all projects contributed by such Sponsor in connection with the IPO, rather than on a project-by-project basis. As a result of this indemnity, the Partnership received $3.9 million as an indemnity payment from SunPower for a test energy shortfall associated with the Quinto Project. On January 26, 2016, in connection with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Original Omnibus Agreement was amended to update the schedules thereto to include the solar power systems held indirectly by the Kern Class B Partnership at the closing of the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition for all purposes, except for certain tax indemnities which are included in the Kern Purchase Agreement. On March 31, 2016, in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition, the Original Omnibus Agreement was amended (the "Kingbird Omnibus Amendment") to update the schedules to the parties' existing Original Omnibus Agreement to include the Kingbird Project for all purposes, except for certain tax indemnities which are included in the Kingbird Purchase Agreement. On April 1, 2016, in connection with the Hooper Acquisition, the Original Omnibus Agreement was amended (the "Hooper Omnibus Amendment") to update the schedules to the parties' existing Original Omnibus Agreement to include the Hooper Project for all purposes, except for certain tax indemnities which are included in the Hooper Purchase Agreement. On April 6, 2016, the Partnership amended and restated the Original Omnibus Agreement (as amended and restated, the "Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement") with its Sponsors, the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings (i) to expand each sponsor's tax equity indemnification obligations (as further discussed below), (ii) to provide that the sponsors' obligation to cover costs required to achieve commercial operation (as further discussed below) will be reduced to the extent OpCo and its affiliates receive alternate funds that are contemplated to be used to pay project expenses, and such funds are applied accordingly, and (iii) to integrate changes from prior amendments to the Original Omnibus Agreement, including the Kingbird Omnibus Amendment and the Hooper Omnibus Amendment. The material provisions of the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement are as follows: (a) each Sponsor was granted an exclusive right to perform certain services not otherwise covered by an O&amp;M agreement or an AMA on behalf of the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (b) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that has not achieved commercial operation, the Sponsor who contributed such project will pay to OpCo all costs required to complete such project, subject to certain exclusions; (c) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that did not achieve commercial operation as of the closing of the IPO, the Sponsor who contributed such project will pay to OpCo certain liquidated damages in the event such project fails to achieve operability pursuant to an agreed schedule; (d) with respect to the Quinto Project and the North Star Project, the Sponsor who contributed such project will pay to OpCo the difference, if any, between the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of such sponsor's project at the time of contribution and the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received given the actual amount of upgrade costs incurred in respect of such project; (e) certain undertakings on the part of each Sponsor's affiliates who act as a manager of any Project Entity or who provide asset management, construction, operating and maintenance and other services to the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (f) to the extent a Sponsor continues to post credit support on behalf of a Project Entity after it has been contributed to OpCo, OpCo agreed to reimburse such Sponsor upon any demand or draw under such credit support, and the Sponsor agreed to maintain such support pursuant to the applicable underlying contractual or regulatory requirements; (g) each Sponsor agreed to indemnify OpCo for any costs it incurs with respect to certain tax-related events and events in connection with tax equity financing arrangements; and (h) the parties agreed to a mutual undertaking regarding confidentiality and use of names, trademarks, trade names and other insignias. Upon the execution of the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement, the tax indemnities included in the Kern Purchase Agreement, the Kingbird Purchase Agreement and the Hooper Purchase Agreement automatically terminated. 32 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Promissory Note On November 25, 2015, OpCo, issued a Promissory Note to First Solar in the principal amount of $2.0 million (the "Note"), in exchange for First Solar's loan of such amount to OpCo. Upon the receipt of certain payments by the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity from SDG&amp;E under the power purchase agreement between the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity and SDG&amp;E, which had been previously withheld pending completion of an administrative requirement (each, a "Specified Payment"), OpCo is obligated to repay a portion of the principal amount of the Note equal to such Specified Payment and the unpaid balance of all interest accrued under the Note to and including the date of such repayment. Interest will accrue at a rate of 1% on the portion of the principal of the Note equal to the amount of each Specified Payment from the date SDG&amp;E remits such payment to the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity through the date that OpCo repays such amount to First Solar as described above. OpCo is permitted to prepay the Note at any time without penalty or premium. Purchase and Sale Agreements Prior to the closing of the IPO, each of (i) SSCA XIII Holding Company, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of OpCo and the holder of the Quinto Project Entity ("Quinto Holdings"), (ii) SSCA XXXI Holding Company, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of OpCo and the indirect holder of the RPU Project Entity ("RPU Holdings"), and (iii) SunPower Commercial Holding Company I, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of OpCo and the holder of the UC Davis Project Entity and the Macy's California Project Entities ("C&amp;I Holdings," and together with Quinto Holdings and RPU Holdings, the "SP Holding Companies"), entered into purchase and sale agreements (collectively, the "PSAs") with affiliates of SunPower in connection with SunPower's contribution of the SP Holding Companies to OpCo, and also entered into certain tax equity financing arrangements with third party investors to finance the purchases of the SP Holding Companies. Pursuant to the PSAs, the purchase prices were paid in installments, which were made when the projects met certain construction milestones, with final installment payments due upon COD. Since all of these projects have attained COD, there are no purchase price payments remaining. On January 26, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement with SunPower pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project, as further described above in Note 2. Effective January 26, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership. Pursuant to the Kern Purchase Agreement, the purchase price for the Kern Project will be paid by OpCo when each phase of the project reaches "mechanical completion." In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a specified distribution waterfall. Additional purchase price payments of $28.4 million will be funded by the tax equity investor's capital contributions, which will be made when the Kern Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kingbird Purchase Agreement with First Solar, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Kingbird Project, as further described above in Note 2. Effective March 31, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC from First Solar. FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC holds the class B limited liability company interests of Kingbird Solar, LLC. The Kingbird Project Entities are direct subsidiaries of Kingbird Solar, LLC, and OpCo holds a controlling interest in the Kingbird Solar, LLC effective March 31, 2016. Pursuant to the Kingbird Purchase Agreement, the $60.0 million purchase price due from OpCo to acquire an interest in the Kingbird Project was paid in installments with $42.9 million in cash paid to Kingbird Seller on March 31, 2016 and a $17.1 million contribution to FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC on May 31, 2016 which was subsequently paid to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining balance due under the Kingbird Project's EPC contract. In addition, Kingbird Solar, LLC entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kingbird Project pursuant to a specified distribution waterfall. The tax equity investor made capital contributions to fund purchase price payments of approximately $11.7 million on February 26, 2016 and $46.8 million on May 31, 2016, which were made when the Kingbird Project's phases met certain construction milestones and were transferred to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining purchase price payments. Since the Kingbird Project has attained COD as of May 31, 2016 there are no purchase price payments remaining. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Hooper Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Hooper Project, as further described above in Note 2. Effective April 1, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired 33 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Hooper Class B Partnership for a cash purchase price of $53.5 million. Since the Hooper Project attained COD prior to the acquisition da te there are no purchase price payments remaining. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. First Solar ROFO Agreement On March 28, 2016, OpCo entered into an Amendment and Waiver to Right of First Offer Agreement ("Waiver No. 1") with First Solar. Pursuant to Waiver No. 1, OpCo waived certain of its rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement, dated as of June 24, 2015, between OpCo and First Solar, and First Solar and OpCo agreed to amend certain provisions of the First Solar ROFO Agreement. Pursuant to the First Solar ROFO Agreement, First Solar previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 300 MW Stateline facility in San Bernardino County, California ("Stateline"). Pursuant to Waiver No. 1, OpCo waived its rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement with respect to 24% of the aggregate interest in Stateline. Concurrently, OpCo's rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement were expanded to cover First Solar's 100 MW Switch Station 1 and 79-MW Switch Station 2 facilities in Clark County, Nevada (collectively, "Switch Station"), which had not previously been subject to the First Solar ROFO Agreement. Additionally, OpCo and First Solar agreed to impose certain limitations on First Solar's right to offer projects to OpCo under the First Solar ROFO Agreement (each, a "ROFO Offer"). These limitations include commitments by First Solar (i) to not make ROFO Offers in respect of Switch Station or Stateline before February 1, 2017 and October 1, 2016, respectively, and (ii) during the period between October 1, 2016 and December 31, 2016, to limit all ROFO Offers in respect of Stateline to either (A) an offer for 50% of First Solar's remaining indirect interest or (B) an offer pursuant to which OpCo may elect to purchase either 50% or 100% of First Solar's remaining indirect interest. On June 28, 2016, OpCo entered into an Amendment and Waiver No. 2 to the First Solar ROFO Agreement ("Waiver No. 2") with First Solar. Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further details. Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement The Maryland Solar Project Entity has leased the Maryland Solar Project to an affiliate of First Solar. Under the arrangement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The lease agreement will expire on December 31, 2019. Operating Expense Allocations The Predecessor's condensed carve-out financial statements include allocations of certain SunPower operating expenses. The allocations include: (i) charges that were incurred by SunPower that were specifically identified as attributable to the Predecessor; and (ii) an allocation of applicable SunPower operating expenses based on the proportional level of effort attributable to the operation of the Predecessor's portfolio of solar energy systems leased to residential homeowners and projects under construction. These expenses include legal, accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, insurance, employee benefit costs, human resources, procurement and other corporate services and infrastructure costs. The allocation of applicable SunPower operating expenses was principally based on management's estimate of the proportional level of effort devoted by corporate resources. The amounts allocated to the Predecessor related to SunPower operating expenses were $3.0 million and $4.8 million for the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, respectively, and are disclosed as SG&amp;A expenses on the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Note 13. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal rate of 35% primarily due to the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, a permanent difference between the amount recognized as deductible for U.S. GAAP and tax purposes related to board of director share-based compensation, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. The Partnership's financial reporting year-end is November 30 while its tax year-end is December 31. The Partnership has elected to base the tax provision on the financial reporting year; therefore, since the 2016 financial reporting year is December 1, 2015 through November 30, 2016, the taxable income (loss) included in the 2016 tax provision is for the tax year ended December 31, 2015. The provision accrued at the financial reporting year-end will be a discrete period computation, and the tax credits and 34 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued permanent differences recognized in that accrual will be those generated between the tax year-end date and the financial reporting year-end date. Although organized as a limited partnership under state law, the Partnership elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Partnership is subject to U.S. federal income taxes at regular corporate rates on its net taxable income, and distributions it makes to holders of its Class A shares will be taxable as ordinary dividend income to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined on the basis of the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Partnership recognizes deferred tax assets to the extent that it believes these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, the Partnership considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. If the Partnership determines that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, it would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would reduce the provision for income taxes. The Partnership records uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740 - Income Taxes on the basis of a two-step process whereby (1) it determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position and (2) for those tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the Partnership recognizes the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Note 14. Segment Information The Partnership manages its Portfolio as one segment that operates a portfolio of solar energy generation systems. It operates as a single reportable segment based on the "management" approach. All operating revenues for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 28, 2015 were from customers located in the United States. Operating revenues from one customer, First Solar, as lessee of the Maryland Solar Project, accounted for 10% and 13% of total operating revenues for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, respectively, compared to zero in each of the three and six months ended June 28, 2015. Long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment, net, were located in the United States. Note 15. Subsequent Events The Partnership declared a second quarter distribution for its Class A shares of $0.2325 per share for the period from March 1, 2016 to May 31, 2016. The second quarter distribution will be paid on July 15, 2016 to shareholders of record as of July 5, 2016. On June 21, 2016, the Board of Directors of the General Partner, with the concurrence of the Conflicts Committee, determined that OpCo has met the tests in the OpCo's Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (the "OpCo LLC Agreement") to terminate OpCo's distribution forbearance period. As a result, starting with the quarter ending August 31, 2016, the OpCo units held by First Solar and SunPower will be entitled to distributions. On June 28, 2016, OpCo entered into Waiver No. 2 to the First Solar ROFO Agreement with First Solar. Pursuant to the First Solar ROFO Agreement, First Solar previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 250 MW Moapa solar generation project in Clark County, Nevada ("Moapa"). Pursuant to Waiver No. 2, OpCo waived its rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement with respect to Moapa. Concurrently, OpCo's rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement were expanded to cover First Solar's 130 MW California Flats and 150 MW California Flats facilities in Monterey County, California, which had not previously been subject to the First Solar ROFO Agreement. 35 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued On June 29, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Ag reement with SunPower and SunPower AssetCo, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunPower, to acquire an interest in the 5 MW project which holds roof-mounted solar photovoltaic systems being installed at certain Macy's department stores in Maryland ("Macy's Maryland Project") for $12.0 million in cash (the "Macy's Maryland Acquisition"). Ownership and cash flows of the Macy's Maryland Project are subject to a tax equity financing arrangement with a third-party investor . The Macy's Maryland Acquisition is expe cted to close on July 1, 2016 , subject to customary closing conditions, and OpCo expects to fund 100% of the purchase price for the Macy's Maryland Project with cash on hand. 36 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2015 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or forecasts of future events. Words such as "could," "will," "may," "assume," "forecast," "position," "predict," "strategy," "expect," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "project," "budget," "potential" or "continue" and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this report include our expectations of plans, strategies, objectives, growth and anticipated financial and operational performance. Forward-looking statements can be affected by assumptions used or by known or unknown risks or uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statements can be guaranteed. A forward-looking statement may include a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying the forward-looking statement. We believe that we have chosen these assumptions or bases in good faith and that they are reasonable. However, when considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this report and in our 2015 10-K. Those risk factors and other factors noted throughout this report and in the 2015 10-K could cause our actual results to differ materially from those disclosed in any forward-looking statement. You should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the risk factors included in this report and the 2015 10-K to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Please read "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in Part I, Item 1A. of the 2015 10-K. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements except as required by law. Overview Description of Partnership We are a growth-oriented limited partnership formed by First Solar and SunPower, our Sponsors, to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation projects. Our IPO was completed on June 24, 2015, by issuing 20,000,000 Class A shares representing limited partner interests to the public. As of May 31, 2016, we owned a 28.2% limited liability company interest in OpCo as well as a controlling non-economic managing member interest in OpCo and the Sponsors collectively owned 51,000,000 Class B shares in the Partnership, with SunPower and First Solar owning 28,883,075 and 22,116,925 Class B shares, respectively, and together owning a noncontrolling 71.8% limited liability company interest in OpCo. Because we consolidate OpCo, our financial results are shown on a 100% basis and are not adjusted to reflect our Sponsors' noncontrolling limited liability company interest in OpCo. We received $393.8 million of net proceeds from the sale of the Class A shares in the IPO after deducting the underwriting fees and structuring fees (but before offering expenses, which were paid by our Sponsors). We used all of the net proceeds of the IPO to purchase 20,000,000 OpCo common units from OpCo. OpCo used (i) approximately $154.4 million of such net proceeds to make a cash distribution to First Solar, (ii) approximately $201.6 million of such net proceeds to make a cash distribution to SunPower and (iii) approximately $37.8 million of such net proceeds for general purposes, including to fund future acquisition opportunities. Our Portfolio Our Portfolio, which we acquired from our Sponsors, consists of interests in 525 MW of solar energy projects. As of May 31 , 2016, we owned interests in eight utility-scale solar energy projects, all of which are operational. These assets represent 89% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. As of May 31, 2016, we owned interests in three commercial and industrial ("C&amp;I") solar energy projects, two of which were operational and one of which was in late-stage construction, and a portfolio of residential DG Solar assets, which represent 11% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. Our Portfolio is located entirely in the United States and consists of utility-scale and C&amp;I assets that sell substantially all of their output under long-term, fixed-price offtake agreements with investment grade offtake counterparties and residential DG Solar assets that are leased under long-term fixed-price offtake agreements with high credit quality residential customers with FICO scores averaging 765 at the time of the initial contract. As of May 31, 2016, the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 20.8 years. 37 The following table provides an overview of the assets that comprise our Portfolio: (1) For the Macy's California Project and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets (as defined below), commercial operation date ("COD") represents the first date on which all of the solar generation systems within each of the Macy's California Project and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, respectively, have achieved or are expected to achieve COD. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details on the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. For the Residential Portfolio, COD represents the first date on which all of the residential systems within the Residential Portfolio have achieved COD. (2) The megawatts ("MW") for the projects in which the Partnership owns less than a 100% interest or in which the Partnership is the lessor under any sale-leaseback financing are shown on a gross basis (3) Remaining term of offtake agreement is measured from the later of May 31, 2016 or the COD of the applicable project. (4) Remaining term comprised of 2.6 years on a power purchase agreement ("PPA") with the City of Roseville, California, followed by a 25-year PPA with Pacific Gas and Electric Company ("PG&amp;E") starting in 2019. (5) The Kingbird project is subject to two separate PPAs with member cities of the Southern California Public Power Authority. (6) Comprised of the approximately 5,900 solar installations located at homes in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont, that are held by SunPower Residential I, LLC (the "Residential Portfolio Project Entity") and has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 39 MW. (7) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of all of the residential leases, in each case measured from May 31, 2016. 2016 Acquisitions On January 26, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project for aggregate consideration of $35.0 million in cash. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kingbird Purchase Agreement with First Solar, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Kingbird Project for 38 aggregate consideration of $60.0 million in cash. On March 31 , 2016, OpCo entered into the Hooper Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Hooper Project for aggregate consideration of $53.5 milli on in cash. On June 29, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo will acquire an interest in the 5 MW project which holds roof-mounted solar photovoltaic systems being installed at certain Macy's department stores in Maryl and for $12.0 million in cash (the "Macy's Maryland Acquisition").The Macy's Maryland Acquisition is expected to close on July 1, 2016, subject to customary closing conditions.Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Conden sed Consolidated Financial Statements- Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further information on the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition, and "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further information on the Macy's Maryland Acquisition . For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K. How We Generate Revenues Our revenues are a function of the volume of electricity generated and sold by our projects and rental payments under lease agreements. The assets in our Portfolio sell substantially all of their output or are leased under long-term, fixed price offtake agreements with investment grade utility-scale and C&amp;I offtakers, as well as high credit quality residential customers with an average FICO score of 765 at the time of initial contract. As of May 31, 2016, the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 20.8 years, with the offtake agreements of our Utility Project Entities having remaining terms ranging from 16.8 to 27.6 years and our C&amp;I offtake agreements and residential offtake agreements having remaining terms ranging from 16.3 to 20.0 years . Under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each Utility Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements have certain availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, then in some cases the applicable project is required to pay the offtake counterparty a specified damages amount, and in some cases the offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement or reduce the contract quantity. In addition, under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 60 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any . Under the offtake agreements of our C&amp;I Project Entities, each C&amp;I Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Certain of our C&amp;I Project Entities' offtake agreements have availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, the offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement. Under our C&amp;I Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 30 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any . Under our Residential Portfolio Project Entity's offtake agreements, homeowners are obligated to make lease payments to the Residential Portfolio Project Entity on a monthly basis. The customer's monthly payment is fixed based on a calculation that takes into account expected solar energy generation, and certain of our current offtake agreements contain price escalators with an average of a 1% increase annually. Customers are eligible to purchase the leased solar power systems to facilitate the sale or transfer of their home. The agreements also include an early buy-out option at fair market value exercisable in the seventh year that allows customers to purchase the solar power system . How We Evaluate Our Operations Our management uses a variety of financial metrics to analyze our performance. The key financial metrics we evaluate are Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution. Adjusted EBITDA . We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax provision, depreciation, amortization and accretion, including our proportionate share of net interest expense, income taxes and depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method, and share-based 39 compensation; and excluding the effect of certain other non-cash or non-recurring items that we do not consider to be indicative of our on going operating performance such as, but not limited to, mark to market adjustments to the fair value of derivatives related to our interest rate hedges and transaction costs incurred for our acquisitions of projects. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP fin ancial measure. This measurement is not recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to U.S. GAAP measures of performance. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA is net income (loss) . The pre sentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of financial performance and borrowers' ability to service debt. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is used by our management for internal planning purposes including certain aspects of our consolidated operating budget and capital expenditures. It is also used by investors to assess the ability of our assets to generate sufficient cash flows to make distributions to our Class A shareholders. However, Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital, does not reflect significant interest expense or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our outstanding debt or cash distributions on tax equity, does not reflect payments made or future requirements for income taxes, and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss) or any other performance or liquidity measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of Adjusted EBITDA are not necessarily comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income (loss). Cash Available for Distribution. We use cash available for distribution, which we define as Adjusted EBITDA less equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, cash interest paid, cash income taxes paid, maintenance capital expenditures, cash distributions to noncontrolling interests and principal amortization of indebtedness plus cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates, test electricity generation and cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases. Our cash flow is generated from distributions we receive from OpCo each quarter. OpCo's cash flow is generated primarily from distributions from the Project Entities. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our Class A shareholders depends primarily on the ability of the Project Entities to make cash distributions to OpCo and the ability of OpCo to make cash distributions to its unitholders. We believe cash available for distribution is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of our ability to make our minimum quarterly distribution. In addition, cash available for distribution is used by our management team for determining future acquisitions and managing our growth. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available for distribution is net income (loss). However, cash available for distribution has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not capture the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the operating performance of our projects, does not include changes in operating assets and liabilities and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results from operations. Cash available for distribution is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss) or any other performance or liquidity measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of cash available for distribution are not necessarily comparable to cash available for distribution as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income (loss) . The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 28, 2015: 40 (1) Represents the non-cash allocation of the Predecessor's corporate overhead in selling, general and administrative expenses. (2) Represents acquisition-related financial advisory, legal and accounting fees associated with ROFO Project interests purchased and expected to be purchased by us in the future. (3) Represents the changes in fair value of interest rate swaps that were not designated as cash flow hedges . (4) Represents our proportionate share of net interest expense, income taxes and depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method . (5) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates represents the earnings from the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project and the Lost Hills Blackwell Project and is included on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations . (6) Represents cash interest payments related to our term loan and revolving credit facilities post-IPO. The interest payments for the Quinto Credit Facility on the Predecessor's combined carve-out financial statements were excluded as they were funded by one of our Sponsors . (7) Cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates represent the cash received by OpCo with respect to its 49% interest in the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project and the Lost Hills Blackwell Project . (8) State and local rebates represent cash received from state or local governments for owning certain solar energy systems. The receipt of state and local rebates is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue. (9) Cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases, net, represent gross rental cash receipts for sales-type leases, less sales-type revenue and lease interest income that is already reflected in net income (loss) during the period. The corresponding revenue for 41 such leases was recognized in the period in which such lease was placed in service, rather than in the period in which the rental p ayment was received, due to the characterization of these leases under U.S. GAAP . (10) Represents an indemnity payment from SunPower related to the shortfall in the reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project, which is owed to OpCo in accordance with the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information -Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12. Related Parties". (11) Test electricity generation represents the sale of electricity that was generated prior to COD by the Kingbird Project. Solar systems may begin generating electricity prior to COD as a result of the installation and interconnection of individual solar modules, which occurs over time during the construction and commission period. The sale of test electricity generation is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue prior to COD, even though it generates cash for the related Project Entity. Items Affecting the Comparability of Our Financial Results Our future results of operations will not be comparable to our historical results of operations for the reasons described below. Formation Transactions. At the closing of our IPO, we acquired the IPO First Solar Project Entities, which were not included in the results of the Predecessor. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial condition and results of operations of the IPO First Solar Project Entities since June 24, 2015, the date we completed our IPO. Results of operations of the Predecessor mainly relate to our Residential Portfolio, which represents less than 10% of the assets in our Portfolio. Prior to the IPO on June 24, 2015, none of the Predecessor's Utility and C&I Projects had commenced operation and the First Solar Projects were not included in the Predecessor's results of operations . Selling, General and Administrative Expense . The Predecessor's historical combined carve-out financial statements included SG&A expenses that have historically included direct charges for certain overhead and shared services expenses allocated by SunPower. Allocations for SG&A services included such items as information technology, legal, human resources and other financial and administrative services. These expenses were charged or allocated to the Predecessor based on management's estimate of proportional use. Under the Management Services Agreements, which were amended in August 2015, we pay annual fees of $1.7 million to our Sponsors for general and administrative services. These annual management fees are subject to annual adjustment to reflect the cost to provide SG&A services to us. In addition, our SG&A expenses also include the fees we pay to our Sponsors pursuant to AMAs . Accounting for Joint Ventures . The Predecessor's historical combined carve-out financial statements do not include equity in earnings from any minority-owned joint ventures. As of May 31, 2016, OpCo owned a 49% interest in the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project and the Lost Hills Blackwell Project; however, as these interests were previously owned by First Solar, they are not included in the Predecessor's combined carve-out financial statements.The results of operations of joint ventures in which OpCo owns a meaningful noncontrolling interest are not consolidated in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and instead are represented as earnings from equity investments . Financing. The Predecessor's historical combined carve-out financial statements reflect indebtedness for the Quinto Project, which was paid off in connection with the closing of our IPO, and two residential financing agreements with third-party investors, both of which have been terminated. On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million senior secured credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. As of November 30, 2015, the full amount of the $300.0 million term loan facility and approximately $48.8 million of letters of credit under our revolving credit facility were outstanding. We used the proceeds of the $300.0 million term loan facility to pay distributions to our Sponsors . On March 30, 2016, in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition, OpCo drew down $40.0 million from its revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from its delayed draw term loan facility. As of May 31, 2016, the full amount of the $300.0 million borrowed under the term loan facility, the full amount of the $25.0 million borrowed under the delayed draw term loan facility, $40.0 million borrowed under the revolving credit facility, and approximately $58.6 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. The remaining portion of the revolving credit facility was undrawn . Expiration of Section 1603 Cash Grant Program . The Predecessor's combined carve-out financial statements reflect the effect of the federal Section1603 cash grant program. This program has expired and we no longer benefit from these cash grants . Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement . The Maryland Solar Project Entity has leased the Maryland Solar Project to an affiliate of First Solar, with the lease term expiring on December 31, 2019. Under the arrangement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant . 42 Change in Fiscal Year. On June 24, 2015, in connection with the closing of the IPO, the Partnership amended the Partnership Agreement to include a change in the fiscal year to November 30. The second quarter of the Partnership's fiscal 2016 includes the period f rom March 1, 2016 to May 31, 2016, consistent with the Partnership's November 30 fiscal year end. The Predecessor had a 52-to-53 week fiscal year that ended on the Sunday closest to December 31. The corresponding second quarter of fiscal 2015 includes the Predecessor's period from March 30, 2015 to June 28, 2015 and is comprised of 13 wee ks. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements cover the period from December 1, 2015 to May 31, 2016, representing the first six-month period of the Partnership's fiscal year 2016. The prior year's comparable six-month period covers the period from December 29, 2014 through June 28, 2015 and is reported on the basis of the previous fiscal year end of the Partnership's Predecessor. As a result of the change in the Partnership's fiscal year end, the quarterly periods of its newly adopted fiscal year do not coincide with the historical quarterly periods previously reported by its Predecessor. Financial information for the three and six months ended May 31, 2015 has not been included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the following reasons: (i) the three and six months ended June 28, 2015 provide as meaningful a comparison to the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 as would the three and six months ended May 31, 2015; (ii) the Partnership believes that there are no significant factors, seasonal or otherwise, that would impact the comparability of information if the results for the three and six months ended May 31, 2015 were presented in lieu of results for the three and six months ended June 28, 2015; and (iii) it was not practicable or cost justified to prepare this information. Significant Factors and Trends Affecting Our Business The assets in our Portfolio sell substantially all of their output or are leased pursuant to long-term, fixed price offtake agreements. We believe these long-term agreements substantially mitigate volatility in our cash flows. Over time, our results of operations and our ability to grow our business could be impacted by a number of factors and trends that affect our industry generally, including the development of our ROFO Projects and the other projects we may acquire in the future . Increasing Demand for Solar Energy Global energy demand is increasing due to economic development and population growth. The U.S. Energy Information Administration projects OECD electricity generation to increase 34% between 2014 and 2040, requiring an increase in capacity of more than 600 GW of electricity generation, including through solar energy projects. With exposure to volatile fossil fuel costs, increasing concern about carbon emissions and a variety of other factors, customers are seeking alternatives to traditional sources of electricity generation. We expect the coal and nuclear energy segments will continue to face regulatory and economic headwinds. As a form of electricity generation that is not dependent on fossil fuels, does not produce greenhouse gas emissions and whose costs are falling, solar energy is well-positioned to continue to capture an increasing share of this new build capacity. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from this increased demand for solar energy . Government Incentives Our Sponsors benefit from certain U.S. government incentives designed to promote the development and use of solar energy. These incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, investment tax credits ("ITCs"), Renewable Portfolio Standards ("RPS") programs and net metering policies. These incentives make the development of solar energy projects more competitive by providing tax credits and accelerated depreciation for a portion of the development and construction costs, decreasing the costs associated with developing and building such projects. In addition, these incentives create demand for renewable energy assets through RPS programs and the reduction or removal of these incentives may diminish the market for future solar energy offtake agreements and reduce the ability for solar developers to compete for future solar energy offtake agreements. A loss or reduction in such incentives could decrease the attractiveness of solar energy projects to developers, including our Sponsors, which could reduce our acquisition opportunities. For example, the ITC, a federal income tax credit for 30% of eligible basis, is scheduled to fall to 26% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2020, 22% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2021, and 10% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2022 or thereafter or are placed into service on or after January 1, 2024. For more information about the risks associated with these government incentives, please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Government regulations providing incentives and subsidies for solar energy could change at any time and such changes may negatively impact our growth strategy" in the 2015 10-K . The projects in our Portfolio are generally unaffected by the trends discussed above, given that all of the electricity to be generated by our projects are sold under fixed-price offtake agreements, which, as of May 31, 2016, have a weighted average remaining life of approximately 20.8 years. In addition, our near-term growth strategy is also largely insulated from the trends discussed above. We expect that most of our short-term growth will come from opportunities to acquire the ROFO Projects, all of which will have executed power sale agreements . 43 Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related footnotes. In preparing these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, we have made our best estimates of certain amounts included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Application of accounting policies and estimates, however, involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. In arriving at our critical accounting estimates, factors we consider include how accurate the estimate or assumptions have been in the past, how much the estimate or assumptions have changed and how reasonably likely such change may have a material impact. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 1 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since November 30, 2015. Results of Operations Three and Six Months Ended May 31, 2016 Compared to Three and Six Months Ended June 28, 2015 Revenues 44 Operating revenues for both the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 28, 2015 were comprised of power purchase revenue from our utility-scale and C&amp;I assets and lease revenues from our solar energy system lease arrangements. All revenues for the period were generated in the United States in each of the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 28, 2015. Residential systems are leased under lease agreements which are classified for accounting purposes either as sales-type leases or operating leases. As all the leases owned by the Predecessor have been placed into service prior to fiscal 2015, all revenue related to the net present value of the minimum lease payments for sales-type leases has been recognized as of December 28, 2014. Accordingly, other than interest revenue, we had no sales-type lease revenue on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for each of the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 and June 28, 2015. For those residential leases classified as sales-type leases, the net present value of the minimum lease payments, net of executory costs, is recognized as revenue when the leased asset is placed in service. Executory costs represent estimated lease operation and maintenance costs, including insurance, to be paid by the lessor, including any profit thereon. This net present value is inclusive of certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates, described below, defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments. The difference between the net amount and the gross amount of a sales-type lease is amortized as revenue over the lease term using the interest method. Revenue from executory costs is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. For those residential leases classified as operating leases, revenue associated with renting the solar energy system and related executory costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. We do not record certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates. Previously, certain of these fixed and determinable state or local rebates, described below, defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments, were recorded as deferred revenue in the Predecessor's balance sheets when the lease was placed in service and amortized to revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. State or local rebates that are fixed and determinable are recognized when the related solar energy system is placed in service. State or local rebates that are not fixed and determinable, since they relate to the generation of electricity from the leased solar energy system, are recognized as revenue upon cash receipt for both sales-type leases and operating leases. Total revenues increased by $11.3 million, or 520%, during the three months ended May 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 28, 2015, and increased by $16.3 million, or 378%, during the six months ended May 31, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 28, 2015, due to the commencement of operations of the IPO Project Entities as of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and revenues generated from the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of Operations : Cost of operations primarily includes expenses related to O&M agreements and land lease expenses post IPO. The Predecessor's cost of operations additionally includes costs related to system output performance warranty and residential lease system repairs accrual and reserves for upfront rebate receivables. 45 The increase of $1.5 million, or 598 %, for the three months ended May 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 28, 2015 is primarily driven by: (i) increased expenses for O&M, electricity and property insurance associated with operating the solar power systems due to the commencem ent of operations of the IPO Project Entities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2016; and (ii) the reclassification of Quinto land lease expense from SG&A expense b y the Predecessor prior to IPO to cost of operations post- IPO . The increase of $0.7 million, or 31%, for the six months ended May 31, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 28, 2015 is primarily driven by increased expenses associated with operating the solar power systems due to the commencement of operations of the IPO Project Entities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. These increases were partially offset by the Predecessor's expenses during the first quarter of 2015 that were not recorded in 2016, relating to (i) a $1.3 million reserve for aged rebates receivable; (ii) a $0.5 million accrual for system output performance warranty and residential lease system repairs; and (iii) a $0.2 million accrual for a performance guarantee settlement . Cost of Operations-SunPower, prior to IPO : Cost of operations-SunPower, prior to IPO, represents executory costs that were allocated to the Predecessor by SunPower. Costs incurred for these services were zero for both the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 compared to $0.2 million and $0.5 million for the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative : SG&A expense includes (i) post-IPO operating expenses such as audit, legal, insurance, independent board of directors and fees under the AMAs and MSAs with our Sponsors; (ii) charges that were incurred by SunPower that were specifically identified as attributable to the Predecessor; and (iii) an allocation of SunPower operating expenses based on the proportional level of effort attributable to the operation of the Predecessor's portfolio of solar energy systems leased to residential homeowners and solar energy projects under construction. The allocated SunPower operating expenses include asset management, legal, accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, insurance, employee benefit costs, human resources, procurement, and other corporate services and infrastructure costs . The decrease of $2.9 million, or 63%, for the three months ended May 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 28, 2015 was due to high SG&amp;A expenses in the three months ended June 28, 2015 of $4.5 million primarily driven by the allocation of $3.8 million of costs incurred by SunPower related to our IPO, as well as $0.5 million of Quinto land lease expenses, while the SG&amp;A expense of $1.7 million for the three months ended May 31, 2016 was mainly comprised of normal operating expenditures including: (i) $0.8 million of fees associated with audit, consulting, legal, insurance and independent board of director services; (ii) $0.8 million of MSA and AMA fees; and (iii) $0.1 million of bad debt expense related to residential lease customers . The decrease of $4.5 million, or 58%, for the six months ended May 31, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 28, 2015 was due to high SG&amp;A expenses in the six months ended June 28, 2015 of $7.8 million primarily driven by the allocation of $6.3 million of costs incurred by SunPower related to our IPO, as well as $0.9 million of Quinto land lease expenses, while the SG&amp;A expense of $3.3 million for the six months ended May 31, 2016 was mainly comprised of normal operating expenditures including: (i) $1.6 million of fees associated with audit, consulting, legal, insurance and independent board of director services; (ii) $1.5 million of MSA and AMA fees; and (iii) $0.2 million of bad debt expense related to residential lease customers . Depreciation: Depreciation expense reflects costs associated with depreciation of our solar power system assets that have been placed in service. The increase of $4.6 million, or 620%, for the three months ended May 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended June 28, 2015, and the increase of $8.5 million, or 578%, for the six months ended May 31, 2016 as compared to the six months ended June 28, 2015, is a result of the commencement of operations of the IPO Project Entities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Acquisition-Related Transaction Costs: Acquisition-related transactions costs represent legal and consulting fees incurred in connection with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition in January 2016, the Kingbird Acquisition in March 2016 and the Hooper Acquisition in April 2016. 46 Other Expense , net Interest Expense: On June 5, 2015, we entered into a $525.0 million senior secured credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. We borrowed $300.0 million under the term loan facility on June 5, 2015 to pay distributions to our Sponsors. On March 30, 2016, we drew down $40.0 million from our revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from our delayed draw term loan facility to pay for the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition. Loans outstanding under the senior secured credit facility bear interest and the unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility bear commitment fees which are cash interest expenses. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 7- Debt and Financing Obligations" for rates. The debt discount and incremental debt issuance costs associated with these borrowings are non-cash interest expenses. The interest incurred related to our projects that are under construction is not reflected as an expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations as it is capitalized to construction-in-progress until the solar energy system is ready for its intended use. Cash interest expense in the first half of fiscal 2016 relates to the term loan facility, delayed draw term loan facility, revolver fees and letter of credit fees. Cash interest expense in the first half of fiscal 2015 relates to the term loan facility and letter of credit fees as well as financing fees due to two third-party investors for undrawn commitment of the financing arrangements described below. Non-cash interest expense in the first half of fiscal 2016 relates to debt issuance costs associated with our term loan facility, delayed draw term loan facility and revolver. Non-cash interest expense in the first half of fiscal 2015 relates to our term loan facility and two financing arrangements under which leased solar energy systems were financed by two third-party investors. The Predecessor terminated one residential lease financing obligation in January 2015 and the remaining obligation in May 2015. Under the terms of these financing arrangements, the investors provided upfront payments to the Predecessor, for which the Predecessor recognized as a financing obligation that was reduced over the specified term of the arrangement as customer receivables and federal cash grants were received by the third-party investors. Non-cash interest expense was recognized on the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations using the effective interest rate method calculated at a rate of approximately 14-15% during the first half of fiscal 2015. Interest expense for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 included non-cash interest expense of less than $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively, and cash interest expense of $3.0 million and $5.8 million, respectively. Interest expense for the three and six months ended June 28, 2015 included non-cash interest expense of $0.3 million and $1.2 million, respectively, and cash interest expense of $0.2 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Interest Income: Interest income was $0.3 million and $0.6 million for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, respectively. Interest income was $1.1 million in both the three and six months ended June 28, 2015. Interest income represents the accrued interest on reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project and the Kingbird Project. These costs plus accrued interest are reimbursable by the utility company over five years when the projects achieve commercial operation. Other Expense (Income): Other expense (income) in both the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 relates to an unrealized gain on interest rate swap associated with our term loan facility of $0.3 million further described below.Other expense (income) of $8.0 million and $11.9 million in the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, respectively, relates to a loss on cash flow hedges associated with the Predecessor as well as a loss on termination of financing obligations further described below. Gain on interest rate swap associated with term loan facility: On July 17, 2015, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to economically hedge the cash flows on our term loan facility. The changes in fair value are recorded in other expense (income), net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations as these hedges are not accounted for under hedge accounting. During 47 each of the three and six months ended May 31, 2 016, we recorded an unrealized gain of $0.3 million for the mark-to-market valuation adjustment o f interest rate swap agreements . Loss on cash flow hedges associated with Predecessor : The Predecessor entered into interest rate swap agreements, designated as cash flow hedges, in the fourth quarter of the year ended December 28, 2014 on borrowings in connection with the construction of the Quinto Project to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. The Predecessor assessed the effectiveness of these cash flow hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis. If it was determined that a derivative instrument was not highly effective or the transaction was no longer deemed probable of occurring, the Predecessor discontinued hedge accounting and recognized the ineffective portion in current period earnings. The hedge became ineffective in the quarter ended March 29, 2015, and the ineffective portion was recognized in earnings at that time. The interest swap was terminated upon the IPO and the remaining ineffective portion was recognized in earnings during the quarter ended June 28, 2015. During the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, $2.2 million and $5.4 million, respectively, was reclassified into loss on cash flow hedges within other expense (income), net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Loss on termination of financing obligation : On January 30, 2015, the Predecessor entered into an agreement with one of the residential lease financing third-party investors that terminated the financing obligation arrangement. In conjunction with the termination of the arrangement, the Predecessor paid $10.8 million to terminate the $10.1 million outstanding financing obligation. On May 4, 2015, the Predecessor entered into a termination agreement with the remaining third-party investor, paying $29.0 million to terminate the $21.1 million outstanding financing obligation. During the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, $5.8 million and $6.5 million, respectively, was recognized as a loss on termination within other expense (income), net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Income Tax Provision Our tax rate is primarily affected by the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. We included the income tax provision related to our equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees in the income tax provision line of the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Our income tax provision post IPO primarily represents deferred federal and state taxes on the net income of OpCo that is allocated to the Partnership (exclusive of income tax but after noncontrolling interest). The Predecessor's income tax provision, which was calculated on a separate return basis for the carve-out period, was due to minimum state income taxes. The increase in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the three months ended May 31, 2016 of 49.4% compared to 4.7% for the three months ended June 28, 2015 is the result of an increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates as well as income before income taxes for the three months ended May 31, 2016 of $1.5 million compared to losses before income taxes of $11.0 million for the three months ended June 28, 2015. The increase in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the six months ended May 31, 2016 of 49.6% compared to 2.5% for the six months ended June 28, 2015 is the result of an increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates as well as lower losses before income taxes for the six months ended May 31, 2016 of $2.4 million compared to losses before income taxes of $20.1 million for the six months ended June 28, 2015. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Investees 48 Equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees represents our proportionate share of the earnings and losses from SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings and Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings. We own a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings and Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings, and an affiliate of Southern Company, which is not affiliated with us, owns the other 51% ownership interest. The minority membership interests are accounted for as equity method investments. During the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, we recognized equity in earnings of $5.0 million and $5.4 million, respectively, which represented the entire three and six month periods in the first half fiscal year 2016. During both the three and six months ended June 28, 2015, we recognized equity in earnings of $0.2 million, which represented the four-day-period after IPO in the second quarter of fiscal year 2015. Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for the three and six months ended May 31, 2016 included a net loss of $52.9 million and $87.8 million, respectively, attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, partially offset by net income of $42.7 million and $65.3 million, respectively, attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests in both the three and six months ended June 28, 2015 included a net loss of $0.7 million, attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, partially offset by net income of $0.6 million attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. We apply the Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value ("HLBV") Method in allocating recorded net loss to each tax equity investor based on the change during the reporting period of the amount of net assets of the entity to which each tax equity investor would be entitled under the governing contractual arrangements in a liquidation scenario. Cash Flows Six Months Ended May 31, 2016 Compared to Six Months Ended June 28, 2015 A summary of the sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Operating Activities 49 Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended May 31, 2016 was $13.6 million and was pri marily the result of: (i) $7.7 million in cash distributions received from equity method investees that were classified in operating activities as returns on the investments ; (ii) adjustmen ts for n on-cash charges of $20.8 million, including $10.0 million depreciation of operating lease ass ets and solar energy systems, $10.2 million deferred income taxes expense, $0.1 million share-based compensation, $0.3 million amortization of debt issuance costs, and $0.2 million bad debt expense related to residential lease customers; and (iii) $1.0 million increase in accounts payable a nd other accrued liabilities. These inflows were partial ly offset by: (i) net loss of $7.2 million; (ii) adjustments for non-cash income of $5.7 million, including $5.4 million equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees and $0.3 million mark-to-market gain on interest rate swap; (iii) $2.4 million increase in accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net; (iv) $0.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets; and (iv) $0.1 million decrease in defer red revenue on operati ng leases . Net cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 28, 2015 was $9.3 million and was primarily the result of: (i) a net loss of $20.0 million; (ii) $3.6 million increase in prepaid and other current assets related to capitalized expenses incurred by the Predecessor for our IPO; and (iii) $0.5 million decrease in deferred revenue on operating leases. Net cash used was partially offset by: (i) net non-cash charges of $13.7 million, including $3.2 million mark-to-market loss on cash flow hedges, $6.5 million loss upon termination of residential financing arrangement, $1.5 million depreciation of operating lease assets, $1.3 million reserve for rebates receivable, and $1.2 million interest expense for the financing arrangement of residential leased solar energy systems prior to termination; and (ii) $1.3 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended May 31, 2016 was $115.6 million and was primarily the result of $118.0 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project. These outflows were partially offset by $1.2 million of cash distributions from unconsolidated investees classified in investing activities as returns of the investments, and $1.1 million of net cash provided by purchases of property and equipment, which primarily consists of collections of test energy billings. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 28, 2015 was $224.0 million related to costs incurred by the Predecessor associated with solar energy projects under construction. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended May 31, 2016 was $65.2 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $65.0 million proceeds from issuance of bank loans, net of issuance costs, including $40.0 million from the revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from the delayed draw term loan facility; (ii) $10.0 million in capital contributions from SunPower as an indemnity per the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement for a short-fall associated with reimbursable costs for the Quinto Project network upgrade; and (iii) $0.4 million of cash contributions from tax equity investors. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $8.8 million of cash distributions to our Class A members; and (ii) $1.3 million of cash distributions to tax equity investors. Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 28, 2015 was $271.2 million due to: (i) $393.8 million in proceeds from issuance of Class A shares, net of issuance costs; (ii) $461.2 million in proceeds from issuance of bank loans, net of issuance costs from our term loan facility as well as a financing arrangement for the Quinto Project; (iii) $337.8 million in capital contributions from SunPower to fund the SunPower Project Entities before the IPO; and (iv) $1.0 million in cash contributions from noncontrolling interests associated with our tax equity financing arrangements. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $371.5 million of cash distribution to SunPower as a Sponsor in connection with the IPO; (ii) $283.7 million of cash distribution to First Solar as a Sponsor in connection with the IPO; and (iii) $264.1 million repayment of bank loans to terminate two residential lease financing arrangements prior to the IPO and the Quinto Project at the IPO closing; and (vi) $3.2 million of capital distributions to SunPower made by the Predecessor before the IPO. Liquidity and Capital Resources SunPower provides treasury services on the General Partner's behalf under our MSA with an affiliate of SunPower. Our liquidity as of May 31, 2016 was $121.4 million consisting of $20.0 million cash on hand and $101.4 million of available capacity under our five-year revolving credit facility. Our liquidity position excludes up to $250.0 million in an accordion feature under our existing credit facility. 50 Sources of Liquidity We expect our ongoing sources of liquidity to include cash on hand, cash generated from operations (excluding cash distributions to minority investors), distributions and dividends from the operations of our equity investments, borrowings under new and existing financing arrangements (the aggregate amount of which may be lower because of our reduced ownership in projects subject to tax equity financing) and the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. We may also incur debt at the project level, which may be limited by the rights of our tax equity investors. We expect that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide for our short-term and long-term liquidity needs. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and other capital requirements, including capital expenditures, as well as make acquisitions, will depend on our future operating performance which, in turn, will be subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. We believe that we will have sufficient borrowings available under our revolving credit facility, liquid assets and cash flows from operations to meet our financial commitments, debt service obligations, contingencies and anticipated required capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Term Loan, Delayed Draw Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million senior secured credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. The delayed draw term loan facility was available to us during the 12-month period following the closing of our IPO. Subject to certain conditions, the credit facility includes conditional borrowing capacity for incremental commitments to increase the term loan facility and revolving credit facility by $250.0 million, with any increase in the revolving facility not to exceed $100.0 million. The proceeds of the term loan facility were used to pay fees and expenses, to repay existing indebtedness, to make a distribution to the Sponsors and for general purposes, including to fund acquisition opportunities, while the proceeds of the delayed draw term loan facility are expected to be used for acquisitions. Amounts available under the revolving facility are expected to be used for capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, to provide for ongoing working capital requirements, and for general corporate purposes, with letters of credit issued thereunder to be used for credit support and general corporate purposes. The credit facility will mature in June 2020, five years following the closing of our IPO. As of November 30, 2015, the full amount of the $300.0 million term loan facility and approximately $48.8 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. On March 30, 2016, in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition, OpCo drew down $40.0 million from its revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from its delayed draw term loan facility. As of May 31, 2016, the full amount of the $300.0 million term loan facility, the full amount of the $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility, $40.0 million of the revolving credit facility, and approximately $58.6 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. The remaining portion from the revolving credit facility was undrawn. In general, the credit facility contains representations, warranties, covenants (including financial covenants) and defaults that are customary for this type of financing; provided, however, that OpCo is permitted to pay distributions to its unitholders and we are permitted to pay distributions to our shareholders out of available cash so long as no default or event of default under the credit facility has occurred or is continuing at the time of such distribution, or would result therefrom, and OpCo is otherwise in compliance, on a pro forma basis, with the facility's covenants requiring it to maintain its debt to cash flow ratio and debt service coverage ratio (as such financial ratios are described below). Among other things, events of defaults that could result in restrictions on our ability to make such distributions include certain failures to make payments when due under the credit facility, certain defaults under other agreements, breaches of certain covenants and representations under the credit facility, commencement of certain insolvency proceedings, the existence of certain judgments or attachments, certain orders of dissolution of loan parties, certain events relating to employee benefit plans, the occurrence of a change of control (as more fully described below), certain events relating to the effectiveness and validity of the guaranties and collateral documents in support of the credit facility (as described below) and other credit documents and, under certain circumstances, the termination of the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement or the Quinto PPA. Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. In the future, we may increase our debt to fund our operations or future acquisitions. 51 OpCo's credit f acility is secured by a pledge over the equity of OpCo and certain of its domestic subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's domestic subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the cred it facility. OpCo's credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain the following financial ratios beginning in the fiscal quarter ending August 31, 2015: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not more than (a) 7.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending August 31, 2015 through May 31, 2016, (b) 5.50 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending August 31, 2016 through May 31, 2017, and (c) 5.00 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of us or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. As of May 31, 2016, we were in compliance with the debt covenants. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended OpCo's credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement, to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. Tax Equity Our projects are, and our future acquisitions are expected to be, subject to two types of tax equity financing. In the first type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. To the extent we want to incur project-level debt at a project in which we co-invest with a tax equity investor, we may be required to obtain the tax equity investor's consent prior to such incurrence. In addition, the amount of debt that could be incurred by an entity in which we have a tax equity co-investor may be further constrained because even if the tax equity investor consents to the incurrence of the debt at the entity or project level, the tax equity investor may not agree to pledge its interest in the project which could reduce the amount that can be borrowed and raise the cost of borrowing by the entity. In the second type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a majority interest in the project. In such agreements, we will only have a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. In most cases, since we are not the majority owner, we will not be able to direct the actions of the entity that owns such asset. As such, we may not be able to incur debt at the entity or project level, without the consent of the majority owner. Uses of Liquidity Our principal requirements for liquidity and capital resources, other than for operating our business, can generally be categorized into the following: (i) debt service obligations; (ii) funding acquisitions, if any; and (iii) cash distributions to shareholders. Generally, once COD is reached, solar power generation assets do not require significant capital expenditures to maintain operating performance. 52 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of May 31, 2016: (1) Land use commitments are related to a non-cancellable operating lease for the Quinto Project and two operating leases for the Kingbird Project, and are equal to the minimum lease and easement payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which solar energy systems are located. (2) Includes $300.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015 (in connection with our IPO) which will mature on or about the fifth anniversary of its issuance, at which point all amounts outstanding under the term loan facility will become due. From July 17, 2015 to August 31, 2018, which is the term of the interest rate swap, the interest payments are estimated based on the fixed swap interest rate of 1.55% plus the 2% margin for the notional amount of $240.0 million. The interest payments for the remaining $60.0 million notional amount through the maturity of the term loan, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 2.67% per annum effective as of May 31, 2016. (3) Includes $25.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and $40.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015 (in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition), which will mature on or about the fifth anniversary of the issuance of the term loan facility, at which point all amounts outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and the revolving credit facility will become due. The interest payments for the $65.0 million notional amount through the maturity date, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 2.67% per annum effective as of May 31, 2016. Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements As of May 31, 2016, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements. 53Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties, " and (c) First Solar's indirect interest in the Moapa facility , as further described in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to U naudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties"), (ii) First Solar's 100 MW Switch Station 1 and 79-MW Switch Station 2 facilities in Clark County, Nevada and (iii) First Solar's 130 MW California Flats and 150 MW California F lats facilities in Monterey County, California. "General Partner" or "our general partner" refers to 8point3 General Partner, LLC, our general partner, a limited liability company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings. "GW" refers to a gigawatt, or 1,000,000,000 watts. As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, all references to watts (e.g., MW or GW) refer to measurements of alternating current, except where otherwise noted. "Henrietta Project" refers to the solar energy project that is located in Kings County, California and is held by the Henrietta Project Entity. "Henrietta Project Entity" refers to Parrey, LLC. "Holdings" refers to 8point3 Holding Company, LLC, a limited liability company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware, which is jointly owned by First Solar and SunPower and is the parent of the General Partner. "Hooper Class B Partnership" refers to SSCO III Class B Holdings, LLC. "Hooper Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Alamosa County, Colorado, that is held by the Hooper Project Entity and has a nameplate capacity of 50 MW. "Hooper Project Entity" refers to Solar Star Colorado III, LLC. "IPO" refers to the Partnership's initial public offering of its Class A shares, which was completed on June 24, 2015. "IPO First Solar Project Entities" refers to the Lost Hills Project Entity, the Blackwell Project Entity, the Maryland Solar Project Entity, the North Star Project Entity and the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity and, with respect to certain of the foregoing, one or more of its direct or indirect holding companies. "IPO Project Entities" refers to, collectively, the IPO First Solar Project Entities and the IPO SunPower Project Entities. "IPO SunPower Project Entities" refers to the Macy's California Project Entities, the Quinto Project Entity, the RPU Project Entity, the UC Davis Project Entity and the Residential Portfolio Project Entity and, with respect to certain of the foregoing, one or more of its direct or indirect holding companies. "ITCs" refers to investment tax credits. "Kern Class B Partnership" refers to SunPower Commercial II Class B, LLC. "Kern Phase 1(a) Assets" refers to the assets comprising the first phase of the Kern Project, with a nameplate capacity of 3 MW. "Kern Phase 1(b) Assets" refers to the assets comprising the second phase of the Kern Project, with a nameplate capacity of 5 MW. "Kern Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Kern County, California, that is held by the Kern Project Entity and has a nameplate capacity of up to 21 MW. OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project will be effectuated in four phases, with the closing of the first phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of 3 MW, having occurred on January 26, 2016 and the closing of the second phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of 5 MW, having occurred on September 9, 2016. The initial phase of OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition" and the second phase of OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition". The closings of the third and fourth phases, reflecting an aggregate nameplate capacity of up to 13 MW, are expected to occur in the fiscal quarter ending February 28, 2017. 3 "Kern Project Entity" refers to Kern High School District Solar (2), LLC. "Kingbird Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Kern County, California, that is held by the Kingbird Project Entities and has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 40 MW. "Kingbird Project Entities" refers to, collectively, Kingbird Solar A, LLC and Kingbird Solar B, LLC. "Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings" refers to Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings, LLC. "Lost Hills Blackwell Project" refers to the solar energy project held collectively by the Lost Hills Project Entity and the Blackwell Project Entity that is comprised of the Lost Hills Project and the Blackwell Project and has a nameplate capacity of 32 MW. "Lost Hills Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Kern County, California, that is held by the Lost Hills Project Entity and that has a nameplate capacity of 20 MW. "Lost Hills Project Entity" refers to Lost Hills Solar, LLC. "Macy's California Project" refers to the solar energy project consisting of seven sites in Northern California that is held by the Macy's California Project Entities and has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 3 MW. "Macy's California Project Entities" refers to, collectively, Solar Star California XXX, LLC and Solar Star California XXX (2), LLC. "Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership" refers to SunPower Commercial III Class B, LLC. "Macy's Maryland Project" refers to the solar energy project which holds roof-mounted solar photovoltaic systems with an aggregate system size of approximately 5 MW, which is being installed at certain Macy's department stores in Maryland and is held by the Macy's Maryland Project Entity. "Macy's Maryland Project Entity" refers to Northstar Macys Maryland 2015, LLC. "Maryland Solar Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Washington County, Maryland, that is held by the Maryland Solar Project Entity and has a nameplate capacity of 20 MW. "Maryland Solar Project Entity" refers to Maryland Solar LLC. "MSAs" refers, collectively, to the First Solar MSA and the SunPower MSA. "MW" refers to a megawatt, or 1,000,000 watts. As used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, all references to watts (e.g., MW or GW) refer to measurements of alternating current, except where otherwise noted. "North Star Holdings" refers to NS Solar Holdings, LLC. "North Star Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Fresno County, California, that is held by the North Star Project Entity and has a nameplate capacity of 60 MW. "North Star Project Entity" refers to North Star Solar, LLC. "O&amp;M" refers to operations and maintenance services. "OECD" refers to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, the membership of which consists of: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom and United States. "offtake agreements" refers to PPAs, leases and other offtake agreements. 4 "offtake counterparties" refers to the customer under a PPA lease or other offtake agreement. "OpCo" refers to 8point3 Operating Company, LLC and its subsidiaries. "Original Omnibus Agreement" refers to the Omnibus Agreement, dated as of June 24, 2015, as amended, among the Partnership, OpCo, the General Partner, Holdings, First Solar and SunPower. The Original Omnibus Agreement has been superseded by the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties" for further details. "Partnership Agreement" refers to our partnership agreement. "PG&amp;E" refers to Pacific Gas and Electric Company. "Portfolio" refers to, collectively, our portfolio of solar energy projects as of August 31, 2016, which consists of the Hooper Project, the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project, the Maryland Solar Project, the North Star Project, the Quinto Project, the Solar Gen 2 Project, the RPU Project, the UC Davis Project and the Residential Portfolio. "PPA" refers to a power purchase agreement. "Predecessor" refers to the operation of the IPO SunPower Project Entities prior to the completion of the IPO. "Project Entities" refers to, collectively, the IPO First Solar Project Entities, the IPO SunPower Project Entities, the Kern Project Entity, the Kingbird Project Entities and the Hooper Project Entity. "Quinto Holdings" refers to SSCA XIII Holding Company, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of OpCo and the indirect holder of the Quinto Project Entity. "Quinto Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Merced County, California, that is held by the Quinto Project Entity and has a nameplate capacity of 108 MW. "Quinto Project Entity" refers to Solar Star California XIII, LLC. "Residential Portfolio" refers to the approximately 5,900 solar installations located at homes in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont, that is held by the Residential Portfolio Project Entity and has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 39 MW. "Residential Portfolio Project Entity" refers to SunPower Residential I, LLC. "ROFO Projects" refers to, collectively, the First Solar ROFO Projects and the SunPower ROFO Projects. "RPS" refers to renewable portfolio standards mandated by state law that require a regulated retail electric utility to procure a specified percentage of its total electricity delivered to retail customers in the state from eligible renewable energy resources, such as solar energy projects, by a specified date. "RPU Holdings" refers to SSCA XXXI Holding Company, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of OpCo and the holder of the RPU Project Entity. "RPU Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Riverside, California, that is held by the RPU Project Entity and has a nameplate capacity of 7 MW. "RPU Project Entity" refers to Solar Star California XXXI, LLC. "SDG&amp;E" refers to San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company. "SG&amp;A" refers to selling, general and administrative services. 5 "SG2 Holdings" refers to SG2 Holdings, LLC. "Solar Gen 2 Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Imperial County, California, that is held by the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity and has a nameplate capacity of 150 MW. "Solar Gen 2 Project Entity" refers to SG2 Imperial Valley, LLC. "SP Holding Companies" refers, collectively, to Quinto Holdings, RPU Holdings and C&amp;I Holdings. "Sponsors" refers, collectively, to First Solar and SunPower. "SunPower" refers to SunPower Corporation, a corporation formed under the laws of the State of Delaware, in its individual capacity or to SunPower Corporation and its subsidiaries, as the context requires. Unless otherwise specifically noted, references to SunPower and its subsidiaries exclude us, the General Partner, Holdings and our subsidiaries, including OpCo. "SunPower Capital" refers to SunPower Capital Services, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of SunPower. "SunPower MSA" refers to the Management Services Agreement, dated as of June 24, 2015, as amended, among the Partnership, OpCo, the General Partner and SunPower Capital. "SunPower ROFO Agreement" refers to the Right of First Offer Agreement, dated as of June 24, 2015, by and between OpCo and SunPower. On September 30, 2016, OpCo and SunPower entered into an amendment and waiver to the SunPower ROFO Agreement. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further details. "SunPower ROFO Projects" refers to, collectively, (i) the projects set forth in the chart in Part I, Item 1 of the 2015 10-K, under the heading "Business-Our Portfolio-ROFO Projects" with SunPower listed as the Developing Sponsor and as to which we have a right of first offer under the SunPower ROFO Agreement should SunPower decide to sell them (but excluding (a) the Hooper Project, which we acquired on April 1, 2016, as further described in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions," (b) the Macy's Maryland Project, which we acquired on July 1, 2016, as further described in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions," (c) the Kern Project, which we entered into an agreement to acquire on January 26, 2016 and which we acquired the Phase 1(a) Assets on January 26, 2016 and the Phase 1(b) Assets on September 9, 2016 and expect to acquire the Phase 2 assets in the fiscal quarter ending February 28, 2017, as further described in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" and in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 15-Subsequent Events," (d) the Henrietta Project, which we entered into an agreement to acquire on September 20, 2016 and which we acquired on September 29, 2016, as further described in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 15-Subsequent Events," (e) SunPower's interest in the Stanford facility , as further described in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 15-Subsequent Events," and (f) SunPower's interest in the IPT Solar Gen facility , as further described in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 15-Subsequent Events"), (ii) SunPower's Boulder Solar 1 facility in Clark County, Nevada and (iii) SunPower's Commercial Portfolio #3 located in various U.S. states. "UC Davis Project" refers to the solar energy project located in Solano County, California, that is held by the UC Davis Project Entity and has a nameplate capacity of 13 MW. "UC Davis Project Entity" refers to Solar Star California XXXII, LLC. "U.S. GAAP" refers to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. "Utility Project Entities" refers to the Hooper Project Entity, the Kingbird Project Entities, the Lost Hills Project Entity, the Blackwell Project Entity, the Maryland Solar Project Entity, the North Star Project Entity, the Quinto Project Entity, the RPU Project Entity and the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity. 6 PART I-FINANCI AL INFORMATION Item 1. Financial Statements. 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party balances for transactions made with the Sponsors. Related-party balances recorded within "Prepaid and other current assets" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $1.1 million and $0.9 million as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. Related-party balances recorded within "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $17.6 million and $0.2 million as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party activities for transactions made with the Sponsors. Related party transactions recorded within "Operating revenues" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $1.3million and $3.9 million for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, respectively, and $1.0 million for the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015. Related party transactions recorded within "Operating costs and expenses" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $1.9 million and $5.0 million for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 , respectively, and $0.4 million and $0.8 million for the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 10 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 11 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation The Partnership 8point3 Energy Partners LP (together with its subsidiaries, the "Partnership") is a limited partnership formed on March 10, 2015 under a master formation agreement by SunPower Corporation ("SunPower") and First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar" and, together with SunPower, the "Sponsors") to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation systems. The Partnership's initial public offering (the "IPO") was completed on June 24, 2015. 8point3 General Partner, LLC (the "General Partner"), the Partnership's general partner, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of 8point3 Holding Company, LLC ("Holdings"), an entity owned by SunPower and First Solar. As of August 31, 2016, 8point3 Energy Partners LP owned a controlling non-economic managing member interest in 8point3 Operating Company, LLC ("OpCo") and a 28.2% limited liability company interest in OpCo, and the Sponsors collectively owned a noncontrolling 71.8% limited liability company interest in OpCo. The following table provides an overview of the assets that comprise the Partnership's portfolio (the "Portfolio") as of August31, 2016: (1) For the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets (as defined below), commercial operation date ("COD") represents the first date on which all of the solar generation systems within each of the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, respectively, have achieved or are expected to achieve COD. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details on the 12 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and the Macy's Maryland Project. For the Residential Portfolio, COD represents the first date on which all of the residential systems within the Residential Portfolio have achieved COD. (2) The megawatts ("MW") for the projects in which the Partnership owns less than a 100% interest or in which the Partnership is the lessor under any sale-leaseback financing are shown on a gross basis. (3) Remaining term of offtake agreement is measured from the later of August 31, 2016 or the COD of the applicable project. (4) Remaining term comprised of 2.3 years on a power purchase agreement ("PPA") with the City of Roseville, California, followed by a 25-year PPA with Pacific Gas and Electric Company ("PG&amp;E") starting in 2019. (5) The Kingbird Project is subject to two separate PPAs with member cities of the Southern California Public Power Authority. (6) Comprised of the approximately 5,900 solar installations located at homes in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont, that are held by SunPower Residential I, LLC (the "Residential Portfolio Project Entity") and has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 39 MW. (7) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of all of the residential leases, in each case measured from August 31, 2016. Basis of Presentation and Preparation The direct and indirect contributions of the IPO Project Entities (as defined below) by the Sponsors to OpCo in connection with the IPO resulted in a business combination for accounting purposes with the IPO SunPower Project Entities (as defined below) being considered the acquirer of the interests contributed by First Solar in the IPO First Solar Project Entities (as defined below). Therefore, the IPO SunPower Project Entities constitute the "Predecessor." As used herein, the term "IPO Project Entities" refers to: the IPO SunPower Project Entities, including: Solar Star California XXX, LLC and Solar Star California XXX (2), LLC (collectively, the "Macy's California Project Entities"), which hold the Macy's California Project (as defined in the glossary in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the "Glossary")); Solar Star California XIII, LLC (the "Quinto Project Entity"), which holds the Quinto Project (as defined in the Glossary); Solar Star California XXXI, LLC (the "RPU Project Entity"), which holds the RPU Project (as defined in the Glossary); Solar Star California XXXII, LLC (the "UC Davis Project Entity"), which holds the UC Davis Project (as defined in the Glossary); and the Residential Portfolio Project Entity, which holds the Residential Portfolio Project (as defined in the Glossary); and the IPO First Solar Project Entities, including: Lost Hills Solar, LLC (the "Lost Hills Project Entity"), which holds the Lost Hills Project, and Blackwell Solar, LLC (the "Blackwell Project Entity"), which holds the Blackwell Project (the Lost Hills Project and the Blackwell Project, each defined in the Glossary, together constitute the "Lost Hills Blackwell Project"); Maryland Solar LLC (the "Maryland Solar Project Entity"), which holds the Maryland Solar Project (as defined in the Glossary); North Star Solar, LLC (the "North Star Project Entity"), which holds the North Star Project (as defined in the Glossary); and SG2 Imperial Valley, LLC (the "Solar Gen 2 Project Entity"), which holds the Solar Gen 2 Project (as defined in the Glossary). In connection with the IPO, SunPower contributed a nearly 100% interest in each of the IPO SunPower Project Entities to OpCo, subject, in the case of the Quinto Project, the RPU Project, the UC Davis Project and the Macy's California Project, to the tax equity investor's right to a varying portion of the cash flows from the projects. In connection with the IPO, First Solar directly contributed to OpCo a 100% interest in the Maryland Solar Project Entity and indirectly contributed to OpCo a 49% economic interest in each of the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the North Star Project and the Solar Gen 2 Project. 13 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued On January 26, 2016, OpCo entered into a Purchase, Sale and Contribution Agreement (the "Kern Purchas e Agreement") with SunPower pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project, as further described below in "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions." Effective January 26, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of SunPower Commercial II Class B, LLC (the "Kern Class B Partnership") . Kern High School District Solar (2), LLC (the "Kern Project Entity") is an indirect subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership, and OpCo holds a controlling interest in the Kern Class B Partnership effective January 26, 2016. The Partnership has concluded that OpCo is the primary beneficiary of the Kern Class B Partnership as it has the power to direct the activities that most sign ificantly impact its economic performance and absorbs the majority of losses and has the right to receive benefits over the life of the project. Therefore, OpCo consolidates this less-than-wholly-owned entity. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-20 16 Acquisitions" for further details. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "Kingbird Purchase Agreement") with First Solar and First Solar Asset Management, LLC, a wholly- owned subsidiary of First Solar ("Kingbird Seller"), to acquire an interest in the Kingbird Project, as further described below in "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions." Effective March 31, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC from First Solar. FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC holds the class B limited liability company interests of Kingbird Solar, LLC. Kingbird Solar A, LLC and Kingbird Solar B, LLC (the "Kingbird Project Entities") are direct subsidiaries of Kingbird Solar, LLC, and OpCo holds a controlling interest in the Kingbird Solar, LLC effective March31, 2016. The Partnership has concluded that OpCo is the primary beneficiary of Kingbird Solar, LLC as it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact its economic performance and absorbs the majority of losses and has the right to receive benefits over the life of the project. Therefore, OpCo consolidates this less-than-wholly-owned entity.Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Agreement (the "Hooper Purchase Agreement") with SunPower and SunPower AssetCo, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunPower, to acquire an interest in the Hooper Project, as further described below in "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions." Effective April 1, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of SSCO III Class B Holdings, LLC (the "Hooper Class B Partnership"). Solar Star Colorado III, LLC (the "Hooper Project Entity") is an indirect subsidiary of the Hooper Class B Partnership , and OpCo holds a controlling interest in the Hooper Class B Partnership effective April 1, 2016. The Partnership has concluded that OpCo is the primary beneficiary of the Hooper Class B Partnership as it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact its economic performance and absorbs the majority of losses and has the right to receive benefits over the life of the project. Therefore, OpCo consolidates this less-than-wholly-owned entity. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. On June 29, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Agreement (the "Macy's Maryland Purchase Agreement") with SunPower and SunPower AssetCo, LLC to acquire an interest in the Macy's Maryland Project , as further described below in "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions." Effective July 1, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of SunPower Commercial III Class B, LLC (the "Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership"). Northstar Macys Maryland 2015, LLC (the "Macy's Maryland Project Entity") is an indirect subsidiary of the Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership, and OpCo holds a controlling interest in the Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership effective July 1, 2016. The Partnership has concluded that OpCo is the primary beneficiary of the Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership as it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact its economic performance and absorbs the majority of losses and has the right to receive benefits over the life of the project. Therefore, OpCo consolidates this less-than-wholly-owned entity. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. The Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), and include the accounts of the Partnership, and all of its subsidiaries, as appropriate under consolidation accounting guidelines. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from the audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates in which the Partnership has less than a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All significant inter-entity accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments (consisting of normal, recurring items) necessary to state fairly its financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the accounting policies previously disclosed in "Note 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and "Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the 2015 10-K. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year . 14 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Fiscal Years On June 24, 2015, in connection with the closing of the IPO, the Partnership amended the Partnership Agreement to include a change in the fiscal year to November 30. The third quarter of the Partnership's fiscal 2016 includes the period from June 1, 2016 to August 31, 2016, and the corresponding third quarter of the Partnership's fiscal 2015 includes the period from June 1, 2015 to August31, 2015, which are consistent with the Partnership's November 30 fiscal year end. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements cover the period from December 1, 2015 to August 31, 2016, representing the entire nine-month period of the Partnership's first, second and third quarters of fiscal year 2016. The prior year's comparable eight-month period covers the period from December 29, 2014 through August 31, 2015, representing the first eight months of the Partnership's recently adopted fiscal year. As a result of the change in the Partnership's fiscal year end, the quarterly periods of its newly adopted fiscal year do not coincide with the historical quarterly periods previously reported by the Predecessor. Financial information for the nine months ended August 31, 2015 has not been included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the following reasons: (i) the eight months ended August 31, 2015 provide as meaningful a comparison to the nine months ended August 31, 2016 as would the nine months ended August 31, 2015; (ii) the Partnership believes that there are no significant factors, seasonal or otherwise, that would impact the comparability of information if the results for the nine months ended August 31, 2015 were presented in lieu of results for the eight months ended August 31, 2015; and (iii) it was not practicable or cost justified to prepare this information. Management Estimates The preparation of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the assumptions and methodology underlying the allocations of expenses incurred on the Predecessor's behalf that were recorded in the Predecessor's condensed carve-out financial statements, as well as: allowances for doubtful accounts related to accounts receivable and financing receivables; estimates for future cash flows and economic useful lives of property and equipment; the fair value and residual value of leased solar power systems; fair value of financial instruments; fair value of acquired assets and liabilities; valuation of certain accrued liabilities such as accrued warranty and asset retirement obligation ("ARO"); and income taxes including the related valuation allowance. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued an update to the statement of cash flows guidance, which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. One identified cash flow issue relates to distributions received from equity method investees whereby the reporting entity should make an accounting policy election to classify distributions received from equity method investees using either the cumulative earnings approach or the nature of the distribution approach. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and is applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Partnership is evaluating the change in accounting policy from the cumulative earnings approach to the nature of the distribution approach and the impact on its unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and disclosures. In March 2016, the FASB issued an update to the equity method investments guidance, which eliminates the requirement that an entity retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting if an investment qualifies for use of the equity method as a result of an increase in the level of ownership or degree of influence. The update requires that the equity method investor add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2017 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. 15 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued In February 2016, the FASB issued an update to the lease accounting guidance, which requires entities to begin recording assets a nd liabilities arising from substantially all leases on the balance sheet. The new guidance will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this st andard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In November 2015, the FASB issued an update which requires entities that present a classified balance sheet to classify all deferred taxes as noncurrent assets or noncurrent liabilities. The Partnership adopted the new guidance retrospectively beginning on June 1, 2016. Since the Partnership's formation, it has not classified any deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities as current on its balance sheet; therefore, there is no effect of the accounting change on prior periods. In May 2014, the FASB issued a new revenue recognition standard based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of this standard for all entities by one year. The new revenue recognition standard becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and is to be applied retrospectively using one of two prescribed methods. The Partnership is evaluating the application method and impact on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. Other than as described above, there has been no issued accounting guidance not yet adopted by the Partnership that it believes is material or potentially material to its consolidated financial statements. Note 2. Business Combinations Acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that must be completed as of the acquisition date. The judgments made in the context of the purchase price allocation can materially impact the Partnership's future results of operations. 2016 Acquisitions For the acquisitions completed during the nine months ended August 31, 2016, the valuation is based on the preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests as of the acquisition date, and is subject to change as the Partnership obtains additional information for its estimates during the respective measurement period. Kern Acquisition: On January 26, 2016, OpCo and SunPower entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement, which was amended on September 28, 2016, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in a solar energy project consisting of systems attached to fixed-tilt carports located at 27 school sites in the Kern High School District located in Kern County, California, and having an aggregate nameplate capacity of up to 21 MW (the "Kern Project") . OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project will be effectuated in four phases, with the closing of the first phase having occurred simultaneously with the execution of the Kern Purchase Agreement. The following describes the acquisition of each phase: (i) Phase 1(a): On January 26, 2016, 8point3 OpCo Holdings, LLC , a wholly owned subsidiary of OpCo, acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership . Prior to the date of the execution of the Kern Purchase Agreement and in connection with the closing of the tax equity financing for the Kern Project, described below, the Kern Project Entity, an indirect subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership, acquired the assets included in Phase 1(a) (the "Kern Phase 1(a) Assets"). The initial phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition". (ii) Phase 1(b): On September 9, 2016, the Kern Project Entity acquired the assets included in Kern Phase 1(b) (the "Kern Phase 1(b) Assets") from SunPower. (iii) Phase 2: At two future closing dates, which are expected to occur in the fiscal quarter ending February 28, 2017, the Kern Project Entity will acquire the Kern Phase 2 assets from SunPower. 16 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition is up to $36.6 million in cash, of which OpCo paid approximately $4.9 million on January 27, 2016 in connection with the closing of the first phase on January 26, 2016 and approximately $9.2 million on September9, 2016 in connection with the closing of the second phase on September 9, 2016.OpCo will pay the remaining balance of up to $22.5 million purchase price at the closings of the third and fourth phases. In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a quarterly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point is achieved. After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase. In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. The tax equity investor will make capital contributions to fund purchase price payments up to approximately $31.2 million, of which $0.9 million and $1.8 million was paid on January 22, 2016 and September 9, 2016, respectively, and the remaining balance of up to $28.5 million will be made when the Kern Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K . The Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition and the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition qualify as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets is disclosed in the following table. Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for the purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets. Kingbird Acquisition: On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kingbird Purchase Agreement with First Solar, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in two 20 MW photovoltaic solar generating projects located in Kern County, California (together, the "Kingbird Project") for aggregate consideration of $60.0 million in cash (the "Kingbird Acquisition"). Consideration for the Kingbird Acquisition comprised a $42.9 million payment on the closing date of March 31, 2016 to Kingbird Seller and a $17.1 million contribution to FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC, the acquired company, on May 31, 2016 which was subsequently paid to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining balance due under the Kingbird Project's EPC contract. The closing of the Kingbird Acquisition occurred simultaneously with the execution of the Kingbird Purchase Agreement and OpCo funded 100% of the payment for the Kingbird Project with a combination of cash on hand, drawings under OpCo's revolver and drawings under OpCo's delayed draw facility. Ownership and cash flows of the Kingbird Project are subject to a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kingbird Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a quarterly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point, based on the achievement of a targeted internal rate of return. After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase. In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. The tax equity investor made capital contributions to fund purchase price payments of approximately $11.7 million on February 26, 2016 and $46.8 million on May 31, 2016, which were made when the Kingbird Project's phases met certain construction milestones and were transferred to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining purchase price payments. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K. 17 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The Kingbird Acquisition qualifies as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method.The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrol ling interests of the Kingbird Project is as follows: (1) Related party payable represents liabilities for amounts due to an affiliate of First Solar related to the construction of the project and consisted of: (i) a $17.1 million contribution to FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC, the acquired company, by OpCo on May 31, 2016, which was subsequently paid by the acquired company and (ii) a $46.8 million payment made from the capital contribution by the tax equity investor on May 31, 2016. Hooper Acquisition : On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Hooper Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the 50 MW photovoltaic solar generating project located in Alamosa County, Colorado (the "Hooper Project") for aggregate consideration of $53.5 million in cash (the "Hooper Acquisition"). The Hooper Acquisition closed on April 1, 2016 and OpCo funded 100% of the purchase price for the Hooper Project with a combination of cash on hand, drawings under OpCo's revolver and drawings under OpCo's delayed draw facility. Ownership and cash flows of the Hooper Project are subject to a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Hooper Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a quarterly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point is achieved.After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase.In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K. The Hooper Acquisition qualifies as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Hooper Project is as follows: (1) Accounts receivable represent the fair value of the trade accounts receivable acquired, all of which are expected to be collected. (2) Accrued liabilities includes $0.3 million of cash distributions payable that was paid to the tax equity investor on April 30, 2016. (3) The net purchase price for the acquisition represents $53.5 million of cash paid by OpCo, offset by $0.4 million cash acquired in the Hooper Project Entity. 18 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Macy's Maryland Acquisition: On June 29, 2016, OpCo entered into the Macy's Maryland Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the 5 MW roof-mounted solar photovoltaic project being installed at seven Macy's department stores in Maryland ("Macy's Maryland Project") for aggregate consideration of $12.0 million in cash (the "Macy's Maryland Acquisition"). Consideration for the Macy's Maryland Acquisition comprised a $12.0 million contribution to Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership, the acquired company, on July 1, 2016 of which $6.4 million was subsequently paid to SunPower and the $5.6 million remaining balance due was paid to SunPower on September 21, 2016 when the Macy's Maryland Project met certain construction milestones. Ownership and cash flows of the Macy's Maryland Project are subject to a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Macy's Maryland Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a quarterly amount of project cash flows until a specified "flip" point is achieved. After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase. In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investors' interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K. The Macy's Maryland Acquisition qualifies as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Macy's Maryland Project is as follows: (1) Customer contract intangible will be amortized on a straight-line basis beginning on COD through the contract term end date of December 31, 2020. (2) Related party payable represents liabilities for amounts due to SunPower related to the construction of the project and consisted of: (i) $5.6 million paid to SunPower on September 21, 2016 when the Macy's Maryland Project met certain construction milestones and (ii) $8.3 million of capital contributions due by the tax equity investor of which $3.3 million was paid on September 21, 2016. (3) The net purchase price for the acquisition represents $12.0 million of cash contributed by OpCo to Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership, the acquired company, of which $6.4 million was subsequently paid to SunPower and the $5.6 million remaining balance due was paid to SunPower on September 21, 2016 when the Macy's Maryland Project met certain construction milestones. Valuation methodology: The Partnership utilized the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to value property and equipment for the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project and the Macy's Maryland Project, to value noncontrolling interests for the Hooper Project and to value the customer contract intangible for the Macy's Maryland Project. Key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow method included forecasted pre-tax cash flows, forecasted taxable income and discount rates. All estimates, key assumptions and forecasts were reviewed by the Partnership and the fair value analyses and related valuations represent the conclusions of management. Supplementary Data: The results of operations for the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project and the Macy's Maryland Project have been included in the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations since their respective dates of acquisition. The Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project and the Macy's Maryland Project contributed approximately $4.6 million and $6.8 million to the Partnership's operating revenue in the three and nine months ended August 31, 19 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued 2016, respectively, and increased operating income by approximately $2.3 million and $3.3 million, respectively. The Kern Phase 1(b) Acqu isition occurred after August 31, 2016, and as such the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets have not been included in the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016. 2015 Acquisitions For the acquisitions completed in fiscal 2015, the Partnership obtained valuations from a third-party valuation specialist. The valuations calculated from these estimates were based on information available at the acquisition date. Therefore, the Partnership's purchase price allocations are final and not subject to revision. On June 24, 2015, the Partnership acquired a 100% interest in the Maryland Solar Project Entity, and a 49% indirect interest in each of the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project and the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, each of which is described in more detail below. Maryland Solar The Maryland Solar Project, located in Maryland, is a fully operational 20 MW grid-connected system contracted to serve a 20-year PPA with FirstEnergy Solutions, a subsidiary of FirstEnergy Corp. Solar Gen 2 The Solar Gen 2 Project, located in California, is a fully operational 150 MW grid-connected system spanning three separate 50 MW sites. Electricity generated by the three separate systems is contracted to serve a 25-year PPA with San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Company ("SDG&amp;E"), a subsidiary of Sempra Energy. North Star The North Star Project, located in California, is a fully operational 60 MW grid-connected system contracted to serve a 20-year PPA with PG&amp;E, a subsidiary of PG&amp;E Corporation. Lost Hills Blackwell The Lost Hills Blackwell Project, located in California, is a fully operational 32 MW grid-connected system contracted to serve a 25-year PPA with PG&amp;E, a subsidiary of PG&amp;E Corporation, starting in 2019. The Lost Hills Blackwell Project is also contracted to serve a short-term PPA with the City of Roseville, California prior to the system's PPA with PG&amp;E. The purchase allocation for the acquired assets and liabilities of the above IPO First Solar Project Entities is as follows: 20 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The following unaudited pro forma supplementary data gives effect to the 2015 Acquisitions as if the transactions had occurred on December 30, 2013. The unaudited pro forma supplementary data is provided for informational purposes only and should not be construed as indicative of the Partnership's results of operations had the 2015 Acquisitions been consummated on the date assumed or of the Partnership's results of oper ations for any future date. Note 3. Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates As of August 31, 2016, the Partnership owns a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings and Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings. On September 20, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Agreement with SunPower and SunPower AssetCo, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunPower, to acquire a 49% interest in a substantially completed, 102 MW photovoltaic solar generating facility located in Kings County, California (the "Henrietta Project") for $134.0 million in cash (the "Henrietta Acquisition"). An affiliate of Southern Company, which is not affiliated with the Partnership, owns the other 51% ownership interest in SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings and the Henrietta Project. The minority membership interests are accounted for as equity method investments. The following table summarizes the activity of the Partnership's investments in its unconsolidated affiliates during the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016. The Partnership's investment in the Henrietta Project will be included in the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements beginning September 29, 2016. Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further details. (1) The net income (loss) used to determine the Partnership's equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates reflects adjustments pursuant to the equity method of accounting, including the amortization of basis differences resulting from the Partnership's proportionate share of certain equity method investees' net assets exceeding their carrying values. (2) On the consolidated statements of cash flows, the Partnership classifies distributions received from unconsolidated investees accounted for under the equity method using the cumulative earnings approach. Under the cumulative earnings approach, the Partnership compares cumulative distributions received, less distributions received in prior year that was determined to be returns of investment, to its share of cumulative equity in earnings (as adjusted for basis differences) for each unconsolidated investee on an inception-to-date basis. If the Partnership's inception-to-date distributions are greater than its inception-to-date equity in earnings for an unconsolidated investee, the distributions up to its inception-to-date equity in earnings are considered a return on investment and are therefore classified as cash flows from operating activities while the distributions of that unconsolidated investee in excess of its inception-to-date equity in earnings are considered to be a return of investment and are classified as cash flows from investing activities. If the Partnership's inception-to-date distributions are less than its inception-to-date equity in earnings for an unconsolidated investee, such distributions are considered to be a return on investment and are classified as cash flows from operating activities. 21 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The difference between the amounts at which the Partnership's investments in unconsolidated affiliates are carried and the Partnership's proportionate share of the equity method investee's net assets for equity method investments was $55.2 million and $56.5 million as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. The Partnership accretes the basis difference over the life of the underlying assets and the accretion was $0.4 million and $1.2 million for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, respectively, and $0.3 million for both of the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015. The following table presents summarized financial information of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings and Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings as derived from the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the affiliates for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015: Note 4. Balance Sheet Components Financing Receivables The Partnership's net investment in sales-type leases presented in "Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net" and "Long-term financing receivables, net" on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets is as follows: (1) Allowance for losses on financing receivables was $0.6 million and $0.3 million as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. (2) Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets includes other trade accounts receivable of $7.9 million and $1.9 million as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. 22 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Current and Non-current Assets (1) For the Quinto Project and Kingbird Project, the construction costs related to the network upgrade of a transmission grid belonging to a utility company are reimbursable by that utility company over five years from the date the project reached commercial operation. (2) Other current assets included $0.7 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.2 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.5 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2016. Similarly, other current assets included $0.9 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.2 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.7 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2015. (3) Construction-in-progress is comprised of project assets related to the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and the Macy's Maryland Project. (4) Intangible assets represent customer contract intangible from the Macy's Maryland Acquisition and will be amortized on a straight-line basis beginning on COD through the contract term end date of December 31, 2020. 23 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Current and Non-current Liabilities (1) Related party payable on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets consists of (i) $3.4 million related to the purchase price payable by tax equity investors to SunPower for the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition as of August 31, 2016; (ii) $5.6 million due to SunPower as of August 31, 2016 and paid on September 21, 2016 when the Macy's Maryland Project met certain construction milestones; (iii) $8.3 million due to SunPower as of August 31, 2016 related to the purchase price payable by tax equity investors for the Macy's Maryland Acquisition of which $3.3 million was paid on September 21, 2016; and (iv) $0.2 million as of both August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015 for accounts payable to related parties associated with O&amp;M, AMA and MSA fees owed to the Sponsors. Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies Land Use Commitments The Partnership is a party to various agreements that provide for payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which projects under PPAs are located. The total minimum lease and easement commitments at August 31, 2016 under these land use agreements are as follows: Solar Power System Performance Warranty Lease agreements require the Partnership to undertake a system output performance warranty. The Partnership has recorded in "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" amounts related to these system output performance warranties totaling $0.2 million as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015. The Partnership has also recorded in "Other current assets" amounts of $0.2 million as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015 relating to anticipated performance warranty reimbursements from the O&amp;M provider. 24 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The following table summarizes accrued solar power systems performance warranty activity for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, and three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively: Asset Retirement Obligations ("ARO") The Partnership's AROs are based on estimated third-party costs associated with the decommissioning of the applicable project assets. These costs may increase or decrease in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications, inflation or other factors. Decommissioning activities generally are made over a period of time commencing at the end of the system's life. The following table summarizes ARO activity for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively: Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Partnership may be notified of possible claims or assessments. The Partnership will record a provision for these claims when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss, or a range of the potential loss, can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed regularly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information or events pertaining to a particular case. Although the Partnership may, from time to time, be involved in litigation and claims arising from its operations in the ordinary course of business, the Partnership is not a party to any litigation or governmental or other proceeding that the Partnership believes will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Environmental Contingencies The Partnership reviews its obligations as they relate to compliance with environmental laws, including site restoration and remediation. During each of the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, there were no known environmental contingencies that required the Partnership to recognize a liability. 25 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 6. Lease Agreements and Power Purchase Agreements Lease Agreements As of August 31, 2016, the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include approximately 5,900 residential lease agreements which have original terms of 20 years and are classified as either operating or sales-type leases. In addition, the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project has a lease term that will expire on December 31, 2019, and the lessee, who is an affiliate of First Solar, is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The following table presents the Partnership's minimum future rental receipts on operating leases (including the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project and the residential lease portfolio) placed in service as of August 31, 2016: (1) Minimum future rentals on operating leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. As of August 31, 2016, future maturities of net financing receivables for sales-type leases are as follows: (1) Minimum future rentals on sales-type leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. Power Purchase Agreements Under the terms of various PPAs, the Partnership's contracted counterparties may be obligated to take all or part of the output from the system at stipulated prices over defined periods. All PPAs associated with solar generation systems operating as of August 31, 2016 are accounted for as operating leases, have no minimum lease payments and all of the rental income under these leases is recorded as revenue when the electricity is delivered. Note 7. Debt and Financing Obligations Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. OpCo borrowed $300.0 million under the term loan facility on June 5, 2015, which indebtedness will mature on the fifth anniversary of its issuance, at which point all amounts outstanding under the $525.0 million credit facility will become due and payable. There will be no principal amortization over the term of the credit facility. The discount and incremental debt issuance costs associated with these borrowings were $3.1 million, which included $1.7 million of debt issuance costs paid with a portion of the proceeds and $1.4 million related to a reclassification of capitalized issuance costs on the Predecessor's historical financial statements, and were reported as a direct deduction from the face amount of the note. The Partnership used the net proceeds of the term loan facility to pay distributions of $129.4 million and $168.9 million to First Solar and SunPower, respectively. On March 30, 2016, in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition, OpCo drew down $40.0 million from its revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from its delayed draw term loan facility. As of August 31, 2016, the full amount of the $300.0 million borrowed under the term loan facility, the full amount of the $25.0 million borrowed under the delayed draw term 26 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued loan facility, $40.0 million borrowed unde r the revolving credit facility, and approximately $58.6 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. As of November 30, 2015, the full amount of the $300.0 million borrowed under the term loan facility and approximate ly $48.8 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. The remaining portion of the revolving credit facility was undrawn . OpCo's credit facility is collateralized by a pledge of the equity of OpCo and certain of its subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. The term loan bears an interest rate of approximately 2.52 % and 2.41% per annum as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, respectively. OpCo has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the interest rate on the borrowings under the term loan facility. For more details, p lease read "-Note 8. Fair Value." Subject to certain conditions, the credit facility includes conditional borrowing capacity for incremental commitments to increase the term loan facility and the revolving credit facility by $250.0 million, with any increase in the revolving credit facility not to exceed $100.0 million. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into an amendment and joinder agreement (the "Joinder Agreement") under its existing senior secured credit facility, pursuant to which OpCo exercised this accordion feature and obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million. Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further details. The credit facility contains covenants, including among others, requiring the Partnership to maintain the following financial ratios: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio of not more than (a) 5.50 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending August 31, 2016 through May 31, 2017, and (b) 5.00 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of the Partnership or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. As of August 31, 2016, the Partnership was in compliance with the debt covenants. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended OpCo's credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement, (ii) to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. The following table summarizes the Partnership's long-term debt: 27 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Quinto Solar Project Financing In order to facilitate the construction of certain projects, the Predecessor obtained non-recourse project loans from third-party financial institutions. On October 17, 2014, the Predecessor, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, the Quinto Project Entity, entered into an approximately $377.0 million credit facility with Santander Bank, N.A., Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and Credit Agricole Corporate &amp; Investment Bank (the "Quinto Credit Facility") in connection with the construction of the Quinto Project. On June 24, 2015, in connection with the closing of the IPO and the concurrent transfer of the Quinto Project to OpCo, the Quinto Project Entity repaid the full amount outstanding under the Quinto Credit Facility and terminated the agreement early. Immediately before termination, there were outstanding borrowings of $224.3 million under the Quinto Credit Facility. Termination of the Quinto Credit Facility became effective upon full repayment by the Quinto Project Entity on June 24, 2015. The Quinto Project Entity paid a $0.6 million fee for early repayment of the Quinto Credit Facility. Residential Lease Financing The Predecessor entered into two financing arrangements under which leased solar power systems were financed by two third-party investors. Under the terms of these financing arrangements, the investors provided upfront payments to the Predecessor, which the Predecessor recognized as a financing obligation that was reduced over the specified term of the arrangement as customer receivables and federal cash grants were received by the third-party investors. Non-cash interest expense was recognized on the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations using the effective interest rate method calculated at a rate of approximately 14%-15%. On January 30, 2015, the Predecessor entered into an agreement with the third-party investor for one of the residential lease financing arrangements that terminated such financing arrangement. In conjunction with the termination of the arrangement, the Predecessor paid $10.8 million to terminate the $10.1 million outstanding financing obligation. On January 23, 2015, the Predecessor entered into an agreement with the third-party investor for the other residential lease financing arrangement that allowed the Predecessor to repay the outstanding financing obligation and terminate the associated agreements on or before September 30, 2015. This repayment was exercised on May 4, 2015. The Predecessor paid $29.0 million to terminate the $21.1 million outstanding financing obligation and $1.9 million accrued financing fee. August 2011 Letter of Credit Facility with Deutsche Bank In August 2011, the Predecessor's parent, SunPower, entered into a letter of credit facility agreement with Deutsche Bank, as administrative agent, and certain financial institutions. Payment of obligations under the letter of credit facility is guaranteed by the majority shareholder of SunPower, Total S.A. As of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015 letters of credit issued and outstanding under the August 2011 letter of credit facility with Deutsche Bank which is available to SunPower for the Quinto Project and the RPU Project totaled $14.0 million and $30.7 million, respectively. The associated fees incurred for the letters of credit to Deutsche Bank were $0.1 million and $0.3 million during the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, respectively, and $0.1 million and $0.4 million during the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively, and were recognized as interest expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Pursuant to the Original Omnibus Agreement, SunPower as the Sponsor who contributed the Quinto Project cancelled one of its letter of credit facilities associated with the Quinto Project upon its achieving COD in November 2015. However, SunPower will continue to maintain the remaining letters of credit under the credit facility in connection with certain reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project and will bear the associated fees until no later than November 2016. Since the RPU Project achieved COD in September 2015, SunPower as the Sponsor who contributed the RPU Project is in the process of terminating the related letters of credit, and the Partnership has issued the required letters of credit under its revolving credit facility. 28 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 8. Fair Value Fair value is estimated by applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement (observable inputs are the preferred basis of valuation): Level 1-Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2-Measurements are inputs that are observable for assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly, other than quoted prices included within Level 1. Level 3-Prices or valuations that require management inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. The first two levels in the hierarchy are considered observable inputs and the last is considered unobservable. Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following table presents the Partnership's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, categorized in accordance with the fair value hierarchy: Derivative financial instruments: On July 17, 2015, OpCo entered into interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $240.0 million. Under the interest rate swap agreements, OpCo paid a fixed swap rate of interest of 1.55% and the counterparties to the agreements paid a floating interest rate based on three-month LIBOR at quarterly intervals through the maturity date of August 31, 2018. OpCo had the right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and any quarterly fixed payment date thereafter with a minimum of five business days' notification. OpCo exercised its right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and entered into new interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $250.0 million. Under the new interest rate swap agreements, OpCo will pay a fixed swap rate of interest of approximately 0.85% and the counterparties to the agreements will pay a floating interest rate based on one-month LIBOR at monthly intervals through the maturity date of August 31, 2018. As of both August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, these interest rate swap agreements had not been designated as cash flow hedges and are reflected at fair value on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of August 31, 2016, these interest rate swap agreements have been presented in other long-term liabilities on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet since the maturity date is two years after the balance sheet date. As of November 30, 2015, these interest rate swap agreements had been presented in other current liabilities on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet since OpCo had the right to cancel the swap agreements within one year of the balance sheet date. During the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, the Partnership recorded a change in fair value of $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively, within other income in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations as compared to each of the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, where the Partnership recorded a change in fair value of $0.8 million within other expense. The primary inputs into the valuation of interest rate swaps are interest yield curves, interest rate volatility, and credit spreads. The Partnership's interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, since all significant inputs are corroborated by market observable data. There were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the period. The Predecessor entered into interest rate swap agreements, designated as cash flow hedges, in the fourth quarter of the year ended December 28, 2014 on the outstanding and forecasted future borrowings under the Quinto Credit Facility to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. These swap agreements allowed the Predecessor to effectively convert floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments periodically over the life of the agreements. These derivatives had a maturity of more than 12 months. The Predecessor assessed the effectiveness of these cash flow hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis. If it was determined that a derivative instrument was not 29 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued highly effective or the transaction was no longer deemed probable of occurring, the Predecessor discontinued hedge accounting and recognized the ineffective portion in current period earnings. In March 2015, the Predecessor discontinued hedge accounting prospectively for its interest rate swap agreements under the Quinto Credit Facility, as it was no longer deemed probable that the h edge transactions will occur. However, because it remained possible that the forecasted hedge transactions would occur, previously recognized loss of $3.0 million on the interest rate swaps remained in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of March 29, 2 015, and such loss was reclassified into earnings during the quarter ended June 28, 2015, the same period that the forecasted hedged transactions affect earnings or was otherwise deemed to be improbable of occurrence. During the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, $2.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively, related to the ineffective portion was recognized in earnings within other expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis Long-term debt and financing obligations: The estimated fair value of the Partnership's long-term debt was classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, and approximated its carrying value of $362.7 million and $297.2 million, respectively, as the term loan facility is a variable rate debt with the interest rate indexed to the market and reset on a frequent and short-term basis . Note 9. Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests represent the portion of net assets in consolidated subsidiaries that are not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Partnership. For accounting purposes, the holders of noncontrolling interests of the Partnership include the Sponsors, which are SunPower and First Solar, as described in Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 1-Description of Business and Basis of Presentation," and third-party investors under the tax equity financing facilities . As of both August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, First Solar and SunPower had noncontrolling interests of 31.1% and 40.7%, respectively, in OpCo. In addition, certain subsidiaries of OpCo have entered into tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems. The Partnership, through OpCo, holds controlling interests in these less-than-wholly-owned entities and has therefore fully consolidated these entities. The Partnership accounts for the portion of net assets using the Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value ("HLBV") Method in the consolidated entities attributable to the investors as &quot;Redeemable noncontrolling interests&quot; and &quot;Noncontrolling interests&quot; in its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries that are redeemable at the option of the noncontrolling interest holder are classified as &quot;Redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries&quot; between liabilities and equity on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and the balance is the greater of the carrying value calculated under the HLBV Method or the redemption value. As of August 31, 2016, redeemable noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors was $17.6 million after adjusting the carrying amount to the redemption value. As of November 30, 2015, redeemable noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors was $89.7 million calculated under the HLBV Method and was greater than the redemption value. As of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015, noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors were $50.8 million and $11.8 million , respectively. In addition, in connection with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition on January 26, 2016, the Kingbird Acquisition on March 31, 2016, the Hooper Acquisition on April 1, 2016, and the Macy's Maryland Acquisition on July 1, 2016, OpCo acquired the noncontrolling interest balances totaling $0.9 million, $11.7 million, $23.7 million, and $0.6 million, respectively. Please read " - Note 2 -Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. 30 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued During the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received zero and $47.2 million, re spectively, in contributions from third-party investors under the related facilities, of which $46.8 million was transferred to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining purchase price payment of the Kingbird Project. During the three and nine months e nded August 31, 2016, such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo attributed $24.3 million and $112.1 million, respectively, in income to the third-party investors primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During both the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received $7.0 million in contributions from third-party investors under the related facilities and attributed $0.7 million in losses to the third-party investo rs primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo made distributions to third-party investors under the related facilities of $2.3 million and $4.9 million, respectively, compared to distributions of zero for both the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015. The following table presents the noncontrolling interest balances by entity, reported in shareholders' equity in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August 31, 2016 and November 30, 2015: Note 10. Shareholders' Equity On June 24, 2015, the Partnership completed its IPO by issuing 20,000,000 of its Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership to the public. As of August 31, 2016, the Partnership owned a 28.2% limited liability company interest in OpCo as well as a controlling noneconomic managing member interest in OpCo and the Sponsors collectively owned 51,000,000 Class B shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership, and together, having owned a noncontrolling 71.8% limited liability company interest in OpCo. As of August 31, 2016, the following shares of the Partnership were outstanding: On September 28, 2016 the Partnership sold in an underwritten registered public offering 8,050,000 Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership (the "Public Offering"). Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further details. Cash Distribution The Partnership is required to distribute its available cash (as defined in the Partnership Agreement) to the holders of Class A shares each quarter as described in "Note 12. Shareholders' Equity" of the 2015 10-K. On July 15, 2016 , the Partnership paid its second quarter distribution of $4.7 million to Class A shareholders for the period from March 1, 2016 to May 31, 2016. Note 11. Net Income Per Share Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively, attributable to Class A shareholders by the weighted average number of Class A shares outstanding for the applicable period. Diluted net income per share is computed using basic weighted average Class A shares outstanding plus, if dilutive, any potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period using the treasury-stock-type method. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement entered into among the Partnership, the General Partner, OpCo, a wholly owned 31 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued subsidiary of SunPower and a wholly owned subsidiary of First Solar, the Sponsors can tender OpCo common units and an equal numb er of such Sponsor's Class B shares for redemption, and the Partnership has the right to directly purchase the tendered OpCo common units and Class B shares for, subject to the approval of its conflicts committee, cash or the issuance of Class A shares of the Partnership. If the Partnership elects to issue Class A shares, it would cancel the tendered Class B shares and hold the OpCo common units with the other OpCo common units it previously held, since the number of Class A shares issued must at all time e qual the number of OpCo common units held by the Partnership. Since the Partnership would be holding additional OpCo common units, the net income attributable to Class A shares would proportionately increase, resulting in no change to net income per share for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively. In addition, there were no potentially dilutive securities (including any stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units) fo r the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively. Accordingly, basic and diluted net income per share for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and the three and eight months end ed August 31, 2015, respectivly, was as follows: (1) Up to the amount of OpCo common units held by Sponsors 32 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 12. Related Parties Management Services Agreements Immediately prior to the completion of the IPO on June 24, 2015, the Partnership, together with the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings, entered into similar but separate Management Services Agreements (the "MSAs") with affiliates of each of the Sponsors (each, a "Service Provider"). Under the MSAs, the Service Providers will provide or arrange for the provision of certain administrative and management services for the Partnership and certain of its subsidiaries, including managing the Partnership's day-to-day affairs, in addition to those services that are provided under existing O&amp;M agreements and asset management agreements ("AMAs") between affiliates of the Sponsors and certain of the subsidiaries of the Partnership. In August 2015, the First Solar MSA and the SunPower MSA were amended to adjust the annual management fee payable to each respective Service Provider. In the case of the First Solar MSA, OpCo will initially pay an annual management fee of $0.6 million to the First Solar Service Provider. In the case of the SunPower MSA, OpCo will initially pay an annual management fee of $1.1 million to the SunPower Service Provider. These payments are subject to annual adjustments for inflation. Between December 1, 2015 and November 30, 2016, each Service Provider will have a one-time right to increase the management fee by an amount not to exceed 15%. Costs incurred for these services were $0.4 million and $1.2 million for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, respectively. Costs incurred for these services were $0.3 million in each of the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015. Engineering, Procurement and Construction Agreements Various projects are designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to EPC agreements with affiliates of the Sponsors, which may include a 2- to 10-year system warranty against defects in materials, construction, fabrication and workmanship, and in some cases, may include a 25-year power and product warranty on certain modules. As of August 31, 2016, all of the projects contributed by the Sponsors on the date of the IPO have achieved COD and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and the Macy's Maryland Project are construction-in-progress and expected to achieve COD in December 2016 and October 2016, respectively. SunPower as the EPC provider is required to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets and the Macy's Maryland Project and pursuant to the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement, all the associated costs to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets and the Macy's Maryland Project are obligations of SunPower. Operations and Maintenance Agreements and Asset Management Agreements The Project Entities and certain other subsidiaries have entered into O&amp;M agreements and AMAs with affiliates of the Sponsors, as applicable (except where such persons are otherwise subject to O&amp;M agreements or AMAs with unaffiliated third parties). Under the terms of the O&amp;M agreements and the AMAs, such affiliates have agreed to provide a variety of operation, maintenance and asset management services, and certain performance warranties or availability guarantees, to the subsidiaries of the Partnership in exchange for annual fees, which are subject to certain adjustments. O&amp;M services to the leased solar power systems, also known as executory costs, were allocated to the Predecessor by SunPower and disclosed as cost of operations-SunPower in the combined carve-out statement of operations of the Predecessor. Costs incurred for O&amp;M and AMA services were $1.5 million and $3.8 million for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, respectively, compared to $0.1 million and $0.5 million for the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively . Omnibus Agreement In connection with the IPO, the Partnership entered into an omnibus agreement (the "Original Omnibus Agreement"), with its Sponsors, the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings, under which (i) each Sponsor was granted an exclusive right to perform certain services not otherwise covered by an O&amp;M agreement or an AMA on behalf of the IPO Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor, (ii) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that did not achieve commercial operation as of the closing of the IPO, the Sponsor who contributed such project will pay to OpCo all costs required to complete such project, as well as certain liquidated damages in the event such project fails to achieve operability pursuant to an agreed schedule, (iii) each Sponsor agreed to certain undertakings on the part of its affiliates who are members of the IPO Project Entities or who provide asset management, construction, operating and maintenance and other services to the IPO Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor, (iv) to the extent a Sponsor continues to post credit support on behalf of an IPO Project Entity after it has been contributed to OpCo, OpCo agreed to reimburse such Sponsor upon 33 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued any demand or draw under such credit support, and the Sponsor agreed to maintain such support pursuant to the applicable underlying contractual or regulatory requirements, (v) each Sponsor agreed to indemnify OpCo fo r any costs it incurs with respect to certain tax-related events and events in connection with tax equity financing arrangements, and (vi) the parties agreed to a mutual undertaking regarding confidentiality and use of names, trademarks, trade names and ot her insignias. In August 2015, the Original Omnibus Agreement was amended to provide that (i) with respect to each of the North Star Project and the Quinto Project, which were contributed to the Partnership by First Solar and SunPower, respectively, the Sponsors agreed to pay to OpCo the difference, if any, between the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of the Sponsor's project at the time of contribution and the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of such project at the commencement of commercial operation of such project; and (ii) SunPower agreed to indemnify OpCo for certain costs it may incur in connection with the termination of certain tax equity financing arrangements relating to the contributed residential lease portfolios, which occurred before the Partnership's IPO. During the three months ended February 29, 2016, the Partnership received a $10.0 million indemnity payment for a shortfall associated with the network upgrade refunds projected to be received. In November 2015, the Original Omnibus Agreement was amended to provide that the indemnity for energy produced prior to commercial operation owed by each Sponsor to OpCo will be calculated on an aggregate basis with respect to all projects contributed by such Sponsor in connection with the IPO, rather than on a project-by-project basis. As a result of this indemnity, the Partnership received $3.9 million as an indemnity payment from SunPower for a test energy shortfall associated with the Quinto Project. On January 26, 2016, March 31, 2016 and April 1, 2016, in connection with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, Kingbird Acquisition and Hooper Acquisition, respectively, the Original Omnibus Agreement was amended to update the schedules thereto to include the solar power systems held indirectly by the Kern Class B Partnership at the closing of the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project, respectively, for all purposes, except for certain tax indemnities which are included in the Kern Purchase Agreement, Kingbird Purchase Agreement and Hooper Purchase Agreement. On April 6, 2016, the Partnership amended and restated the Original Omnibus Agreement (as amended and restated, the "Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement") with its Sponsors, the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings (i) to expand each sponsor's tax equity indemnification obligations (as further discussed below), (ii) to provide that the sponsors' obligation to cover costs required to achieve commercial operation (as further discussed below) will be reduced to the extent OpCo and its affiliates receive alternate funds that are contemplated to be used to pay project expenses, and such funds are applied accordingly, and (iii) to integrate changes from prior amendments to the Original Omnibus Agreement disclosed above. The material provisions of the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement are as follows: (a) each Sponsor was granted an exclusive right to perform certain services not otherwise covered by an O&amp;M agreement or an AMA on behalf of the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (b) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that has not achieved commercial operation, the Sponsor who contributed such project will pay to OpCo all costs required to complete such project, subject to certain exclusions; (c) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that did not achieve commercial operation as of the closing of the IPO, the Sponsor who contributed such project will pay to OpCo certain liquidated damages in the event such project fails to achieve operability pursuant to an agreed schedule; (d) with respect to the Quinto Project and the North Star Project, the Sponsor who contributed such project will pay to OpCo the difference, if any, between the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of such sponsor's project at the time of contribution and the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received given the actual amount of upgrade costs incurred in respect of such project; (e) certain undertakings on the part of each Sponsor's affiliates who act as a manager of any Project Entity or who provide asset management, construction, operating and maintenance and other services to the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (f) to the extent a Sponsor continues to post credit support on behalf of a Project Entity after it has been contributed to OpCo, OpCo agreed to reimburse such Sponsor upon any demand or draw under such credit support, and the Sponsor agreed to maintain such support pursuant to the applicable underlying contractual or regulatory requirements; (g) each Sponsor agreed to indemnify OpCo for any costs it incurs with respect to certain tax-related events and events in connection with tax equity financing arrangements; and (h) the parties agreed to a mutual undertaking regarding confidentiality and use of names, trademarks, trade names and other insignias. Upon the execution of the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement, the tax indemnities included in the Kern Purchase Agreement, the Kingbird Purchase Agreement and the Hooper Purchase Agreement automatically terminated . On July 1, 2016 and September 9, 2016, in connection with the Macy's Maryland Acquisition and the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition, respectively, the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement was amended to update the schedules thereto to include the Macy's Maryland Project and the solar power systems held indirectly by the Kern Class B Partnership at the closing of the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition for all purposes. 34 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Promissory Note On November 25, 2015, OpCo, issued a Promissory Note to First Solar in the principal amount of $2.0 million (the "Note"), in exchange for First Solar's loan of such amount to OpCo. Upon the receipt of certain payments by the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity from SDG&amp;E under the power purchase agreement between the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity and SDG&amp;E, which had been previously withheld pending completion of an administrative requirement (each, a "Specified Payment"), OpCo is obligated to repay a portion of the principal amount of the Note equal to such Specified Payment and the unpaid balance of all interest accrued under the Note to and including the date of such repayment. Interest will accrue at a rate of 1% on the portion of the principal of the Note equal to the amount of each Specified Payment from the date SDG&amp;E remits such payment to the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity through the date that OpCo repays such amount to First Solar as described above. OpCo is permitted to prepay the Note at any time without penalty or premium. Purchase and Sale Agreements Prior to the closing of the IPO, each of (i) SSCA XIII Holding Company, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of OpCo and the holder of the Quinto Project Entity ("Quinto Holdings"), (ii) SSCA XXXI Holding Company, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of OpCo and the indirect holder of the RPU Project Entity ("RPU Holdings"), and (iii) SunPower Commercial Holding Company I, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of OpCo and the holder of the UC Davis Project Entity and the Macy's California Project Entities ("C&amp;I Holdings," and together with Quinto Holdings and RPU Holdings, the "SP Holding Companies"), entered into purchase and sale agreements (collectively, the "PSAs") with affiliates of SunPower in connection with SunPower's contribution of the SP Holding Companies to OpCo, and also entered into certain tax equity financing arrangements with third party investors to finance the purchases of the SP Holding Companies. Pursuant to the PSAs, the purchase prices were paid in installments, which were made when the projects met certain construction milestones, with final installment payments due upon COD. Since all of these projects have attained COD, there are no purchase price payments remaining. On January 26, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement with SunPower pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project, as further described above in "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions." Effective January 26, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership. Pursuant to the Kern Purchase Agreement, the purchase price for the Kern Project will be paid by OpCo when each phase of the project reaches "mechanical completion." In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a specified distribution waterfall. Purchase price payments of up to approximately $31.2 million will be funded by the tax equity investor's capital contributions, of which $0.9 million and $1.8 million was paid on January 22, 2016 and September 9, 2016, respectively, and the remaining balance of up to $28.5 million will be made when the Kern Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kingbird Purchase Agreement with First Solar, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Kingbird Project, as further described above in "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions." Effective March 31, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC from First Solar. FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC holds the class B limited liability company interests of Kingbird Solar, LLC. The Kingbird Project Entities are direct subsidiaries of Kingbird Solar, LLC, and OpCo holds a controlling interest in the Kingbird Solar, LLC effective March 31, 2016. Pursuant to the Kingbird Purchase Agreement, the $60.0 million purchase price due from OpCo to acquire an interest in the Kingbird Project was paid in installments with $42.9 million in cash paid to First Solar on March 31, 2016 and a $17.1 million contribution to FSAM Kingbird Solar Holdings, LLC on May 31, 2016 which was subsequently paid to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining balance due under the Kingbird Project's EPC contract. In addition, Kingbird Solar, LLC entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kingbird Project pursuant to a specified distribution waterfall. The tax equity investor made capital contributions to fund purchase price payments of approximately $11.7 million on February 26, 2016 and $46.8 million on May 31, 2016, which were made when the Kingbird Project's phases met certain construction milestones and were transferred to an affiliate of First Solar for the remaining purchase price payments. Since the Kingbird Project has attained COD as of May 31, 2016 there are no purchase price payments remaining. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Hooper Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Hooper Project, as further described above in "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions." Effective April 1, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the 35 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Hooper Class B Partnership for a cash purchase price of $53.5 million. Since the Hooper Project attained COD prior to the acquisition date there are no purchase price payments remaining. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 A cquisitions" for further details. On June 29, 2016, OpCo entered into the Macy's Maryland Purchase Agreement with SunPower pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Macy's Maryland Project, as further described above in "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions." Effective July 1, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership. Pursuant to the Macy's Maryland Purchase Agreement, the $12.0 million purchase price due from OpCo to acquire an interest in the Macy's Maryland Project was contributed to Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership, the acquired company, on July 1, 2016 of which $6.4 million was subsequently paid to SunPower and the $5.6 million remaining balance was paid to SunPower on September 21, 2016 when the Macy's Maryland Project met certain construction milestones. In addition, a subsidiary of the Macy's Maryland Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Macy's Maryland Project pursuant to a specified distribution waterfall. Purchase price payments of $8.9 million will be funded by the tax equity investor's capital contributions, of which $0.6 million and $3.3 million was paid on May 6, 2016 and September 21, 2016, respectively, and the remaining balance of $5.0 million will be made when the Macy's Maryland Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments . On September 20, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Agreement with SunPower and SunPower AssetCo, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunPower, to acquire a 49% interest in the Henrietta Project for $134.0 million in cash. Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further details. First Solar ROFO Agreement On March 28, 2016 and June 28, 2016, OpCo entered into an Amendment and Waiver to Right of First Offer Agreement ("Waiver No. 1") and into an Amendment and Waiver No. 2 to the First Solar ROFO Agreement ("Waiver No. 2") with First Solar. Pursuant to Waiver No. 1 and Waiver No. 2, OpCo waived certain of its rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement, dated as of June 24, 2015, between OpCo and First Solar, and First Solar and OpCo agreed to amend certain provisions of the First Solar ROFO Agreement. Pursuant to the First Solar ROFO Agreement, First Solar previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 300 MW Stateline facility in San Bernardino County, California ("Stateline") and the 250 MW Moapa solar generation project in Clark County, Nevada ("Moapa"). Pursuant to Waiver No. 1 and Waiver No. 2, OpCo waived its rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement with respect to 24% of the aggregate interest in Stateline and 100% of the aggregate interest in Moapa, respectively. Concurrently with Waiver No. 1, OpCo's rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement were expanded to cover First Solar's 100 MW Switch Station 1 and 79-MW Switch Station 2 facilities in Clark County, Nevada (collectively, "Switch Station"), which had not previously been subject to the First Solar ROFO Agreement. Additionally, OpCo and First Solar agreed to impose certain limitations on First Solar's right to offer projects to OpCo under the First Solar ROFO Agreement (each, a "ROFO Offer"). These limitations include commitments by First Solar (i) to not make ROFO Offers in respect of Switch Station or Stateline before February 1, 2017 and October 1, 2016, respectively, and (ii) during the period between October 1, 2016 and December 31, 2016, to limit all ROFO Offers in respect of Stateline to either (A) an offer for 50% of First Solar's remaining indirect interest or (B) an offer pursuant to which OpCo may elect to purchase either 50% or 100% of First Solar's remaining indirect interest. Concurrently with Waiver No. 2, OpCo's rights under the First Solar ROFO Agreement were expanded to cover First Solar's 130 MW California Flats and 150 MW California Flats facilities in Monterey County, California, which had not previously been subject to the First Solar ROFO Agreement. SunPower ROFO Agreement On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into an amendment and waiver to the Right of First Offer Agreement with SunPower. Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further details. Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement The Maryland Solar Project Entity has leased the Maryland Solar Project to an affiliate of First Solar. Under the arrangement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The lease agreement will expire on December 31, 2019. 36 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Operating Expense Allocations The Predecessor's condensed carve-out financial statements include allocations of certain SunPower operating expenses. The allocations include: (i) charges that were incurred by SunPower that were specifically identified as attributable to the Predecessor; and (ii) an allocation of applicable SunPower operating expenses based on the proportional level of effort attributable to the operation of the Predecessor's portfolio of solar power systems leased to residential homeowners and projects under construction. These expenses include legal, accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, insurance, employee benefit costs, human resources, procurement and other corporate services and infrastructure costs. The allocation of applicable SunPower operating expenses was principally based on management's estimate of the proportional level of effort devoted by corporate resources. The amounts allocated to the Predecessor related to SunPower operating expenses were $0.8 million and $4.8 million for the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively, and are disclosed as SG&amp;A expenses on the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. Note 13. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal rate of 35% primarily due to the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, a permanent difference between the amount recognized as deductible for U.S. GAAP and tax purposes related to board of director share-based compensation, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. The Partnership's financial reporting year-end is November 30 while its tax year-end is December 31. The Partnership has elected to base the tax provision on the financial reporting year; therefore, since the 2016 financial reporting year is December 1, 2015 through November 30, 2016, the taxable income (loss) included in the 2016 tax provision is for the tax year ended December 31, 2015. The provision accrued at the financial reporting year-end will be a discrete period computation, and the tax credits and permanent differences recognized in that accrual will be those generated between the tax year-end date and the financial reporting year-end date. Since 2015 is the Partnership's year of formation, any amounts recorded for income tax provision (benefit) following the IPO primarily represent deferred income taxes being provided on the net income before taxes of OpCo, a non-taxable partnership, which is allocated to the Partnership. The Predecessor's loss for the period from December 28, 2014 to the date of the IPO was approximately $20.1 million or $7.0 million tax-effected. Although organized as a limited partnership under state law, the Partnership elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Partnership is subject to U.S. federal income taxes at regular corporate rates on its net taxable income, and distributions it makes to holders of its Class A shares will be taxable as ordinary dividend income to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined on the basis of the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Partnership recognizes deferred tax assets to the extent that it believes these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, the Partnership considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. If the Partnership determines that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, it would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would reduce the provision for income taxes. The Partnership records uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 740 - Income Taxes on the basis of a two-step process whereby (1) it determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position and (2) for those tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the Partnership recognizes the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Note 14. Segment Information The Partnership manages its Portfolio as one segment that operates a portfolio of solar energy generation systems. It operates as a single reportable segment based on the "management" approach. 37 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued All operating revenues for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and three and eight months ende d August 31, 2015 were from customers located in the United States and over 90% of the Partnership's total revenue for all periods was comprised of lease revenue. Operating revenues from one customer, First Solar, as lessee of the Maryland Solar Project, a ccounted for less than 10% of total operating revenues for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, compared to 32% and 15% in the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively. Long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment, n et, were located in the United States. Note 15. Subsequent Events On September 9, 2016, OpCo paid approximately $9.2 million with cash on hand in connection with the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition. The Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition qualifies as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets disclosed in the following table is based on the preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests as of the acquisition date, and is subject to change as the Partnership obtains additional information for its estimates during the respective measurement period . Pro forma results of operations for the acquisition have not been presented as the impact of the acquisition is not material to the Partnership's consolidated results of operations for the current or prior periods. The results of operations of the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets will be included in the Partnership's consolidated results of operations beginning September 9, 2016. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations" for more details . On September 28, 2016, the Kern Purchase Agreement was amended pursuant to which the aggregate nameplate capacity of the Kern Project increased by up to 1 MW and OpCo's aggregate purchase price for the acquisition increased by up to $1.6 million. On September 19, 2016, the board of directors of our general partner declared a cash distribution for its Class A shares of $0.2406 per share for the third quarter of 2016. The board of directors declared a corresponding cash distribution for OpCo's common and subordinated units, which includes all common and subordinated units held by First Solar and SunPower. The third quarter distribution will be paid on October 14, 2016 to shareholders and unitholders of record as of October 3, 2016. On September 20, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Agreement with SunPower and SunPower AssetCo, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunPower, to acquire a 49% interest in the Henrietta Project for $134.0 million in cash. A subsidiary of Southern Company owns the other 51% of the Henrietta Project and controls the governing board of the project. The Henrietta Acquisition closed on September 29, 2016 and OpCo funded the purchase price with a combination of net proceeds of the Public Offering, cash on hand and drawings under OpCo's revolving credit facility. On September 28, 2016, the Partnership sold 8,050,000 Class A shares in the Public Offering for net proceeds of $113.7 million ($117.9 million gross proceeds, or $14.65 per Class A share, less $3.5 million of underwriting discount and $0.7 million of transaction fees). On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit facility, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million. The Joinder Agreement also amends OpCo's credit facility to, among other things, (i) permit OpCo to incur up to $50.0 million in subordinated indebtedness from First Solar or its affiliate to pay a portion of the purchase price for the potential acquisition of an interest in a solar energy project located in San Bernardino County, California, that has a nameplate capacity of 300 MW (the "Stateline Project"), and (ii) increase OpCo's maximum debt-to-cash-flow ratio (as more fully defined in the OpCo's credit facility) in respect of the fiscal quarters ending November 30, 2016 through November 30, 2017 from 5.50:1.00 to 6.00:1.00, and for all fiscal quarters thereafter from 5.00:1.00 to 5.50:1.00 (except that the prior thresholds will continue to apply under certain circumstances). All other existing terms of OpCo's senior secured credit facility remain unchanged. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into an amendment and waiver to the Right of First Offer Agreement with SunPower (the "SunPower ROFO Waiver"). Pursuant to the SunPower ROFO Agreement, SunPower previously granted to OpCo a right of first 38 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 54 MW Stanford solar generation project in Kern County, California ("Stanford") and the 20 MW IPT Solar Gen solar generation project in the Ishikawa prefecture , Japan ("IPT"). Pursuant to the SunPower ROFO Waiver, OpCo waived its r ights under the SunPower ROFO Agreement with respect to Stanford and IPT. Concurrently, OpCo's rights under the SunPow er ROFO Agreement were expanded to cover SunPower's 100 MW Boulder Solar 1 facility in Clark County, Nevada and SunPower's 42 MW Commercial Portfolio #3 located in various U.S. states, which had not previously been subject to the SunPower ROFO Agreement. 39 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2015 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or forecasts of future events. Words such as "could," "will," "may," "assume," "forecast," "position," "predict," "strategy," "expect," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "project," "budget," "potential" or "continue" and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this report include our expectations of plans, strategies, objectives, growth and anticipated financial and operational performance. Forward-looking statements can be affected by assumptions used or by known or unknown risks or uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statements can be guaranteed. A forward-looking statement may include a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying the forward-looking statement. We believe that we have chosen these assumptions or bases in good faith and that they are reasonable. However, when considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this report and in our 2015 10-K. Those risk factors and other factors noted throughout this report and in the 2015 10-K could cause our actual results to differ materially from those disclosed in any forward-looking statement. You should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the risk factors included in this report and the 2015 10-K to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Please read "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in Part I, Item 1A. of the 2015 10-K. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements except as required by law. Overview Description of Partnership We are a growth-oriented limited partnership formed by First Solar and SunPower, our Sponsors, to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation projects. Our IPO was completed on June 24, 2015, by issuing 20,000,000 Class A shares representing limited partner interests to the public. As of August 31, 2016, we owned a 28.2% limited liability company interest in OpCo as well as a controlling non-economic managing member interest in OpCo and the Sponsors collectively owned 51,000,000 Class B shares in the Partnership, with SunPower and First Solar owning 28,883,075 and 22,116,925 Class B shares, respectively, and together owning a noncontrolling 71.8% limited liability company interest in OpCo. Because we consolidate OpCo, our financial results are shown on a 100% basis and are not adjusted to reflect our Sponsors' noncontrolling limited liability company interest in OpCo. We received $393.8 million of net proceeds from the sale of the Class A shares in the IPO after deducting the underwriting fees and structuring fees (but before offering expenses, which were paid by our Sponsors). We used all of the net proceeds of the IPO to purchase 20,000,000 OpCo common units from OpCo. OpCo used (i) approximately $154.4 million of such net proceeds to make a cash distribution to First Solar, (ii) approximately $201.6 million of such net proceeds to make a cash distribution to SunPower and (iii) approximately $37.8 million of such net proceeds for general purposes, including to fund future acquisition opportunities. On September 28, 2016, we sold in an underwritten registered public offering 8,050,000 Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership (the "Public Offering"), for net proceeds of $113.7 million ($117.9 million gross proceeds, or $14.65 per Class A share, less $3.5 million of underwriting discount and $0.7 million of transaction fees). Our Portfolio As of August 31, 2016, our Portfolio, which we acquired from our Sponsors, consists of interests in 530 MW of solar energy projects. As of August 31 , 2016, we owned interests in eight utility-scale solar energy projects, all of which are operational. These assets represent 88% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. As of August 31, 2016, we owned interests in four commercial and industrial ("C&amp;I") solar energy projects, two of which were operational and two of which was in late-stage construction, and a portfolio of residential DG Solar assets, which represent 12% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. Our Portfolio is located entirely in the United States and consists of utility-scale and C&amp;I assets that sell substantially all of their output under long-term, 40 fixed-price offtake agreements with investment grade offtake counterparties and residential DG Solar assets that are leased under long-term fixed-price offtake agre ements with high credit quality residential customers with FICO scores averaging 765 at the time of the initial contract. As of August 31, 2016, the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 20.6years. The following table provides an overview of the assets that comprise our Portfolio as of August 31, 2016: (1) For the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets (as defined below), commercial operation date ("COD") represents the first date on which all of the solar generation systems within each of the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, respectively, have achieved or are expected to achieve COD. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further details on the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and the Macy's Maryland Project. For the Residential Portfolio, COD represents the first date on which all of the residential systems within the Residential Portfolio have achieved COD. (2) The megawatts ("MW") for the projects in which the Partnership owns less than a 100% interest or in which the Partnership is the lessor under any sale-leaseback financing are shown on a gross basis. (3) Remaining term of offtake agreement is measured from the later of August 31, 2016 or the COD of the applicable project. (4) Remaining term comprised of 2.3 years on a power purchase agreement ("PPA") with the City of Roseville, California, followed by a 25-year PPA with Pacific Gas and Electric Company ("PG&amp;E") starting in 2019. (5) The Kingbird project is subject to two separate PPAs with member cities of the Southern California Public Power Authority. 41 (6) Comprised of the approximately 5,900 solar installations located at home s in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont, that are held by SunPower Residential I, LLC (the "Residential Portfolio Project Entity") and has an aggregate nameplate capacity of 39 MW. (7) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of all of the residential leases, in each case measured from August 31, 2016. 2016 Acquisitions On January 26, 2016, OpCo and SunPower entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement, which was amended on September 28, 2016, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project for aggregate consideration of up to $36.6 million in cash. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kingbird Purchase Agreement with First Solar, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Kingbird Project for aggregate consideration of $60.0 million in cash. On March 31, 2016, OpCo entered into the Hooper Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Hooper Project for aggregate consideration of $53.5 million in cash. On June 29, 2016, OpCo entered into the Macy's Maryland Purchase Agreement with SunPower, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to acquire an interest in the Macy's Maryland Project for aggregate consideration of $12.0 million in cash. On September 20, 2016, OpCo entered into a Contribution Agreement with SunPower and SunPower AssetCo, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunPower, to acquire a 49% interest the Henrietta Project for $134.0 million in cash. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements- Note 2-Business Combinations-2016 Acquisitions" for further information on the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition, the Kingbird Acquisition, the Hooper Acquisition and the Macy's Maryland Acquisition and Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements- Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further information on the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition and the Henrietta Acquisition . For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2015 10-K. How We Generate Revenues Our revenues are a function of the volume of electricity generated and sold by our projects and rental payments under lease agreements. The assets in our Portfolio sell substantially all of their output or are leased under long-term, fixed price offtake agreements with investment grade utility-scale and C&amp;I offtakers, as well as high credit quality residential customers with an average FICO score of 765 at the time of initial contract. As of August 31, 2016, the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 20.6 years, with the offtake agreements of our Utility Project Entities having remaining terms ranging from 16.6 to 27.3 years and our C&amp;I offtake agreements and residential offtake agreements having remaining terms ranging from 16.0 to 20.0 years . Under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each Utility Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements have certain availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, then in some cases the applicable project is required to pay the offtake counterparty a specified damages amount, and in some cases the offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement or reduce the contract quantity. In addition, under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 60 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any . Under the offtake agreements of our C&amp;I Project Entities, each C&amp;I Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Certain of our C&amp;I Project Entities' offtake agreements have availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, the offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement. Under our C&amp;I Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 30 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any . Under our Residential Portfolio Project Entity's offtake agreements, homeowners are obligated to make lease payments to the Residential Portfolio Project Entity on a monthly basis. The customer's monthly payment is fixed based on a calculation that takes into account expected solar energy generation, and certain of our current offtake agreements contain price escalators with an average of a 1% increase annually. Customers are eligible to purchase the leased solar power systems to facilitate the sale or transfer of their home. The agreements also include an early buy-out option at fair market value exercisable in the seventh year that allows customers to purchase the solar power system . 42 How We Evaluate Our Operations Our management uses a variety of financial metrics to analyze our performance. The key financial metrics we evaluate are Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution. Adjusted EBITDA . We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax provision, depreciation, amortization and accretion, including our proportionate share of net interest expense, income taxes and depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method, and share-based compensation and transaction costs incurred for our acquisitions of projects; and excluding the effect of certain other non-cash or non-recurring items that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance such as, but not limited to, mark to market adjustments to the fair value of derivatives related to our interest rate hedges. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. This measurement is not recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to U.S. GAAP measures of performance. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA is net income (loss). The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of financial performance and borrowers' ability to service debt. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is used by our management for internal planning purposes including certain aspects of our consolidated operating budget and capital expenditures. It is also used by investors to assess the ability of our assets to generate sufficient cash flows to make distributions to our Class A shareholders. However, Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital, does not reflect significant interest expense or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our outstanding debt or cash distributions on tax equity, does not reflect payments made or future requirements for income taxes, and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss) or any other performance measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of Adjusted EBITDA are not necessarily comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income (loss). Cash Available for Distribution. We use cash available for distribution, which we define as Adjusted EBITDA less equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, cash interest paid, cash income taxes paid, maintenance capital expenditures, cash distributions to noncontrolling interests and principal amortization of indebtedness plus cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates, indemnity payments of Sponsors, test electricity generation and cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases and state and local rebates. Our cash flow is generated from distributions we receive from OpCo each quarter. OpCo's cash flow is generated primarily from distributions from the Project Entities. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our Class A shareholders depends primarily on the ability of the Project Entities to make cash distributions to OpCo and the ability of OpCo to make cash distributions to its unitholders. We believe cash available for distribution is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of our ability to make our distribution. In addition, cash available for distribution is used by our management team for determining future acquisitions and managing our growth. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available for distribution is net income (loss). However, cash available for distribution has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not capture the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the operating performance of our projects, does not include changes in operating assets and liabilities and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results from operations. Cash available for distribution is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss) or any other performance measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of cash available for distribution are not necessarily comparable to cash available for distribution as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income (loss) . 43 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution for the three and nine months ended Augus t 31, 2016 and the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015: (1) Represents acquisition-related financial advisory, legal and accounting fees associated with ROFO Project interests purchased and expected to be purchased by us in the future. (2) Represents the allocation of the Predecessor's corporate overhead in selling, general and administrative expenses. (3) Represents the changes in fair value of interest rate swaps that were not designated as cash flow hedges . (4) Represents our proportionate share of net interest expense, depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method . (5) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates represents the earnings from the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project and the Lost Hills Blackwell Project and is included on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations . 44 (6) Represents cash interest payments related to our term loan and revolving credit facilities post-IPO. The interest payments for th e Quinto Credit Facility on the Predecessor's combined carve-out financial statements were excluded as they were funded by one of our Sponsors . (7) Cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates represent the cash received by OpCo with respect to its 49% interest in the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project and the Lost Hills Blackwell Project . (8) State and local rebates represent cash received from state or local governments for owning certain solar power systems. The receipt of state and local rebates is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue. (9) Cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases, net, represent gross rental cash receipts for sales-type leases, less sales-type revenue and lease interest income that is already reflected in net income (loss) during the period. The corresponding revenue for such leases was recognized in the period in which such lease was placed in service, rather than in the period in which the rental payment was received, due to the characterization of these leases under U.S. GAAP. (10) Represents indemnity payments from the Sponsors owed to OpCo in accordance with the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12. Related Parties". (11) Test electricity generation represents the sale of electricity that was generated prior to COD by the Kingbird Project. Solar systems may begin generating electricity prior to COD as a result of the installation and interconnection of individual solar modules, which occurs over time during the construction and commission period. The sale of test electricity generation is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue prior to COD, even though it generates cash for the related Project Entity. Items Affecting the Comparability of Our Financial Results Our future results of operations will not be comparable to our historical results of operations for the reasons described below. Formation Transactions. At the closing of our IPO, we acquired the IPO First Solar Project Entities, which were not included in the results of the Predecessor. Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the financial condition and results of operations of the IPO First Solar Project Entities since June 24, 2015, the date we completed our IPO. Results of operations of the Predecessor mainly relate to our Residential Portfolio, which represents less than 10% of the assets in our Portfolio. Prior to the IPO on June 24, 2015, none of the Predecessor's Utility and C&I Projects had commenced operation and the First Solar Projects were not included in the Predecessor's results of operations . Selling, General and Administrative Expense . The Predecessor's historical combined carve-out financial statements included SG&A expenses that have historically included direct charges for certain overhead and shared services expenses allocated by SunPower. Allocations for SG&A services included such items as information technology, legal, human resources and other financial and administrative services. These expenses were charged or allocated to the Predecessor based on management's estimate of proportional use. Under the Management Services Agreements, which were amended in August 2015, we pay annual fees of $1.7 million to our Sponsors for general and administrative services. These annual management fees are subject to annual adjustment to reflect the cost to provide SG&A services to us. In addition, our SG&A expenses also include the fees we pay to our Sponsors pursuant to AMAs . Accounting for Joint Ventures . The Predecessor's historical combined carve-out financial statements do not include equity in earnings from any minority-owned joint ventures. As of August 31, 2016, OpCo owned a 49% interest in the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project and the Lost Hills Blackwell Project; however, as these interests were previously owned by First Solar, they are not included in the Predecessor's combined carve-out financial statements.The results of operations of joint ventures in which OpCo owns a meaningful noncontrolling interest are not consolidated in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and instead are represented as earnings from equity investments . Financing. The Predecessor's historical combined carve-out financial statements reflect indebtedness for the Quinto Project, which was paid off in connection with the closing of our IPO, and two residential financing agreements with third-party investors, both of which have been terminated. On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million senior secured credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. As of November 30, 2015, the full amount of the $300.0 million term loan facility and approximately $48.8 million of letters of credit under our revolving credit facility were outstanding. We used the proceeds of the $300.0 million term loan facility to pay distributions to our Sponsors . On March 30, 2016, in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition, OpCo drew down $40.0 million from its revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from its delayed draw term loan facility. As of August 31, 2016, the full amount of the $300.0 million borrowed under the term loan facility, the full amount of the $25.0 million borrowed under the delayed 45 draw term loan facility, $40.0 million bor rowed under the revolving credit facility, and approximately $58.6 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. The remaining portion of the revolving credit facility was undrawn . Expiration of Section 1603 Cash Grant Program . The Predecessor's combined carve-out financial statements reflect the effect of the federal Section1603 cash grant program. This program has expired and we no longer benefit from these cash grants . Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement . The Maryland Solar Project Entity has leased the Maryland Solar Project to an affiliate of First Solar, with the lease term expiring on December 31, 2019. Under the arrangement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant . Change in Fiscal Year. On June 24, 2015, in connection with the closing of the IPO, the Partnership amended the Partnership Agreement to include a change in the fiscal year to November 30. The third quarter of the Partnership's fiscal 2016 includes the period from June 1, 2016 to August 31, 2016, and the corresponding third quarter of the Partnership's fiscal 2015 includes the period from June 1, 2015 to August 31, 2015, which are consistent with the Partnership's November 30 fiscal year end. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements cover the period from December 1, 2015 to August31, 2016, representing the entire nine-month period of the Partnership's first, second and third quarters of fiscal year 2016. The prior year's comparable eight-month period covers the period from December 29, 2014 through August 31, 2015, representing the first eight months of the Partnership's recently adopted fiscal year. As a result of the change in the Partnership's fiscal year end, the quarterly periods of its newly adopted fiscal year do not coincide with the historical quarterly periods previously reported by the Predecessor. Financial information for the nine months ended August 31, 2015 has not been included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the following reasons: (i) the eight months ended August 31, 2015 provide as meaningful a comparison to the nine months ended August 31, 2016 as would the nine months ended August 31, 2015; (ii) the Partnership believes that there are no significant factors, seasonal or otherwise, that would impact the comparability of information if the results for the nine months ended August 31, 2015 were presented in lieu of results for the eight months ended August 31, 2015; and (iii) it was not practicable or cost justified to prepare this information. Significant Factors and Trends Affecting Our Business The assets in our Portfolio sell substantially all of their output or are leased pursuant to long-term, fixed price offtake agreements. We believe these long-term agreements substantially mitigate volatility in our cash flows. Over time, our results of operations and our ability to grow our business could be impacted by a number of factors and trends that affect our industry generally, including the development of our ROFO Projects and the other projects we may acquire in the future . Increasing Demand for Solar Energy Global energy demand is increasing due to economic development and population growth. The U.S. Energy Information Administration projects OECD electricity generation to increase 34% between 2014 and 2040, requiring an increase in capacity of more than 600 GW of electricity generation, including through solar energy projects. With exposure to volatile fossil fuel costs, increasing concern about carbon emissions and a variety of other factors, customers are seeking alternatives to traditional sources of electricity generation. We expect the coal and nuclear energy segments will continue to face regulatory and economic headwinds. As a form of electricity generation that is not dependent on fossil fuels, does not produce greenhouse gas emissions and whose costs are falling, solar energy is well-positioned to continue to capture an increasing share of this new build capacity. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from this increased demand for solar energy . Government Incentives Our Sponsors benefit from certain U.S. government incentives designed to promote the development and use of solar energy. These incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, investment tax credits ("ITCs"), Renewable Portfolio Standards ("RPS") programs and net metering policies. These incentives make the development of solar energy projects more competitive by providing tax credits and accelerated depreciation for a portion of the development and construction costs, decreasing the costs associated with developing and building such projects. In addition, these incentives create demand for renewable energy assets through RPS programs and the reduction or removal of these incentives may diminish the market for future solar energy offtake agreements and reduce the ability for solar developers to compete for future solar energy offtake agreements. A loss or reduction in such incentives could decrease the attractiveness of solar energy projects to developers, including our Sponsors, which could reduce our acquisition opportunities. For example, the ITC, a federal income tax credit for 30% of eligible basis, is scheduled to fall to 26% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2020, 22% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 46 2021, and 10% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2022 or thereaf ter or are placed into service on or after January 1, 2024. For more information about the risks associated with these government incentives, please read Part I, Item1A. "Risk Factors-Government regulations providing incentives and subsidies for solar ene rgy could change at any time and such changes may negatively impact our growth strategy" in the 2015 10-K . The projects in our Portfolio are generally unaffected by the trends discussed above, given that all of the electricity to be generated by our projects are sold under fixed-price offtake agreements, which, as of August 31, 2016, have a weighted average remaining life of approximately 20.6 years. In addition, our near-term growth strategy is also largely insulated from the trends discussed above. We expect that most of our short-term growth will come from opportunities to acquire the ROFO Projects, all of which will have executed power sale agreements . Critical Accounting Policies &amp; Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related footnotes. In preparing these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, we have made our best estimates of certain amounts included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Application of accounting policies and estimates, however, involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. In arriving at our critical accounting estimates, factors we consider include how accurate the estimate or assumptions have been in the past, how much the estimate or assumptions have changed and how reasonably likely such change may have a material impact. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note 1 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since November 30, 2015. 47 Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended August 31, 2016 Compared to Three and Eight Months Ended August 31, 2015 Revenues Over 90% of our operating revenues for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015 were comprised of lease revenue from our utility-scale assets, C&amp;I assets and residential portfolio. The Partnership's only revenue stream not from the leasing of solar power systems is from performance based incentives ("PBI") rebates. All revenues for the periods presented were generated in the United States. Residential systems are leased under lease agreements which are classified for accounting purposes either as sales-type leases or operating leases. As all the leases owned by the Predecessor have been placed into service prior to fiscal 2015, all revenue related to 48 the net present value of the minimum lease payments for sales-type leases has been recognized as of December 28, 2014. Accordingly, other than interest revenue, we had no sales-type lease revenue on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 and the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015. For those residential leases classified as sales-type leases, the net present value of the minimum lease payments, net of executory costs, is recognized as revenue when the leased asset is placed in service. Executory costs represent estimated lease operation and maintenance costs, including insurance, to be paid by the lessor, including any profit thereon. This net present value is inclusive of certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates, described below, defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments. The difference between the net amount and the gross amount of a sales-type lease is amortized as revenue over the lease term using the interest method. Revenue from executory costs is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. For those residential leases classified as operating leases, revenue associated with renting the solar power system and related executory costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. We do not record certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates. Previously, certain of these fixed and determinable state or local rebates, described below, defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments, were recorded as deferred revenue in the Predecessor's balance sheets when the lease was placed in service and amortized to revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. State or local rebates that are fixed and determinable are recognized when the related solar power system is placed in service. PBI rebates are not fixed and determinable, since they relate to the generation of electricity from the leased solar power system, and are recognized as revenue upon cash receipt for both sales-type leases and operating leases. Total revenues increased by $23.0 million, or 749%, during the three months ended August 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended August 31, 2015, and increased by $40.1 million, or 605%, during the nine months ended August 31, 2016 as compared to the eight months ended August 31, 2015, due to the commencement of operations of the IPO Project Entities as of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and revenues generated from the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of Operations : Cost of operations primarily includes expenses related to O&M agreements and land lease expenses post IPO. The Predecessor's cost of operations additionally includes costs related to system output performance warranty and residential lease system repairs accrual and reserves for upfront rebate receivables. The increase of $1.9 million, or 2,541%, for the three months ended August 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended August 31, 2015 is primarily driven by increased expenses for O&amp;M, electricity and property insurance associated with operating the solar power systems due to the commencement of operations of the IPO Project Entities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. The increase of $2.6 million, or 107%, for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 as compared to the eight months ended August 31, 2015 is primarily driven by: (i) increased expenses associated with operating the solar power systems due to the commencement of operations of the IPO Project Entities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2016; and (ii) the reclassification of Quinto land lease expense from SG&amp;A expense by 49 the Predecessor prior to IPO to cost of operations post-IPO. These increases were partially offset by the Predecessor's expenses during the first quarter of 2015 that were not recorded in 2016, r elating to: (i) a $1.3 million reserve for aged rebates receivable; (ii) a $0.5 million accrual for system output performance warranty and residential lease system repairs; and (iii) a $0.2 million accrual for a performance guarantee settlement . Cost of Operations-SunPower, prior to IPO : Cost of operations-SunPower, prior to IPO, represents executory costs that were allocated to the Predecessor by SunPower. Costs incurred for these services were zero for both the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 compared to $0.1 million and $0.5 million for the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative : SG&A expense includes (i) post-IPO operating expenses such as audit, legal, insurance, independent board of directors and fees under the AMAs and MSAs with our Sponsors; (ii) charges that were incurred by SunPower that were specifically identified as attributable to the Predecessor; and (iii) an allocation of SunPower operating expenses based on the proportional level of effort attributable to the operation of the Predecessor's portfolio of solar power systems leased to residential homeowners and solar energy projects under construction. The allocated SunPower operating expenses include asset management, legal, accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, insurance, employee benefit costs, human resources, procurement, and other corporate services and infrastructure costs . The decrease of $0.7 million, or 27%, for the three months ended August 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended August 31, 2015 was due to higher SG&amp;A expenses in the three months ended August 31, 2015 primarily driven by: (i) $0.8 million allocated SunPower operating expenses based on the proportional level of effort attributable to the Quinto, RPU, UC Davis and Macy's California Projects under construction, of which the Quinto Project was approximately 95.8% complete as of August 31, 2015; and (ii) $0.2 million of allocated costs incurred by SunPower related to our IPO ; partially offset by $0.3 million higher SG&amp;A expenses in the three months ended August 31, 2016 comprised of normal operating expenditures, including fees associated with the MSAs and AMAs as well as audit, consulting, legal, insurance and independent board of director services . The decrease of $4.0 million, or 44%, for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 as compared to the eight months ended August 31, 2015 was due to higher SG&amp;A expenses in the eight months ended August 31, 2015 primarily driven by: (i) $4.8 million allocated SunPower operating expenses based on the proportional level of effort attributable to the Quinto, RPU, UC Davis and Macy's California Projects under construction; (ii) $1.6 million of allocated costs incurred by SunPower related to our IPO; and (iii) $0.9 million of Quinto land lease expenses ; partially offset by $3.3 million higher SG&amp;A expenses in the nine months ended August 31, 2016 comprised of normal operating expenditures including fees associated with the MSAs and AMAs as well as audit, consulting, legal, insurance and independent board of director services. Depreciation: Depreciation expense reflects costs associated with depreciation of our solar power system assets that have been placed in service. The increase of $5.1 million, or 438%, for the three months ended August 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended August 31, 2015, and the increase of $14.0 million, or 588%, for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 as compared to the eight months ended August 31, 2015, is a result of the commencement of operations of the IPO Project Entities in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 and the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Acquisition-Related Transaction Costs: Acquisition-related transactions costs represent legal and consulting fees incurred in connection with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition in January 2016, the Kingbird Acquisition in March 2016, the Hooper Acquisition in April 2016 and the Macy's Maryland Acquisition in July 2016. Other Expense, net 50 Interest Expense: On June 5, 2015, we entered into a $525.0 million senior secured credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolvi ng credit facility. We borrowed $300.0 million under the term loan facility on June 5, 2015 to pay distributions to our Sponsors. On March 30, 2016, we drew down $40.0million from our revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from our delayed draw term loan facility to pay for the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition. Loans outstanding under the senior secured credit facility bear interest and the unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility bear commitme nt fees which are cash interest expenses. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 7- Debt and Financing Obligations" for rates. The debt discount and incremental debt issuance c osts associated with these borrowings are non-cash interest expenses. The interest incurred related to our projects that are under construction is not reflected as an expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations as it is capital ized to construction-in-progress until the solar power system is ready for its intended use. Cash interest expense in the nine months ended August 31, 2016 relates to the term loan facility, delayed draw term loan facility, revolver fees and letter of credit fees. Cash interest expense in the eight months ended August 31, 2015 relates to the term loan facility and letter of credit fees as well as financing fees due to two third-party investors for undrawn commitment of the financing arrangements described below. Non-cash interest expense in the nine months ended August 31, 2016 relates to debt issuance costs associated with our term loan facility, delayed draw term loan facility and revolver. Non-cash interest expense in the eight months ended August 31, 2015 relates to our term loan facility and two financing arrangements under which leased solar power systems were financed by two third-party investors. The Predecessor terminated one residential lease financing obligation in January 2015 and the remaining obligation in May 2015. Under the terms of these financing arrangements, the investors provided upfront payments to the Predecessor, for which the Predecessor recognized as a financing obligation that was reduced over the specified term of the arrangement as customer receivables and federal cash grants were received by the third-party investors. Non-cash interest expense was recognized on the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations using the effective interest rate method calculated at a rate of approximately 14-15% during the first half of fiscal 2015. Interest expense for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 included non-cash interest expense of $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively, and cash interest expense of $3.1 million and $8.7 million, respectively. Interest expense for the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015 included non-cash interest expense of $0.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively, and cash interest expense of $0.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Interest Income: Interest income was $0.3 million and $0.9 million for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, respectively, and $0.2 million and $1.2 million for the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, respectively. Interest income represents the accrued interest on reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project and the Kingbird Project. These costs plus accrued interest are reimbursable by the utility company over five years when the projects achieve commercial operation. Other Expense (Income): Other income in the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 primarily relates to an unrealized gain on interest rate swap associated with our term loan facility of $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively, further described below. Other expense for the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015 included: (i) a $0.8 million unrealized loss on interest rate swap associated with our term loan facility further described below; (ii) a loss on cash flow hedges associated with Predecessor of $2.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively, further described below; and (iii) a loss on termination of financing obligation of zero and $6.5 million, respectively, further described below. Gain (loss) on interest rate swap associated with term loan facility: On July 17, 2015, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to economically hedge the cash flows on our term loan facility. The changes in fair value are recorded in other expense (income), net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations as these hedges are not accounted for under hedge accounting. During the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, we recorded an unrealized gain of $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively, for the mark-to-market valuation adjustment of interest rate swap agreements, as compared to the unrealized loss of $0.8 million recorded in both the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015. 51 Loss on cash flow hedges associated with Predecessor : The Predecessor entered into in terest rate swap agreements, designated as cash flow hedges, in the fourth quarter of the year ended December 28, 2014 on the outstanding and forecasted future borrowings under the Quinto Credit Facility to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. T he Predecessor assessed the effectiveness of these cash flow hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis. If it was determined that a derivative instrument was not highly effective or the transaction was no longer deemed probable of occurring, the Predece ssor discontinued hedge accounting and recognized the ineffective portion in current period earnings. The hedge became ineffective in the first half of fiscal 2015 and the ineffective portion was recognized in earnings at that time. The interest swap was t erminated upon the IPO and the remaining ineffective portion was recognized in earnings. During the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, $2.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively, was reclassified into loss on cash flow hedges within other expen se, net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Loss on termination of financing obligation : On January 30, 2015, the Predecessor entered into an agreement with one of the residential lease financing third-party investors that terminated the financing obligation arrangement. In conjunction with the termination of the arrangement, the Predecessor paid $10.8 million to terminate the $10.1 million outstanding financing obligation. On May 4, 2015, the Predecessor entered into a termination agreement with the remaining third-party investor, paying $29.0 million to terminate the $21.1 million outstanding financing obligation and $1.9 million accrued financing fee. During the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, zero and $6.5 million, respectively, was recognized as a loss on termination within other expense, net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Income Tax Provision Our tax rate is primarily affected by the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. We included the income tax provision related to our equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees in the income tax provision line of the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Our income tax provision post IPO primarily represents deferred federal and state taxes on the net income of OpCo, a non-taxable partnership, that is allocated to the Partnership (exclusive of income tax but after noncontrolling interest). The Predecessor's income tax provision, which was calculated on a separate return basis for the carve-out period, was due to minimum state income taxes. The decrease in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the three months ended August 31, 2016 of 19.4% compared to 22.8% for the three months ended August 31, 2015 is the result of a slower increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates of 32.1% compared to the higher increase in revenue of 749%, partially offset by income before income taxes for the three months ended August 31, 2016 of $12.9 million compared to losses before income taxes of $4.1 million for the three months ended August 31, 2015. The increase in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 of 32.7% compared to 10.7% for the eight months ended August 31, 2015 is the result of an increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates as well as income before income taxes for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 of $10.4 million compared to losses before income taxes of $20.8 million for the eight months ended August 31, 2015. 52 Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Investees Equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees represents our proportionate share of the earnings and losses from SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings and Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings. We own a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings and Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings, and an affiliate of Southern Company, which is not affiliated with us, owns the other 51% ownership interest. The minority membership interests are accounted for as equity method investments. During the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016, we recognized equity in earnings of $8.1 million and $13.5 million, respectively, which represented the entire three and nine month periods in the fiscal year 2016. During both the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015, we recognized equity in earnings of $6.1 million, which represented the period from June 24, 2015 to August 31, 2015. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for the three and nine months ended August 31, 2016 included a net loss of $24.3 million and $112.1 million, respectively, attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, offset by net income of $32.6 million and $97.9 million, respectively, attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for both the three and eight months ended August 31, 2015 included a net loss of $0.7 million attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, offset by net income of $4.4 million attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. We apply the Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value ("HLBV") Method in allocating recorded net loss to each tax equity investor based on the change during the reporting period of the amount of net assets of the entity to which each tax equity investor would be entitled under the governing contractual arrangements in a liquidation scenario. If the redemption value of our redeemable noncontrolling interests exceeds their carrying value after attribution of income (loss) under the HLBV method in any period, we will make an additional attribution of income to our redeemable noncontrolling interests such that their carrying value will at least equal the redemption value. 53 Cash Flows Nine Months Ended August 31, 2016 Compared to Eight Months Ended August 31, 2015 A summary of the sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 was $37.8 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $15.1 million in cash distributions received from equity method investees that were classified in operating activities as returns on the investments; (ii) net income of $8.7 million; (iii) adjustments for non-cash charges of $32.5 million, including $16.3 million depreciation of operating lease assets and solar power systems, $15.3 million deferred income taxes expense, $0.2 million share-based compensation, $0.4 million amortization of debt issuance costs, and $0.3 million bad debt expense related to residential lease customers; (iv) $0.8 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities; and (v) $0.5 million increase in deferred revenue from the Maryland Solar Project. These inflows were partially offset by: (i) adjustments for non-cash income of $14.0 million, including $13.5 million equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees and $0.5 million mark-to-market gain on interest rate swaps; (ii) $4.3 million increase in accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net; and (iii) $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Net cash used in operating activities for the eight months ended August 31, 2015 was $7.3 million and was primarily the result of: (i) a net loss of $15.4 million; (ii) a $6.1 million non-cash adjustment for equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees; and (iii) $4.2 million increase in prepaid and other current assets, related to capitalized expenses incurred by the Predecessor for our IPO. This was partially offset by: (i) non-cash charges of $16.1 million, including a $3.2 million mark-to-market loss on cash flow hedges, $6.5 million loss upon termination of residential financing arrangement, $2.4 million depreciation of operating lease assets and utility solar power systems, $1.3 million reserve for rebates receivable, $1.2 million interest expense for the financing arrangement of residential leased solar power systems prior to termination, $0.7 million charge for deferred income taxes, and $0.8 million unrealized loss on interest rate swaps; (ii) $1.6 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities; (iii) $0.4 million increase in deferred revenue on operating leases; and (iv) $0.2 million decrease in solar power systems to be leased. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 was $122.3 million and was primarily the result of $124.3 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project and the Macy's Maryland Project. These outflows were partially offset by $0.6 million of cash distributions from unconsolidated investees classified in investing activities as returns of the investments, and $1.4 million of net cash provided by purchases of property and equipment, which primarily consists of collections of test energy billings. Net cash used in investing activities for the eight months ended August 31, 2015 was $220.6 million and was primarily the result of $225.2 million related to costs incurred by the Predecessor associated with solar energy projects under construction. These costs were partially offset by $4.7 million of cash distributions from unconsolidated investees. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 was $57.5 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $65.0 million proceeds from issuance of bank loans, net of issuance costs, including $40.0 million from the revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from the delayed draw term loan facility; (ii) $10.0 million in capital contributions from SunPower as an indemnity per the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement for a short-fall associated with reimbursable costs for the Quinto Project network upgrade; and (iii) $0.3 million of cash contributions from tax equity investors. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $13.5 million of cash distributions to our Class A members; (ii) $4.1 million of cash distributions to tax equity investors; and (iii) $0.2 million of equity issuance costs. 54 Net cash provided by financing activities for the eight months ended August 31, 2015 was $271.2 million due to: (i) $393.8 million in proceeds from issuance of Class A shares, net of issuance costs; (ii) $461.2 million in proceeds from issuance of bank loans, net of issuance costs from our term lo an facility as well as a financing arrangement for the Quinto Project; (iii) $337.8 million in capital contributions from SunPower to fund the IPO SunPower Project Entities; and (iv) $7.0 million in cash contributions from noncontrolling interests associat ed with our tax equity financing arrangements. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $371.5 million of cash distribution to SunPower as a Sponsor in connection with the IPO; (ii) $283.7 million of cash distribution to First Solar as a Sponsor in connection with the IPO; (iii) $264.1 million repayment of bank loans to terminate two residential lease financing arrangements prior to the IPO and the Quinto Project at the IPO closing; (iv) $3.2 million of capital distributions to SunPower made by the Predecessor before the IPO; and (v) $6.0 million of cash distribution to SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments of the IPO SunPower Project Entities. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity as of August 31, 2016 was $131.3 million consisting of $29.9 million cash on hand and $101.4 million of available capacity under our five-year revolving credit facility. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into an amendment and joinder agreement (the "Joinder Agreement") under our existing credit facility, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility from $525.0 million to $775.0 million. Sources of Liquidity We expect our ongoing sources of liquidity to include cash on hand, cash generated from operations (excluding cash distributions to minority investors), distributions and dividends from the operations of our equity investments, borrowings under new and existing financing arrangements (the aggregate amount of which may be lower because of our reduced ownership in projects subject to tax equity financing) and the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. We may also incur debt at the project level, which may be limited by the rights of our tax equity investors. We expect that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide for our short-term and long-term liquidity needs. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and other capital requirements, including capital expenditures, as well as make acquisitions, will depend on our future operating performance which, in turn, will be subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. We believe that we will have sufficient borrowings available under our revolving credit facility, liquid assets and cash flows from operations to meet our financial commitments, debt service obligations, contingencies and anticipated required capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, we have an active shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. On September 28, 2016, we sold 8,050,000 Class A shares in the Public Offering pursuant to our active shelf registration statement. Term Loan, Delayed Draw Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million senior secured credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. The delayed draw term loan facility was available to us during the 12-month period following the closing of our IPO. The proceeds of the term loan facility were used to pay fees and expenses, to repay existing indebtedness, to make a distribution to the Sponsors and for general purposes, including to fund acquisition opportunities, while the proceeds of the delayed draw term loan facility are expected to be used for acquisitions. Amounts available under the revolving facility are expected to be used for capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, to provide for ongoing working capital requirements, and for general corporate purposes, with letters of credit issued thereunder to be used for credit support and general corporate purposes. The credit facility will mature in June 2020, five years following the closing of our IPO. As of November 30, 2015, the full amount of the $300.0 million term loan facility and approximately $48.8 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. On March 30, 2016, in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition, OpCo drew down $40.0 million from its revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from its delayed draw term loan facility. As of August 31, 2016, the full amount of the $300.0 million term loan facility, the full amount of the $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility, $40.0 million of the revolving credit facility, and approximately $58.6 million of letters of credit under the revolving credit facility were outstanding. The remaining portion from the revolving credit facility was undrawn. In general, the credit facility contains representations, warranties, covenants (including financial covenants) and defaults that are customary for this type of financing; provided, however, that OpCo is permitted to pay distributions to its unitholders and we are 55 permitted to pay distributions to our shareholders out of available cash so long as no default or event of default under the credit facility has occurred or is continuing at the time of such distribution, or would result therefrom , and OpCo is otherwise in compliance, on a pro forma basis, with the facility's covenants requiring it to maintain its debt to cash flow ratio and debt service coverage ratio (as such financial ratios are described below). Among other things, events of de faults that could result in restrictions on our ability to make such distributions include certain failures to make payments when due under the credit facility, certain defaults under other agreements, breaches of certain covenants and representations unde r the credit facility, commencement of certain insolvency proceedings, the existence of certain judgments or attachments, certain orders of dissolution of loan parties, certain events relating to employee benefit plans, the occurrence of a change of contro l (as more fully described below), certain events relating to the effectiveness and validity of the guaranties and collateral documents in support of the credit facility (as described below) and other credit documents and, under certain circumstances, the termination of the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement or the Quinto PPA. Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a co mmitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. In the future, we may increase our debt to fund our operations or future acquisitions. OpCo's credit facility is secured by a pledge over the equity of OpCo and certain of its domestic subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's domestic subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. OpCo's credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain the following financial ratios: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not more than (a) 5.50 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending August 31, 2016 through May 31, 2017, and (b) 5.00 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of us or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. As of August 31, 2016, we were in compliance with the debt covenants. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended OpCo's credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement, to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. Subject to certain conditions, the credit facility includes conditional borrowing capacity for incremental commitments to increase the term loan facility and revolving credit facility by $250.0 million, with any increase in the revolving facility not to exceed $100.0 million. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit facility, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million. The Joinder Agreement also amends OpCo's credit facility to, among other things, (i) permit OpCo to incur up to $50.0 million in subordinated indebtedness from First Solar or its affiliate to pay a portion of the purchase price for the potential acquisition of an interest in a solar energy project located in San Bernardino County, California, that has a nameplate capacity of 300 MW (the "Stateline Project"), and (ii) increase OpCo's maximum debt-to-cash-flow ratio (as more fully defined in the OpCo's credit facility) in respect of the fiscal quarters ending November 30, 2016 through November 30, 2017 from 5.50:1.00 to 6.00:1.00, and for all fiscal quarters thereafter from 5.00:1.00 to 5.50:1.00 (except that the prior thresholds will continue to apply under certain circumstances). All other existing terms of OpCo's senior secured credit facility remain unchanged. 56 Tax Equity Our projects are, and our future acquisitions are expected to be, subject to two types of tax equity financing. In the first type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. To the extent we want to incur project-level debt at a project in which we co-invest with a tax equity investor, we may be required to obtain the tax equity investor's consent prior to such incurrence. In addition, the amount of debt that could be incurred by an entity in which we have a tax equity co-investor may be further constrained because even if the tax equity investor consents to the incurrence of the debt at the entity or project level, the tax equity investor may not agree to pledge its interest in the project which could reduce the amount that can be borrowed and raise the cost of borrowing by the entity. In the second type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a majority interest in the project. In such agreements, we will only have a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. In most cases, since we are not the majority owner, we will not be able to direct the actions of the entity that owns such asset. As such, we may not be able to incur debt at the entity or project level, without the consent of the majority owner. Uses of Liquidity Our principal requirements for liquidity and capital resources, other than for operating our business, can generally be categorized into the following: (i) debt service obligations; (ii) funding acquisitions, if any; and (iii) cash distributions to shareholders. Generally, once COD is reached, solar energy generation assets do not require significant capital expenditures to maintain operating performance. 57 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of August 31, 2016: (1) Land use commitments primarily relate to a non-cancellable operating lease for the Quinto Project and two operating leases for the Kingbird Project, and are equal to the minimum lease and easement payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which solar power systems are located. (2) Includes $300.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015 (in connection with our IPO) which will mature on or about the fifth anniversary of its issuance, at which point all amounts outstanding under the term loan facility will become due. From August 31, 2016 to August 31, 2018, which is the term of the interest rate swap, the interest payments are estimated based on the fixed swap interest rate of 0.85% plus the 2% margin for the notional amount of $250.0 million. The interest payments for the remaining $50.0 million notional amount through the maturity of the term loan, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 2.52% per annum effective as of August 31, 2016. (3) Includes $25.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and $40.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015 (in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition), which will mature on or about the fifth anniversary of the issuance of the term loan facility, at which point all amounts outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and the revolving credit facility will become due. The interest payments for the $65.0 million notional amount through the maturity date, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 2.52% per annum effective as of August 31, 2016. Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements As of August 31, 2016, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements. 58Item 1. Financial Statements. 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party balances for transactions made with the Sponsors and tax equity investors. Related-party balances recorded within "Prepaid and other current assets" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $0.8 million and $0.9 million as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, respectively. Related-party balances recorded within "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $6.4 million and $19.7 million due to Sponsors as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, respectively, and $1.0 million due to tax equity investors as of both February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016. Related-party balances recorded within "Short-term debt and financing obligations" and "Long-term debt and financing obligations" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $2.2 million and $47.8 million, respectively, as of February 28, 2017, and $2.0 million and zero, respectively, as of November 30, 2016. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 7 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party activities for transactions made with the Sponsors. Related party transactions recorded within "Operating revenues" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $1.3 million for each of the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016. Related party transactions recorded within "Operating costs and expenses" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $2.0 million and $1.4 million for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Equity (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 10 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Description of Business The Partnership 8point3 Energy Partners LP (together with its subsidiaries, the "Partnership") is a limited partnership formed on March 3, 2015 under a master formation agreement by SunPower Corporation ("SunPower") and First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar" and, together with SunPower, the "Sponsors") to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation systems. As of February 28, 2017, 8point3 Energy Partners LP owned a controlling non-economic managing member interest in 8point3 Operating Company, LLC ("OpCo") and a 35.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo, and the Sponsors collectively owned a noncontrolling 64.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo. The following table provides an overview of the assets that comprise the Portfolio as of February 28, 2017: (1) For the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project, and the Kern Project, COD represents the first date on which all of the solar generation systems within each of the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Kern Project, respectively, have achieved or are expected to achieve COD. For the Residential Portfolio, COD represents the first date on which all of the residential systems within the Residential Portfolio have achieved COD. 11 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (2) The MW for the projects in which the Partnership owns less than a 100% interest or in which the Partnership is the lessor under any sale-leaseback financing are shown on a gross basis . Please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2016 10-K for a description of our tax eq uity structures, which such description reflects the Partnership's ownership on a net basis. (3) Remaining term of offtake agreement is measured from the later of February 28, 2017 or the expected COD of the applicable project. (4) Remaining term comprised of 1.8 years on a PPA with the City of Roseville, California, followed by a 25-year PPA with PG&amp;E starting in 2019. (5) The Kingbird Project is subject to two separate PPAs with member cities of the Southern California Public Power Authority. (6) OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project is being effectuated in five phases, with the closing of the first phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 3 MW, having occurred on January 26, 2016, the closing of the second phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 5 MW, having occurred on September 9, 2016, the closing of the third phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 5 MW, having occurred on November 30, 2016, the closing of the fourth phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 3 MW, having closed on February 24, 2017, and the closing of the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets to occur in the future. (7) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of the first four phases of the Kern Project. (8) Comprised of the approximately 5,900 solar installations located at homes in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont, that are held by the Residential Portfolio Project Entity and have an aggregate nameplate capacity of 39 MW. (9) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of all of the residential leases, in each case measured from February 28, 2017. Basis of Presentation and Preparation The direct and indirect contributions of the IPO Project Entities by the Sponsors to OpCo in connection with the IPO resulted in a business combination for accounting purposes with the IPO SunPower Project Entities being considered the acquirer of the interests contributed by First Solar in the IPO First Solar Project Entities. Therefore, the IPO SunPower Project Entities constitute the "Predecessor." As used herein, the term "IPO Project Entities" refers to: the IPO SunPower Project Entities, including: the Macy's California Project Entities, which hold the Macy's California Project; the Quinto Project Entity, which holds the Quinto Project; the RPU Project Entity, which holds the RPU Project; the UC Davis Project Entity, which holds the UC Davis Project; and the Residential Portfolio Project Entity, which holds the Residential Portfolio Project; and the IPO First Solar Project Entities, including: the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, which holds the Lost Hills Project and the Blackwell Project; the Maryland Solar Project Entity, which holds the Maryland Solar Project; the North Star Project Entity, which holds the North Star Project; and the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity, which holds the Solar Gen 2 Project. In connection with the IPO, SunPower contributed a nearly 100% interest in each of the IPO SunPower Project Entities to OpCo, subject, in the case of the Quinto Project, the RPU Project, the UC Davis Project and the Macy's California Project, to the tax equity investor's right to a varying portion of the cash flows from the projects. In connection with the IPO, First Solar directly contributed to OpCo a 100% interest in the Maryland Solar Project Entity and indirectly contributed to OpCo a 49% economic interest in each of the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the North Star Project and the Solar Gen 2 Project. 12 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Since November 30, 2015, the partnership completed six a cquisitions from our Sponsors, four from SunPower and two from First Solar.Four of the acquisitions are treated as business combinations: the Kern Project Entity, which holds the Kern Project; the Kingbird Project Entities, which holds the Kingbird Project; the Hooper Project Entity, which holds the Hooper Project; and the Macy's Maryland Project Entity, which holds the Macy's Maryland Project. Two of the acquisitions are accounted for as equity method investments: the Henrietta Project Entity, which holds the Henrietta Project. OpCo owns a 49% economic interest in the Henrietta Project Entity; and the Stateline Project Entity, which holds the Stateline Project. OpCo owns a 34% economic interest in the Stateline Project Entity. Principles of Consolidation The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and include the accounts of the Partnership, and all of its subsidiaries, as appropriate under consolidation accounting guidelines. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from the audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates in which the Partnership has less than a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All significant inter-entity accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments (consisting of normal, recurring items) necessary to state fairly its financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the accounting policies previously disclosed in Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 1-Description of Business" and "-Note 2-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the 2016 10-K. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year. Management Estimates The preparation of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the assumptions and methodology underlying allowances for doubtful accounts related to accounts receivable and financing receivables; estimates of future cash flows and economic useful lives of property and equipment; the fair value and residual value of leased solar power systems; fair value of financial instruments; fair value of acquired assets and liabilities; valuation of certain accrued liabilities such as accrued system output performance warranty and AROs; and income taxes including the related valuation allowance. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In January 2017, the FASB issued an update to clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is applied prospectively. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In October 2016, the FASB issued an update which amends the guidance on related parties that are under common control. Specifically, this update requires that a single decision maker consider indirect interests held by related parties under common control on a proportionate basis in a manner consistent with its evaluation of indirect interests held through other related parties. That is, the single decision maker does not consider indirect interests held through related parties as equivalent to direct interests in determining whether it meets the economics criterion to be a primary beneficiary. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. 13 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued In October 2016, the FASB is sued an update which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory, such as property and equipment, when such transfer occurs. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and shall be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. Early adop tion is permitted. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In August 2016, the FASB issued an update to the statement of cash flows guidance, which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. One identified cash flow issue relates to distributions received from equity method investees whereby the reporting entity should make an accounting policy election to classify distributions received from equity method investees using either the cumulative earnings approach or the nature of the distribution approach. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and is applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Partnership is evaluating the change in accounting policy from the cumulative earnings approach to the nature of the distribution approach and the impact on its unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and disclosures. In March 2016, the FASB issued an update to the equity method investments guidance, which eliminates the requirement that an entity retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting if an investment qualifies for use of the equity method as a result of an increase in the level of ownership or degree of influence. The update requires that the equity method investor add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2017 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In February 2016, the FASB issued an update to the lease accounting guidance, which requires entities to begin recording assets and liabilities arising from substantially all leases on the balance sheet. The new guidance will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In August 2014, the FASB issued an update to the standards to require management to evaluate whether there are conditions and events that raise substantial doubt about the Partnership's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued, and to provide related disclosures. The Partnership adopted the new guidance beginning on December 1, 2016 and the impact of this standard on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures is not material. In May 2014, the FASB issued a new revenue recognition standard based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The FASB has issued several updates to the standard which (i) clarify the application of the principal versus agent guidance; (ii) clarify the guidance relating to performance obligations and licensing; and (iii) clarify assessment of the collectability criterion, presentation of sales taxes, measurement date for non-cash consideration and completed contracts at transaction. The new revenue recognition standard, amended by the updates, becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is to be applied retrospectively using one of two prescribed methods. Early adoption is permitted. The Partnership is currently evaluating and considering the possibility of early adoption of the new standard effective December 1, 2017. The Partnership's ability to early adopt, potentially using the modified retrospective method, is dependent on process, internal control and system readiness and a complete evaluation of all the disclosures required under the new standard. While the Partnership is continuing to assess all potential impacts of the standard, it currently believes the impact on its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements is not material because over 90% of the Partnership's total revenue for all periods is comprised of lease revenue, which is substantially unchanged under the new standard. Other than as described above, there has been no issued accounting guidance not yet adopted by the Partnership that it believes is material or potentially material to its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements . 14 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 2. Business Combinations Acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that must be completed as of the acquisition date. The judgments made in the context of the purchase price allocation can materially impact the Partnership's future results of operations. The Partnership's purchase price allocations for acquisitions completed through November 30, 2016 are final and not subject to revision. For the acquisition completed during the three months ended February 28, 2017, the valuation is based on the preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests as of the acquisition date, and is subject to change as the Partnership obtains additional information for its estimates during the respective measurement period. Kern Acquisition: On January 26, 2016, OpCo and SunPower entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement, which was amended on September 28, 2016, November 30, 2016 and February 24, 2017, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project. OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project is being effectuated in five phases summarized below: (i) Phase 1(a): On January 26, 2016, 8point3 OpCo Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of OpCo, acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership. Prior to the date of the execution of the Kern Purchase Agreement and in connection with the closing of the tax equity financing for the Kern Project, described below, the Kern Project Entity, an indirect subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership, acquired the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. The initial phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition." (ii) Phase 1(b) : On September 9, 2016, the Kern Project Entity acquired the assets included in the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets from SunPower. The second phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition." (iii) Phase 2(a): On November 30, 2016, the Kern Project Entity acquired the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets from SunPower. The third phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition." (iv) Phase 2(b): On February 24, 2017 , the Kern Project Entity acquired the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets from SunPower. The fourth phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition." (v) Phase 2(c): At a future closing date, the Kern Project Entity will acquire the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets from SunPower. The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition is up to $36.6 million in cash, of which OpCo paid approximately $4.9 million on January 27, 2016 in connection with the closing of the first phase on January 26, 2016, approximately $9.2 million on September 9, 2016 in connection with the closing of the second phase on September 9, 2016, approximately $8.4 million on November 30, 2016 in connection with the closing of the third phase on November 30, 2016 and approximately $6.0 million on February 24, 2017 in connection with the closing of the fourth phase on February 24, 2017. OpCo will pay the remaining balance of up to $8.1 million purchase price at the closing of the fifth phase. In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a monthly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point is achieved. After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase. In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. The tax equity investor will make capital contributions to fund purchase price payments up to approximately $30.0 million, of which $0.9 million, $1.8 million, $1.3 million, $6.7 million and $8.2 million was paid on January 22, 2016, September 9, 2016, November 30, 2016, December 14, 2016 and February 24, 2017, respectively. The remaining capital contribution balance of up to $11.1 million will be made when the Kern Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2016 10-K. 15 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition and the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition qualify as business combinations and the Partnership accounts for the transactions under the acquisition method.The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed an d noncontrolling interests of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets are disclosed in the following table. Valuation methodology: The Partnership utilized the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to value property and equipment for the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets. Key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow method included forecasted pre-tax cash flows, forecasted taxable income and discount rates. All estimates, key assumptions and forecasts were reviewed by the Partnership and the fair value analyses and related valuations represent the conclusions of management. Supplementary Data: The results of operations for the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets have been included in the Partnership's consolidated statements of operations since their respective dates of acquisition. No revenue was generated from the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets in the quarter ended February 28, 2017. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented as the impact of the acquisition on February 24, 2017 is not material to the Partnership's results of operations for the current or prior periods. Additionally, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets became operational after the acquisition date; therefore, would not have had any pro forma results in the prior period. Note 3. Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates On November 11, 2016, OpCo entered into the Stateline Purchase Agreement with First Solar to acquire a 34% interest in the Stateline Project for $329.5 million (the "Stateline Acquisition"). The Stateline Acquisition closed on December 1, 2016 and the Partnership recorded an investment of $329.9 million after consideration of acquisition-related costs. 16 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued As of February 28, 2017, the Partnership owns a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings and Henrie tta Holdings, and a 34% ownership interest in Stateline Holdings. The minority membership interests are accounted for as equity method investments, as the Partnership is able to exercise significant influence through its governing board, while the non-affi liated majority owner otherwise controls. The following table summarizes the activity of the Partnership's investments in its unconsolidated affiliates during the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively: (1) The net income (loss) used to determine the Partnership's equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates reflects adjustments pursuant to the equity method of accounting, including the amortization of basis differences resulting from the Partnership's proportionate share of certain equity method investees' net assets exceeding their carrying values. The difference between the amounts at which the Partnership's investments in unconsolidated affiliates are carried and the Partnership's proportionate share of the equity method investee's net assets for equity method investments was $139.4 million and $83.2 million as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, respectively. The Partnership accretes the basis difference over the life of the underlying assets and the accretion expense was $1.0 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively . The following table presents summarized financial information of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings, Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings as derived from the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of such entities for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively: 17 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 4. Balance Sheet Components Financing Receivables The Partnership's net investment in sales-type leases presented in "Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net" and "Long-term financing receivables, net" on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets is as follows: (1) Allowance for losses on financing receivables was $0.6 million and $0.7 million as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, respectively. (2) Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets includes other trade accounts receivable of $3.1 million and $2.9 million, as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, respectively. 18 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Current and Non-current Assets (1) For the Kingbird Project and the Quinto Project, the construction costs related to the network upgrade of a transmission grid belonging to a utility company are reimbursable by that utility company over five years from the date the project reached commercial operation. (2) Other current assets included $0.4 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.1 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.3 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2017. Similarly, other current assets included $0.5 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.2 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.3 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the consolidated balance sheet as of November 30, 2016. (3) Construction-in-progress is the project assets related to the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and Kern Phase 2(b) Assets. (4) Intangible assets represents a customer contract intangible that is amortized on a straight-line basis beginning on COD through the contract term end date of December 31, 2020, of which $0.1 million and zero reduced operating revenues in the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively. 19 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Current Li abilities (1) Related party payable on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2017 consists of (i) $5.8 million related to the purchase price payable to SunPower, which will be funded by tax equity investors for the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition and the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition; (ii) $0.6 million related to accrued distribution to tax equity investors; and (iii) $0.6 million for accounts payable to related parties associated with O&amp;M, AMA and MSA fees owed to the Sponsors. Related party payable on the consolidated balance sheets as of November 30, 2016 consists of (i) $19.5 million related to the purchase price payable to SunPower for the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition and the Macy's Maryland Acquisition; (ii) $1.0 million related to accrued distribution to tax equity investors; and (iii) $0.1 million for accounts payable to related parties associated with O&amp;M, AMA and MSA fees owed to the Sponsors. Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies Land Use Commitments The Partnership is a party to various agreements that provide for payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which projects under PPAs are located. The total minimum lease and easement commitments at February 28, 2017 under these land use agreements are as follows: Solar Power System Performance Warranty Lease agreements require the Partnership to undertake a system output performance warranty. The Partnership has recorded in "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" amounts related to these system output performance warranties totaling $0.1 million and $0.2 million as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, respectively. The Partnership has also recorded in "Other current assets" amounts of $0.1 million and $0.2 million as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, relating to anticipated performance warranty reimbursements from the O&amp;M provider. The following table summarizes accrued system output performance warranty activity for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively: 20 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Asset Retirement Obligations The Partnership's AROs are based on estimated third-party costs associated with the decommissioning of the applicable project assets. Revisions to these costs may increase or decrease in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications, inflation or other factors. Decommissioning activities generally occur over a period of time commencing at the end of the system's life. The following table summarizes ARO activity for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively: Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Partnership may be notified of possible claims or assessments. The Partnership will record a provision for these claims when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss, or a range of the potential loss, can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed regularly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information or events pertaining to a particular case. Although the Partnership may, from time to time, be involved in litigation and claims arising out of its operations in the ordinary course of business, the Partnership is not a party to any litigation or governmental or other proceeding that the Partnership believes will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Environmental Contingencies The Partnership reviews its obligations as they relate to compliance with environmental laws, including site restoration and remediation. During the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, there were no known environmental contingencies that required the Partnership to recognize a liability. Note 6. Lease Agreements and Power Purchase Agreements Lease Agreements As of February 28, 2017, the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include approximately 5,900 residential lease agreements which have original terms of 20 years and are classified as either operating or sales-type leases. In addition, the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project has a lease term that will expire on December 31, 2019, and the lessee, who is an affiliate of First Solar, is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. 21 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The following table presents the Partnership's minimum future rental receipts on operating leases (including the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project and the residential lease portfolio) placed in service as of February 28, 2017: (1) Minimum future rentals on operating leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. As of February 28, 2017, future maturities of net financing receivables for sales-type leases are as follows: (1) Minimum future rentals on sales-type leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. Power Purchase Agreements Under the terms of various PPAs, the Partnership's contracted counterparties may be obligated to take all or part of the output from the system at stipulated prices over defined periods. All PPAs associated with solar generation systems operating as of February 28, 2017 have no minimum lease payments and all of the rental income under these leases is recorded as revenue when the electricity is delivered. SREC Sales Agreement The Partnership applies for and receives SRECs for power generated by certain of our solar power systems. The Partnership has entered into an SREC Sales Agreement with a non-affiliated party to assist it in meeting its own emissions reduction or conservation requirements. Under the terms of the SREC Sales Agreement, the contracted counterparty is obligated to purchase an annual number of SRECs from the Partnership at stipulated prices over a defined period of time. The Partnership recognizes revenue and associated costs upon delivery of the SRECs to the counterparty. As of February 28, 2017, firm sales under the SREC Sales Agreement are as follows: Note 7. Debt and Financing Obligations Credit Facility and Stateline Promissory Note On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. OpCo borrowed $300.0 million under the term loan facility on June 5, 2015, which indebtedness will mature on the fifth anniversary of its issuance, at which point all amounts outstanding under the $525.0 million credit facility will become due and payable. There will be no principal amortization over the term of the credit facility. The discount and incremental debt issuance costs associated with these borrowings were $3.1 million and were reported as a direct deduction from the face amount of the note. The Partnership used the net proceeds of the term loan facility to pay distributions of $129.4 million and $168.9 million to First Solar and SunPower, respectively. 22 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued On March 30, 2016, OpCo drew down $40.0 million from its revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from its delayed draw term loan facility. On September 29, 2016, OpCo drew down $23.0 million from its revolving credit facility. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit faci lity, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million. On December 1, 2016, in connection with the Stateline Acquisition, OpCo drew d own $250.0 million under the incremental term loan facility and $20.0 million under the revolving credit facility. On February 24, 2017 in connection with the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition, OpCo drew down $6.0 million under the revolving credit facility. As of February 28, 2017, OpCo had outstanding borrowings of $300.0 million under the term loan facility, $250.0 million under the incremental term loan facility, $25.0 million under the delayed draw term loan facility and $89.0 million under the revolving credit facility, as well as approximately $54.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The remaining portion of the revolving credit facility is undrawn as of February 28, 2017. As of November 30, 2016, OpCo had outstanding borrowings of $300.0 million under the term loan facility, $25.0 million under the delayed draw term loan facility and $63.0 million under the revolving credit facility, as well as approximately $54.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility. OpCo's credit facility is collateralized by a pledge of the equity of OpCo and certain of its subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. The term loan bears an interest rate of approximately 2.78% and 2.61% per annum as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, respectively. OpCo has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the interest rate on a portion of the borrowings under the term loan facility. For more details, please read "-Note 8. Fair Value." OpCo's credit facility contains covenants including, among others, requiring the Partnership to maintain the following financial ratios: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio of not more than (a) 6.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending November 30, 2016 through November 30, 2017; and (b) 5.00 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of the Partnership or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. The Joinder Agreement amended OpCo's credit facility to permit OpCo to incur up to $50.0 million in subordinated indebtedness from First Solar or its affiliate to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Stateline Project. As of February 28, 2017, the Partnership was in compliance with its debt covenants. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended OpCo's credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Omnibus Agreement, (ii) to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. On December 1, 2016, in connection with the Stateline Acquisition, OpCo issued a promissory note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million. The Stateline Promissory Note is unsecured and matures on the date that is six months after the maturity date under OpCo's credit facility. Interest will accrue at a rate of 4% per annum, except it will accrue at a rate of 6% per annum (i) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a specified event of default and (ii) in respect of amounts accrued as payments-in-kind pursuant to the terms of the note. OpCo is not permitted to prepay the $50.0 million promissory note without the consent of certain lenders under its existing credit agreement (except for certain mandatory prepayments). Until OpCo has paid in full the principal and interest on promissory note, OpCo is restricted in its ability to: (i) acquire interests in additional projects (other than the acquisition of the Kern Phase 2 Assets); (ii) use the net proceeds of equity issuances except as prescribed in the promissory note; (iii) incur additional indebtedness to which the promissory note would be subordinate; and (iv) extend the maturity date under OpCo's existing credit facility. 23 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued As of February 28, 2017, OpCo had outstanding borrowings of $50.0 million under the Stateline Promissory Note. The following table summarizes the Partnership's debt obligations: August 2011 Letter of Credit Facility with Deutsche Bank In August 2011, the Predecessor's parent, SunPower, entered into a letter of credit facility agreement with Deutsche Bank, as administrative agent, and certain financial institutions. Payment of obligations under the letter of credit facility is guaranteed by the majority shareholder of SunPower, Total S.A. As of February 28, 2017, and November 30, 2016, letters of credit issued and outstanding under the August 2011 letter of credit facility with Deutsche Bank which is available to SunPower for the Quinto Project and the RPU Project totaled $11.5 million and $30.7 million, respectively. The associated fees incurred for the letters of credit to Deutsche Bank were $0.1 million for both the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, and were recognized as interest expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, SunPower as the Sponsor who contributed the Quinto Project cancelled one of its letter of credit facilities associated with the Quinto Project upon its achieving COD in November 2015. However, SunPower will continue to maintain the remaining letters of credit under this credit facility in connection with certain reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project and will bear the associated fees until all such letters of credit are cancelled, which is expected to occur no later than April 2017. Since the RPU Project achieved COD in September 2015, SunPower as the Sponsor who contributed the RPU Project is in the process of terminating the related letters of credit, and the Partnership has issued the required letters of credit under its revolving credit facility. Note 8. Fair Value Fair value is estimated by applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement (observable inputs are the preferred basis of valuation): Level 1-Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2-Measurements are inputs that are observable for assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly, other than quoted prices included within Level 1. Level 3-Prices or valuations that require management inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. The first two levels in the hierarchy are considered observable inputs and the last is considered unobservable. Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following table presents the Partnership's assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis, categorized in accordance with the fair value hierarchy: 24 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Derivative financial instruments: On July 17, 2015, OpCo entered into interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term lo an with an aggregate notional value of $240.0 million. Under the interest rate swap agreements, OpCo paid a fixed swap rate of interest of 1.55% and the counterparties to the agreements paid a floating interest rate based on three-month LIBOR at quarterly intervals through the maturity date of August 31, 2018. OpCo had the right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and any quarterly fixed payment date thereafter with a minimum of five business days' notification. OpCo exercised its right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and entered into new interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $250.0 m illion.Under the new interest rate swap agreements, OpCo will pay a fixed swap rate of interest of approximately 0.85% and the counterparties to the agreements will pay a floating interest rate based on one-month LIBOR at monthly intervals through the ma turity date of August 31, 2018. On January 5, 2017, OpCo entered into another interest rate swap agreement intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $40.0 million. Under t his interest rate swap agreement, OpCo will pay a fixed swap rate of interest of approximately 1.16% and the counterparty to the agreement will pay a floating interest rate based on one-month LIBOR at monthly intervals through the maturity date of August 3 1, 2018. As of both February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, these interest rate swap agreements had not been designated as cash flow hedges and are reflected at fair value on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of both February 28, 2017, and November 30, 2016, these interest rate swap agreements have been presented in other long-term assets on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet since the maturity date is over one year after the balance sheet date. During the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, the Partnership recorded a change in fair value of $0.7 million and $0.1 million, respectively, within other income and other expense, respectively, in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. The primary inputs into the valuation of interest rate swaps are interest yield curves, interest rate volatility, and credit spreads. The Partnership's interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, since all significant inputs are corroborated by market observable data. There were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the period. Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis Long-term debt and financing obligations: The estimated fair value of the Partnership's long-term debt was classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as of February 29, 2017 and November 30, 2016, and approximated its carrying value of $708.5 million and $384.4 million, respectively, as the term loan facility is a variable rate debt with the interest rate indexed to the market and reset on a frequent and short-term basis . Note 9. Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests represent the portion of net assets in consolidated subsidiaries that are not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Partnership. For accounting purposes, the holders of noncontrolling interests of the Partnership include the Sponsors, which are SunPower and First Solar, as described in "-Note 1-Description of Business," and third-party investors under the tax equity financing facilities. As of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, First Solar and SunPower had noncontrolling interests of 28.0% and 36.5%, respectively, in OpCo . In addition, certain subsidiaries of OpCo have entered into tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems. The Partnership, through OpCo, holds controlling interests in these less-than-wholly-owned entities and has therefore fully consolidated these entities. The Partnership accounts for the portion of net assets using the HLBV Method in the consolidated entities attributable to the investors as "Redeemable noncontrolling interests" and "Noncontrolling interests" in its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries that are redeemable at the option of the noncontrolling interest holder are classified as "Redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries" between liabilities and equity on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and the balance is the greater of the carrying value calculated under the HLBV Method or the redemption value. In connection with the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition on February 24, 2017, OpCo acquired the noncontrolling interest balance totaling $1.1 million. Please read " - Note 2-Business Combinations" for further details. As of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, redeemable noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors after adjusting the carrying amount to the redemption value was $17.3 million and $17.6 million , respectively, and noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors were $50.6 million and $40.8 million , respectively. 25 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued During the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016 such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received $18.8 million and zero, respectively, contributions from th ird-party investors under the related facilities and attributed $8.8 million and $34.9 million, respectively, in losses to the third-party investors primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016 such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo made $1.5 million and $0.9 million, respectively, in distributions to third-party investors under the related facilities. The following table presents the noncontrolling interest balances by entity, reported in shareholders' equity in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016: Note 10. Shareholders' Equity On June 24, 2015, the Partnership completed its IPO by issuing 20,000,000 of its Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership to the public. On September 28, 2016 the Partnership sold in an underwritten registered public offering 8,050,000 Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership. ATM Program On January 30, 2017, the Partnership established the ATM Program under which the Partnership may sell Class A shares from time to time through the ATM Agents up to an aggregate sales price of $125.0 million. The Partnership may also sell Class A shares to any ATM Agent, as principal for its own account, at a price agreed upon at the time of the sale. The Partnership will use the net proceeds from sales under the ATM Program to purchase a number of common units in OpCo equal to the number of Class A shares issued under the ATM Program. OpCo may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, repaying borrowings under the Stateline Promissory Note and OpCo's credit facilities, and funding working capital or acquisitions. As of both February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016 , the Partnership owned a 35.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo as well as a controlling noneconomic managing member interest in OpCo, and the Sponsors collectively owned 51,000,000 Class B shares in the Partnership, with SunPower and First Solar having owned 28,883,075 and 22,116,925 Class B shares, respectively, and together, having owned a noncontrolling 64.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo. No shares were issued under the ATM Program during the quarter ended February 28, 2017. The following shares of the Partnership were outstanding as of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, respectively: Cash Distribution On January 13, 2017, the Partnership distributed $7.0 million on its Class A shares and OpCo distributed $12.7 million on its common and subordinated units, or in each case $0.2490 per share or unit, for the period from September 1, 2016 to November 30, 2016. 26 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 11. Net Income Per Share Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively, attributable to Class A shareholders by the weighted average number of Class A shares outstanding for the applicable period. Diluted net income per share is computed using basic weighted average Class A shares outstanding plus, if dilutive, any potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period using the treasury-stock-type method. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement entered into among the Partnership, the General Partner, OpCo, a wholly owned subsidiary of SunPower and a wholly owned subsidiary of First Solar, the Sponsors can tender OpCo common units and an equal number of such Sponsor's Class B shares for redemption, and the Partnership has the right to directly purchase the tendered OpCo common units and Class B shares for, subject to the approval of its conflicts committee, cash or the issuance of Class A shares of the Partnership. If the Partnership elects to issue Class A shares, it would cancel the tendered Class B shares and hold the OpCo common units with the other OpCo common units it previously held, since the number of Class A shares issued must at all time equal the number of OpCo common units held by the Partnership. Since the Partnership would be holding additional OpCo common units, the net income attributable to Class A shares would proportionately increase, resulting in no change to net income per share for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively. In addition, there were no potentially dilutive securities (including any stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units) for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively. Accordingly, basic and diluted net income per share for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively was as follows: (1) Up to the amount of OpCo common units held by Sponsors Note 12. Related Parties Management Services Agreements Immediately prior to the completion of the IPO on June 24, 2015, the Partnership, together with the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings, entered into similar but separate MSAs with affiliates of each of the Sponsors (each, a "Service Provider"). Under the MSAs, the Service Providers provide or arrange for the provision of certain administrative and management services for the 27 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Partnership and certain of its subsidiaries, including managing the Partnership's day-to-day affairs, in addition to those services that are provided under existing O&M agreements and AMAs between affiliates of the Sponsors and certain of the subsidiaries of the Partnership. In Augu st 2015, the First Solar MSA and the SunPower MSA were amended to adjust the annual management fee payable to each respective Service Provider. Under the First Solar MSA, OpCo pays an annual management fee of $0.6 million to the First Solar Service Provide r. Under the SunPower MSA, OpCo pays an annual management fee of $1.1 million to the SunPower Service Provider. These payments are subject to annual adjustments for inflation. On January 20, 2017, the parties thereto amended the SunPower MSA to include Kin gbird Solar, LLC and the Kingbird Project Entities under certain aspects of SunPower's scope of managerial services effective April 30, 2016 in return for the associated AMA fee payable by First Solar Asset Management, LLC. Costs incurred for these services were $0.4 million for both the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016. EPC Agreements Various projects are designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to EPC agreements with affiliates of the Sponsors, which may include a 2- to 10-year system warranty against defects in materials, construction, fabrication and workmanship, and in some cases, may include a 25-year power and product warranty on certain modules. As of February 28, 2017, all of the projects contributed by the Sponsors on the date of the IPO, along with the Henrietta Project, the Hooper Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Stateline Project have achieved COD. The Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and Kern Phase 2(b) Assets are construction-in-progress as of February 28, 2017 and expected to achieve COD in June 2017. SunPower as the EPC provider is required to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets and pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, all the associated costs to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets are obligations of SunPower. O&amp;M Agreements and Asset Management Agreements The Project Entities and certain other subsidiaries have entered into O&amp;M agreements and AMAs with affiliates of the Sponsors, as applicable (except where such persons are otherwise subject to O&amp;M agreements or AMAs with unaffiliated third parties). Under the terms of the O&amp;M agreements and the AMAs, such affiliates have agreed to provide a variety of operation, maintenance and asset management services, and certain performance warranties or availability guarantees, to the subsidiaries of the Partnership in exchange for annual fees, which are subject to certain adjustments. Costs incurred for O&amp;M and AMA services were $1.5 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively. Omnibus Agreement The Partnership has entered into the Omnibus Agreement with its Sponsors, the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings. The material provisions of the Omnibus Agreement are as follows: (a) each Sponsor was granted an exclusive right to perform certain services not otherwise covered by an O&amp;M agreement or an AMA on behalf of the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (b) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that had not achieved commercial operation as of the date contributed to the Partnership, the Sponsor who contributed such project agreed to pay to OpCo all costs required to complete such project, as well as certain liquidated damages in the event such project fails to achieve operability pursuant to an agreed schedule (subject to certain adjustments); (c) with respect to the Quinto Project and the North Star Project, the Sponsor who contributed such project agreed to pay to OpCo the difference, if any, between the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of such Sponsor's contributed project at the time of the IPO and the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received given the actual amount of upgrade costs incurred in respect of such project; (d) each Sponsor agreed to certain undertakings on the part of its affiliates who are members of the Project Entities or who provide asset management, construction, operating and maintenance and other services to the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (e) to the extent a Sponsor continues to post credit support on behalf of a Project Entity after it has been contributed to OpCo, OpCo agreed to reimburse such Sponsor upon any demand or draw under such credit support, and the Sponsor agreed to maintain such support pursuant to the applicable underlying contractual or regulatory requirements; (f) each Sponsor agreed to indemnify OpCo for any costs it incurs with respect to certain tax-related events and events in connection with tax equity financing arrangements; and (g) the parties agreed to a mutual undertaking regarding confidentiality and use of names, trademarks, trade names and other insignias. The schedules of the Omnibus Agreement are amended in connection with each project acquisition to include the solar power systems acquired effective the closing date of such acquisition. 28 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued During the three months ended February 28, 2017, the Partnership received $0.1 million in indemnity payments from the Sponsors for the delay in commercial operations of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets.During the three months ended February 29, 2016, the Partnership received $13.9 million related to the shor tfall associated with the network upgrade refunds and test energy projected to be received. Promissory Notes On November 25, 2015, OpCo issued a short-term promissory note to First Solar in the principal amount of $2.0 million (the "Short-term Note"), in exchange for First Solar's loan of such amount to OpCo. Upon the receipt of certain payments by the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity from SDG&amp;E under the power purchase agreement between the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity and SDG&amp;E, which had been previously withheld pending completion of an administrative requirement (each, a "Specified Payment"), OpCo was obligated to repay a portion of the principal amount of the Short-term Note equal to such Specified Payment and the unpaid balance of all interest accrued under the Short-term Note to and including the date of such repayment. Interest under the Short-term Note accrued at a rate of 1% on the portion of the principal of the Short-term Note equal to the amount of each Specified Payment from the date SDG&amp;E remitted such payment to the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity through the date that OpCo repaid such amount to First Solar as described above. OpCo is permitted to prepay the Short-term Note at any time without penalty or premium. On December 30, 2016, OpCo repaid the Short-term Note to First Solar. In connection with the closing of the Stateline Acquisition on December 1, 2016, OpCo issued the Stateline Promissory Note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million. Please read "-Note 7- Debt and Financing Obligations" for further details. Purchase and Sale Agreements On November 11, 2016, OpCo entered into the Stateline Purchase Agreement with First Solar and First Solar Asset Management, LLC pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Stateline Project, as further described above in "-Note 3-Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates." Effective December 1, 2016, OpCo acquired Stateline Holdings from First Solar for a total purchase price of $329.5 million (before consideration of acquisition-related costs). On January 26, 2016, OpCo entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement with SunPower pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project, as further described above in "-Note 2-Business Combinations." Effective January 26, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership. Pursuant to the Kern Purchase Agreement, the purchase price for the Kern Project will be paid by OpCo when each phase of the project reaches "mechanical completion." In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a specified distribution waterfall. Purchase price payments of up to approximately $30.0 million will be funded by the tax equity investor's capital contributions, of which $0.9 million, $1.8 million, $1.3 million, $6.7 million and $8.2 million was paid on January 22, 2016, September 9, 2016, November 30, 2016, December 14, 2016 and February 24, 2017, respectively, and the remaining capital contribution balance of up to $11.1 million will be made when the Kern Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments. First Solar ROFO Agreement Pursuant to the First Solar ROFO Agreement, First Solar previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 179 MW Switch Station solar generation project in Nevada ("Switch Station"). On February 13, 2017, OpCo waived the 45-day negotiation period under the First Solar ROFO Agreement with respect to Switch Station; following such waiver, First Solar has the right to offer and sell Switch Station to a third party, in accordance with the terms of the First Solar ROFO Agreement. SunPower ROFO Agreement On February 13, 2017, OpCo entered into the Second Amendment and Waiver to Right of First Offer Agreement (the "Waiver") with SunPower. Pursuant to SunPower ROFO Agreement, SunPower previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 100 MW El Pelicano solar generation project in Chile ("El Pelicano"). Pursuant to the Waiver, OpCo waived its rights under the ROFO Agreement with respect to El Pelicano. The Waiver also contains customary representations, warranties and agreements of OpCo and SunPower. 29 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement The Maryland Solar Project Entity has leased the Maryland Solar Project to an affiliate of First Solar. Under the arrangement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The lease agreement will expire on December 31, 2019 (unless terminated earlier pursuant to its terms). FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. ("FirstEnergy"), the Partnership's offtake counterparty with respect to the Maryland Solar Project, had its credit rating downgraded multiple times in 2016. As of January 23, 2017, the credit rating of FirstEnergy was Caa1 and CCC+ by Moody's Investors Service and Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services, respectively, both of which are significantly below investment grade. In addition, Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services placed FirstEnergy on CreditWatch with negative implications, based on a $1.51 billion pretax impairment charge that the company's competitive business will incur from the deactivation of several coal units. In November 2016, FirstEnergy Corp., the parent of FirstEnergy, announced a strategic review of its competitive business, pursuant to which the company would seek to move away from competitive markets. FirstEnergy's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 reported a substantial uncertainty as to their ability to continue as a going concern. While their credit rating has not subsequently been downgraded they remain on Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services under CreditWatch. As of February 28, 2017, FirstEnergy is current with respect to the payments due under the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project. As further described Part III, Item 13. "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence-Agreements with our Sponsors-Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement" in the 2016 10-K, First Solar's affiliate is obligated under the Maryland Solar lease arrangement to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. Such lease agreement will terminate upon any termination of the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project or the site ground lease. Pursuant to the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project, a FirstEnergy bankruptcy would be an event of default under the PPA, permitting (subject to applicable law) the termination of the PPA. Upon any such early termination of the lease agreement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to return the facility in its then-current condition and location to the Partnership, without any warranties, and no rent shall thereafter be payable by such First Solar affiliate. In the event that the PPA was terminated and First Solar were to subsequently terminate the Maryland Solar Lease Agreement, the Maryland Solar Project would have no agreement through which to sell the energy that it produces, which equates to approximately $8.0 million in annual revenue. Note 13. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal rate of 35% primarily due to the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. The Partnership's financial reporting year-end is November 30 while its tax year-end is December 31. The Partnership has elected to base the tax provision on the financial reporting year; therefore, since the 2017 financial reporting year is December 1, 2016 through November 30, 2017, the taxable income (loss) included in the 2017 tax provision is for the tax year ended December 31, 2016. The provision accrued at the financial reporting year-end will be a discrete period computation, and the tax credits and permanent differences recognized in that accrual will be those generated between the tax year-end date and the financial reporting year-end date. With the exception of minimum state income and franchise tax payments, any amounts recorded for income tax provision (benefit) represent deferred income taxes being provided on the net income before taxes of OpCo, a non-taxable partnership, which is allocated to the Partnership. Although organized as a limited partnership under state law, the Partnership elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Partnership is subject to U.S. federal income taxes at regular corporate rates on its net taxable income, and distributions it makes to holders of its Class A shares will be taxable as ordinary dividend income to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined on the basis of the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are provided against deferred tax assets when management cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that some portion or all deferred tax assets will be realized. 30 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The Partnership recognizes deferred tax assets to the extent that it believes th ese assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, the Partnership considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable incom e, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. If the Partnership determines that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, it would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would reduce the provision for income taxes. The Partnership records uncertain tax positions on the basis of a two-step process whereby (1) it determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position and (2) for those tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the Partnership recognizes the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Note 14. Segment Information The Partnership manages its Portfolio as one segment that operates a portfolio of solar energy generation systems. It operates as a single reportable segment based on the "management" approach. Long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment, net, were located in the United States. All operating revenues for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016 were from customers located in the United States. The following customers each comprised 10% or more of our total revenue for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, respectively: *Total revenue to these customers were less than 10% of our total revenue for the period. Note 15. Subsequent Events On March 23, 2017, our general partner's board of directors declared a cash distribution for our Class A shares of $0.2565 per share for the first quarter of 2017. Our general partner's board of directors declared a corresponding cash distribution for OpCo's common and subordinated units, which includes all common and subordinated units held by First Solar and SunPower. The first quarter distribution will be paid on April 14, 2017 to shareholders and unitholders of record as of April 4, 2017. Pursuant to the First Solar ROFO Agreement, First Solar previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 40 MW Cuyama solar generation project in California ("Cuyama") and the 280 MW California Flats solar generation project in California ("California Flats"). On April 3, 2017, First Solar offered the Cuyama and California Flats projects to OpCo in accordance with the terms of the First Solar ROFO Agreement. On April 5, 2017, First Solar notified our general partner's board of directors of its intention to explore alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership. Following such announcement, SunPower also notified our general partner's board of directors that it is exploring alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership, including but not limited to seeking a potential new partner in the Partnership. 31 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2016 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or forecasts of future events. Words such as "could," "will," "may," "assume," "forecast," "position," "predict," "strategy," "expect," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "project," "budget," "potential" or "continue" and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this report include statements concerning our Sponsors' ownership interest in us, our expectations of plans, strategies, objectives, growth and anticipated financial and operational performance. Forward-looking statements can be affected by assumptions used or by known or unknown risks or uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statements can be guaranteed. A forward-looking statement may include a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying the forward-looking statement. We believe that we have chosen these assumptions or bases in good faith and that they are reasonable. However, when considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this report and in the 2016 10-K. Those risk factors and other factors noted throughout this report and in the 2016 10-K could cause our actual results to differ materially from those disclosed in any forward-looking statement. You should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the risk factors included in this report and the 2016 10-K to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Please read "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in Part I, Item 1A. of the 2016 10-K. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements except as required by law. Overview Description of Partnership We are a growth-oriented limited partnership formed by First Solar and SunPower, our Sponsors, to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation projects. Our Portfolio As of February 28, 2017, our Portfolio consisted of interests in 945 MW of solar energy projects. As of February 28, 2017, we owned interests in ten utility-scale solar energy projects, all of which are operational. These assets represent 92% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. As of February 28, 2017, we owned interests in four C&amp;I solar energy projects, three of which were operational and one of which was in late-stage construction, and a portfolio of residential DG Solar assets, which represent 8% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. Our Portfolio is located entirely in the United States and consists of utility-scale and C&amp;I assets that sell substantially all of their output under long-term, fixed-price offtake agreements primarily with investment grade offtake counterparties and residential DG Solar assets that are leased under long-term fixed-price offtake agreements with high credit quality residential customers with FICO scores averaging 765 at the time of the initial contract. As of February 28, 2017, the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 19.8 years. For an overview of the assets that comprise our Portfolio as of February 28, 2017, please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 1- Description of Business." How We Generate Revenues Under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each Utility Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements have certain availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, then in some cases the applicable project is required to pay the offtake counterparty a specified damages amount, and in some cases the offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement or reduce the contract quantity. In addition, under our Utility Project Entities' offtake 32 agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 60 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any. Under the offtake agreements of our C&amp;I Project Entities, each C&amp;I Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Certain of our C&amp;I Project Entities' offtake agreements have availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, the offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement. Under our C&amp;I Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 30 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any. One of our C&I Project Entities has additionally entered into a SREC Agreement under which SRECs are sold to a non-affiliated party at a fixed price over the term of the agreement. Under our Residential Portfolio Project Entity's offtake agreements, homeowners are obligated to make lease payments to the Residential Portfolio Project Entity on a monthly basis. The customer's monthly payment is fixed based on a calculation that takes into account expected solar energy generation, and certain of our current offtake agreements contain price escalators with an average of a 1% increase annually. Customers are eligible to purchase the leased solar power systems to facilitate the sale or transfer of their home. The agreements also include an early buy-out option at fair market value exercisable in the seventh year that allows customers to purchase the solar power system . How We Evaluate Our Operations Our management uses a variety of financial metrics to analyze our performance. The key financial metrics we evaluate are Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution. Adjusted EBITDA . We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax provision, depreciation, amortization and accretion, including our proportionate share of net interest expense, income taxes and depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method, and share-based compensation and transaction costs incurred for our acquisitions of projects; and excluding the effect of certain other non-cash or non-recurring items that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance such as, but not limited to, mark to market adjustments to the fair value of derivatives related to our interest rate hedges. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. This measurement is not recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to U.S. GAAP measures of performance. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA is net income (loss). The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of financial performance and borrowers' ability to service debt. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is used by our management for internal planning purposes including certain aspects of our consolidated operating budget and capital expenditures. It is also used by investors to assess the ability of our assets to generate sufficient cash flows to make distributions to our Class A shareholders. However, Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital, does not reflect significant interest expense or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our outstanding debt or cash distributions on tax equity, does not reflect payments made or future requirements for income taxes, and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss) or any other performance measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of Adjusted EBITDA are not necessarily comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income (loss). Cash Available for Distribution. We use cash available for distribution, which we define as Adjusted EBITDA less equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, cash interest paid, cash income taxes paid, maintenance capital expenditures, cash distributions to noncontrolling interests and principal amortization of indebtedness plus cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates, indemnity payments and working capital loans from Sponsors, test electricity generation, cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases, state and local rebates and 33 cash proceeds for reimbursable network upgrade costs. Our cash flow is generated from distributions we receive from OpCo each quarter. OpCo's cash flow is generated primarily from distributions from the Project Entities. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our Class A shareholders depends primarily on the ability of the Project Entities to make cash distributions to OpCo and the ability of OpCo to make cash distributions to its unitholders. We believe cash available for distribution is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of our ability to make our distributions. In addition, cash available for distribution is used by our management team for determining future acquisitions and managing our growth. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available for distribution is net income (loss). However, cash available for distribution has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not capture the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the operating performance of our projects, does not include changes in operating assets and liabilities and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results from operations. Cash available for distribution is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss) or any other performance measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of cash available for distribution are not necessarily comparable to cash available for distribution as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income (loss) . 34 The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distributio n for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016: (1) Represents acquisition-related financial advisory, legal and accounting fees associated with ROFO Project interests purchased and expected to be purchased by us in the future. (2) Represents the changes in fair value of interest rate swaps that were not designated as cash flow hedges . (3) Represents our proportionate share of net interest expense, depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method . (4) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates represents the earnings from the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project, the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the Henrietta Project, and the Stateline Project and is included on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. (5) Represents cash interest payments related to OpCo's senior secured credit facility and the Stateline Promissory Note. (6) Represents repayment of a working capital loan from First Solar. (7) Cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates represent the cash received by OpCo with respect to its 49% interest in the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project, the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the Henrietta Project, and its 34% interest in the Stateline Project. (8) Represents indemnity payments from the Sponsors owed to OpCo in accordance with the Omnibus Agreement. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12. Related Parties." (9) State and local rebates represent cash received from state or local governments for owning certain solar power systems. The receipt of state and local rebates is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue. 35 (10) Cash proceeds fro m sales-type residential leases, net, represent gross rental cash receipts for sales-type leases, less sales-type revenue and lease interest income that is already reflected in net income (loss) during the period. The corresponding revenue for such leases was recognized in the period in which such lease was placed in service, rather than in the period in which the rental payment was received, due to the characterization of these leases under U.S. GAAP . (11) Test electricity generation represents the sale of electricity that was generated prior to COD by Macy's Maryland Project for the three months ended February 28, 2017. Solar systems may begin generating electricity prior to COD as a result of the installation and interconnection of individual solar modules, which occurs over time during the construction and commission period. The sale of test electricity generation is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue prior to COD, even though it generates cash for the related Project Entity. (12) Cash proceeds from a utility company related toreimbursable network upgrade costs associated with the Quinto Project and the Kingbird Project. 36 Significant Factors and Trends Affecting Our Business We expect the following factors will affect our results of operations: Power Purchase Agreements Our revenues are a function of the volume of electricity generated and sold by our projects and rental payments under lease agreements. The assets in our Portfolio sell substantially all of their output or are leased under long-term, fixed price offtake agreements primarily with investment grade utility-scale and C&amp;I offtakers, as well as high credit quality residential customers with an average FICO score of 765 at the time of initial contract. As of February 28, 2017, the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 19.8 years, with the offtake agreements of our Utility Project Entities having remaining terms ranging from 16.1 to 26.8 years and our C&amp;I offtake agreements and residential offtake agreements having remaining terms ranging from 15.5 to 19.8 years. We believe long-term agreements with creditworthy customers substantially mitigate volatility in our cash flows. As of February 28, 2017, two offtake counterparties were placed on CreditWatch by Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services, increasing our credit risk associated with these customers. Please read Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Project Agreements-We rely on a limited number of offtake counterparties and we are exposed to the risk that they are unwilling or unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or that they otherwise terminate their offtake agreements with us" and Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties-Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement." Operation of Projects Our revenues are a function of the volume of electricity generated by our projects during a particular period, which is impacted by the number of systems that have achieved commercial operations, as well as both scheduled and unexpected repair and maintenance required to keep our systems operational. Equipment performance represents the primary factor affecting our operating results because equipment downtime impacts the volume of the electricity that we are able to generate from our systems. Future Acquisitions Our ability to grow our business and increase our quarterly cash distributions could be impacted by a number of factors and trends that affect our industry generally, including the development of any ROFO Projects we may acquire in the future. Our ability to acquire ROFO Projects is dependent on our ability to agree on terms with our Sponsors, our ability to borrow additional funds and access capital markets , our Sponsors' ability to complete the development of the ROFO Projects and our Sponsors' decision to sell the ROFO Projects they develop. Please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy and Future Growth-Our Sponsors' failure to complete the development of the First Solar ROFO Projects and the SunPower ROFO Projects or project developers', including our Sponsors', failure to develop other solar energy projects, including those opportunities that are part of our Sponsors' development pipeline, could have a significant effect on our ability to grow" in the 2016 10-K. Demand for Solar Energy United States energy demand is increasing due to economic development and population growth. The U.S. Energy Information Administration's August 2016 Annual Energy Outlook projects fossil fuels' share of total energy in the United States to decline from 82% in 2015 to 77% in 2040, while renewable energy use is projected to grow from 9% in 2015 to 15% in 2040 in response to the Clean Power Plan, availability of federal tax credits for renewable electricity generation and capacity during the early years of the projection, and state renewable portfolio standard programs. With exposure to volatile fossil fuel costs, increasing concern about carbon emissions and a variety of other factors, customers are seeking alternatives to traditional sources of electricity generation. As a form of electricity generation that is not dependent on fossil fuels, does not produce greenhouse gas emissions and whose costs are falling, solar energy is well-positioned to continue to capture an increasing share of this new build capacity. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from this increased demand for solar energy. However, the demand for solar energy could change at any time, especially as a result of a decline in commodity prices, including the price of natural gas, or a change in the federal, state, or local policies regulating natural gas, coal, oil and other fossil fuels, which could lower prices for fuel sources used to produce energy from other technologies and reduce the demand for solar energy. For more information about the risks associated with changing demand for solar energy, please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-If solar energy technology is not suitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return, or if sufficient additional demand for solar power systems does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our ability to acquire accretive projects may decrease" in the 2016 10-K. 37 Government Incentives Our Portfolio benefits from certain federal, state and local incentives designed to promote the development and use of solar energy. These incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ITCs, RPS programs and net metering policies. These incentives make the development of solar energy projects more competitive by providing tax credits and accelerated depreciation for a portion of the development and construction costs, decreasing the costs associated with developing and building such projects. In addition, these incentives create demand for renewable energy assets through RPS programs and the reduction or removal of these incentives may diminish the market for future solar energy offtake agreements and reduce the ability for solar developers to compete for future solar energy offtake agreements. A loss or reduction in such incentives could decrease the attractiveness of solar energy projects to developers, including our Sponsors, which could reduce our acquisition opportunities. For example, the ITC, a federal income tax credit for 30% of eligible basis, is scheduled to fall to 26% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2020, 22% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2021, and 10% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2022 or thereafter or are placed into service on or after January 1, 2024. The current administration's proposed environmental and tax policies may create regulatory uncertainty in the clean energy sector, including the solar energy sector, and may lead to a reduction or removal of various clean energy programs and initiatives designed to curtail climate change. For more information about the risks associated with these government incentives, please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Government regulations providing incentives and subsidies for solar energy could change at any time, including pursuant to the proposed environmental and tax policies of the current administration, and such changes may negatively impact our growth strategy" in the 2016 10-K. The projects in our Portfolio are generally unaffected by the trends discussed above, given that all of the electricity to be generated by our projects are sold under fixed-price offtake agreements, which, as of February 28, 2017, have a weighted average remaining life of approximately 19.8 years. In addition, our near-term growth strategy is also largely insulated from the trends discussed above. We expect that most of our short-term growth will come from opportunities to acquire the ROFO Projects, all of which will have executed power sale agreements at the time of any acquisition by us. Critical Accounting Policies &amp; Estimates We prepare our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses recorded in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. In addition to our most critical estimates discussed below, we also have other key accounting policies that are less subjective and, therefore, judgments involved in their application would not have a material impact on our reported results of operations. Please read Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 2-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the 2016 10-K. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since November 30, 2016. 38 Results of Operatio ns Three Months Ended February 28, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended February 29, 2016 Revenues Over 90% of our operating revenues for both the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016, were comprised of lease revenue from our utility-scale assets, C&amp;I assets and Residential Portfolio. The Partnership's only revenue streams not from the leasing of solar power systems are from the sale and delivery of SRECs to an unaffiliated party. All revenues for the periods presented were generated in the United States. Residential systems are leased under lease agreements which are classified for accounting purposes either as sales-type leases or operating leases. As all the leases owned by the Predecessor were placed into service prior to fiscal 2015, all revenue related to the NPV of the minimum lease payments for sales-type leases has been recognized as of December 28, 2014. Accordingly, other than interest revenue, we had no sales-type lease revenue on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016. For those residential leases classified as sales-type leases, the NPV of the minimum lease payments, net of executory costs, is recognized as revenue when the leased asset is placed in service. Executory costs represent estimated lease operation and maintenance costs, including insurance, to be paid by the lessor, including any profit thereon. This NPV is inclusive of certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments. The difference between the net 39 amount a nd the gross amount of a sales-type lease is amortized as revenue over the lease term using the interest method. Revenue from executory costs is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. For those residential leases classified as operating leases, revenue associated with renting the solar power system and related executory costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. We do not record certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates. Previously, certain of these fixed and determinable state or local rebates defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments, were recorded as deferred revenue in the Predecessor's balance sheets when the lease was placed in service and amortized to revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Total revenues increased by $2.8 million, or 39%, for the three months ended February 28, 2017 as compared to the three months ended February 29, 2016, due to (i) lease revenue generated from the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project, the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, which were acquired subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2016, and (ii) revenue recognized under the SREC Sales Agreement. Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of Operations : Cost of operations primarily includes expenses related to O&M agreements and land lease expenses.The increase of $1.0 million, or 76%, for the three months ended February 28, 2017 as compared to the three months ended February 29, 2016 is primarily driven by (i) increased expenses associated with operating the solar power systems due to the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project, the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, which were acquired subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2016, and (ii) costs associated with the sale and delivery of SRECs. Selling, General and Administrative : SG&A expense primarily includes operating expenses such as audit, legal, insurance, independent board of directors services and fees under the AMAs and MSAs with our Sponsors. The increase of $0.3 million, or 16%, for the three months ended February 28, 2017 as compared to the three months ended February 29, 2016 was primarily driven by additional expenses associated with operating the solar power systems due to the acquisitions of the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project, the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Depreciation and Accretion: Depreciation expense reflects costs associated with depreciation of our solar power system assets that have been placed in service. The increase of $2.1 million, or 46%, for the three months ended February 28, 2017 as compared to the three months ended February 29, 2016 is primarily a result of the commencement of operations, and related depreciation, of the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project, the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Asset, and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . Acquisition-related Transaction Costs: Acquisition-related transactions costs represent legal and consulting fees incurred in connection with the acquisitions. The decrease of $0.8 million, or 98%, for the three months ended February 28, 2017 as compared to the three months ended February 29, 2016 is primarily a result of the execution of the Kern Purchase Agreement and the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition which occurred in January 2016. Transaction costs associated with acquiring the Kern Project Entity were primarily incurred by the Partnership in connection with the initial phase of the acquisition. 40 Other Expense, net Interest Expense: Cash interest expense for the three months ended February 28, 2017 relates to fees associated with outstanding borrowings under OpCo's senior secured credit facility and the Stateline Promissory Note. Cash interest expense for the three months ended February 29, 2016 relates to fees associated with outstanding borrowings under OpCo's senior secured credit. Non-cash interest expense for the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016 relates to debt issuance costs associated with OpCo's senior secured credit facility. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 7- Debt and Financing Obligations" for rates and borrowing activity. The interest incurred related to our projects that are under construction is not reflected as an expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations, as it is capitalized to construction-in-progress until the solar power system is ready for its intended use. Interest expense for the three months ended February 28, 2017 included $0.2 million of non-cash interest expense and $5.3 million of cash interest expense, compared to total interest expense for the three months ended February 29, 2016 which included $0.1 million of non-cash interest expense and $2.8 million of cash interest expense. The non-cash interest expense increase of $0.1 million for the three months ended February 28, 2017 as compared to the three months ended February 29, 2016 was primarily driven by the debt issuance costs associated with the additional drawdowns of our $250.0 million incremental term loan facility and $200.0 million revolving credit facility. The cash interest expense increase of $2.5 million, or 89%, for the three months ended February 28, 2017 as compared to the three months ended February 29, 2016 was primarily driven by the fees associated with additional drawdowns under the $250.0 million incremental term loan facility and $200.0 million revolving credit facility, and the Stateline Promissory Note issued on December 1, 2016. Interest Income: Interest income represents the accrued interest on reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project and the Kingbird Project. These costs plus accrued interest are reimbursable by the applicable utility company over five years when the project achieves commercial operation. Interest income was $0.3 million for both the three months ended February 28, 2017 and February 29, 2016. Other Expense (income): Other expense (income) for the three months ended February 28, 2017 relates to (i) a $0.7 million unrealized gain related to the mark-to-market valuation adjustment of interest rate swaps associated with our term loan facility, and (ii) $0.1 million of payments received under the Partnership's O&M agreement with First Solar associated with performance of certain projects.Other expense (income) for the three months ended February 29, 2016 relates to a $0.1 million unrealized loss related to the mark-to-market valuation adjustment of interest rate swaps associated with our term loan facility. We enter into interest rate swap agreements to economically hedge the cash flows on our term loan facility. The changes in fair value are recorded in other expense (income), net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations as these hedges are not accounted for under hedge accounting. Income Tax Provision 41 Our tax rate is primarily affected by the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. We included the income tax provisio n related to our equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees in the income tax provision line of the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Our income tax provision primarily represents deferred federal and state taxes on the net income of OpCo, a non-taxable partnership, that is allocated to the Partnership (exclusive of income tax but after noncontrolling interest). The decrease in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the three months ended February 28, 2017 of 5.4% compared to 49.8% for the three months ended February 29, 2016 is the result of (i) an increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and (ii) higher losses before income taxes for the three months ended February 28, 2017 of $5.4 million compared to losses before income taxes of $3.9 million for the three months ended February 29, 2016. Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Investees Equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees represents our proportionate share of the earnings and losses from our minority membership interests accounted for as equity method investments, including SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings, Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings. We own a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings and Henrietta Holdings, and a 34% ownership interest in Stateline Holdings. Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings were acquired subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests We apply the HLBV method in allocating recorded net income (loss) to each tax equity investor based on the change during the reporting period of the amount of net assets of the entity to which each tax equity investor would be entitled to under the governing contractual arrangements in a liquidation scenario. If the redemption value of our redeemable noncontrolling interests exceeds their carrying value after attribution of income (loss) under the HLBV method in any period, we will make an additional attribution of income to our redeemable noncontrolling interests such that their carrying value will at least equal the redemption value. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for the three months ended February 28, 2017 included a net loss of $8.8 million attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, partially offset by net income of $2.6 million attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for the three months ended February 29, 2016 included a net loss of $34.9 million attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, partially offset by net income of $22.6 million attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. 42 Cash Flows Three Months Ended February 28, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended February 29, 2016 A summary of the sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for three months ended February 28, 2017 was $9.5 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $1.1 million in cash distributions received from equity method investees that were classified in operating activities as returns on the investments; (ii) adjustment for non-cash charges of $7.7 million, including $6.9 million depreciation of operating lease assets and solar power systems, a $0.6 million charge for deferred income taxes, a $0.2 million charge for amortization of debt issuance costs, and $0.1 million of share-based compensation; (iii) a $5.6 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets; (iv) a $1.5 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities; and (v) a $0.5 million decrease in accounts receivable and financing receivable, net. This was partially offset by: (i) a net loss of $5.3 million; (ii) a $0.3 million decrease in deferred revenue on operating leases; and (iii) adjustments for non-cash income of $1.3 million, including $0.6 million equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees and $0.7 million mark-to-market gain on interest rate swaps. Net cash provided by operating activities for three months ended February 29, 2016 was $2.9 million and was primarily the result of: (i) adjustment for non-cash charges of $8.6 million, including $4.6 million depreciation of operating lease assets and solar power systems, a $3.5 million charge for deferred income taxes, a $0.2 million charge for amortization of debt issuance costs, a $0.1 million change in allowance for doubtful accounts associated with financing receivables, a $0.1 million of share-based compensation, and a $0.1 million mark-to-market loss on cash flow hedges; (ii) $2.7 million of cash distributions received for equity method investees that was classified in operating activities; and (iii) a $0.6 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. This was partially offset by: (i) a net loss of $7.1 million; (ii) a $0.5 million increase in accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net; (iii) a $0.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets; (iv) a $0.4 million adjustment for equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees; and (v) a $0.3 million decrease in deferred revenue on operating leases. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended February 28, 2017 was $287.9 and was primarily the result of: (i) $304.4 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of the Stateline Project, the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets, and the Macy's Maryland Project, and (ii) capital expenditures of $0.1 million, which were due to the purchases of property and equipment. These outflows were offset by $16.6 million in distributions from unconsolidated investees classified in investing activities as returns of the investments. Net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended February 29, 2016 was $38,000 and was primarily the result of: (i) $3.6 million of cash distributions from unconsolidated investees, and (ii) $1.3 million of cash provided by purchases of property and equipment, net, which consists of $1.0 million in collections of test energy billings and $0.3 million received in state and local rebates associated with certain solar power systems. These inflows were offset by capital expenditures of $4.9 million, which were due to the purchases of property and equipment associated with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition in January 2016. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended February 28, 2017 was $271.2 million due to: (i) a $250.0 million draw down under the incremental term loan facility in connection with the Stateline Acquisition; (ii) a $20.0 million and $6.0 million draw down under the revolving credit facility in connection with the Stateline Acquisition and the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition, respectively; and (iii) $18.7 million of cash contributions from tax equity investors. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $12.7 million of cash distributions to our Sponsors as OpCo's common and subordinated unitholders; (ii) $7.0 million of cash distributions to our Class A shareholders; (iii) the repayment of the $2.0 million Short-term Note to First Solar; and (iv) $1.9 million of cash distributions to tax equity investors. 43 Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended February 29, 2016 was $5.1 million due to $10.0 million in capital contributions from SunPower as an indemnity per the Omnibus Agreement for a short-fall associated with reimbu rsable costs for the Quinto Project network upgrade. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $4.3 million of cash distributions to our Class A shareholders; and (ii) $0.5 million of cash distributions to tax equity investors. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity as of February 28, 2017 was $63.1 million, consisting of $7.0 million cash on hand and $56.1 million of available capacity under our five-year revolving credit facility. Sources of Liquidity We expect our ongoing sources of liquidity to include cash on hand, cash generated from operations (excluding cash distributions to minority investors), distributions and dividends from the operations of our equity investments, borrowings under new and existing financing arrangements (the aggregate amount of which may be lower because of our reduced ownership in projects subject to tax equity financing) and the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. We may also incur debt at the project level, which may be limited by the rights of our tax equity investors and current debt covenants. We expect that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide for our short-term and long-term liquidity needs. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and other capital requirements, including capital expenditures, as well as make acquisitions, will depend on our future operating performance which, in turn, will be subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. We believe that we will have sufficient borrowings available under our revolving credit facility, liquid assets and cash flows from operations to meet our financial commitments, debt service obligations, contingencies and anticipated required capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, we have an active shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. Term Loans, Delayed Draw Term Loan, Revolving Credit Facility and Stateline Promissory Note On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. OpCo borrowed $300.0 million under the term loan facility on June 5, 2015, which indebtedness will mature on June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the $525.0 million credit facility will become due and payable. There will be no principal amortization over the term of the credit facility. The discount and incremental debt issuance costs associated with these borrowings were $3.1 million, which included $1.7 million of debt issuance costs paid with a portion of the proceeds and $1.4 million related to a reclassification of capitalized issuance costs on the Predecessor's historical financial statements, and were reported as a direct deduction from the face amount of the note. The Partnership used the net proceeds of the term loan facility to pay distributions of $129.4 million and $168.9 million to First Solar and SunPower, respectively. On March 30, 2016, in connection with the Kingbird Acquisition and the Hooper Acquisition, OpCo drew down $40.0 million from its revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from its delayed draw term loan facility. On September 29, 2016, in connection with the Henrietta Acquisition, OpCo drew down $23.0 million from its revolving credit facility. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit facility, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million. On December 1, 2016, in connection with the Stateline Acquisition, OpCo drew down $250.0 million under the incremental term loan facility and $20.0 million under the revolving credit facility. On February 24, 2017 in connection with the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition, OpCo drew down $6.0 million under the revolving credit facility. OpCo also issued the Stateline Promissory Note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million. The Stateline Promissory Note is unsecured and matures on the date that is six months after the maturity date under OpCo's credit facility. Interest will accrue at a rate of four percent 4% per annum, except it will accrue at a rate of six percent 6% per annum (i) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a specified event of default and (ii) in respect of amounts accrued as payments-in-kind pursuant to the terms of the note. As of February 28, 2017, OpCo had outstanding borrowings of the $300.0 million under the term loan facility, $250.0 million under the incremental term loan facility, $25.0 million under the delayed draw term loan facility, $89.0 million under the revolving credit facility, approximately $54.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and $50.0 million Stateline Promissory Note. The remaining portion of the revolving credit facility is undrawn as of February 28, 2017. OpCo's credit facility is collateralized by a pledge over the equity of OpCo and certain of its subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. 44 In general, the credit facility contains representations, warranties, covenants (including financial covenants) and defaults that are customary for this type of financing; provided, however, that OpCo is permi tted to pay distributions to its unitholders and we are permitted to pay distributions to our shareholders out of available cash so long as no default or event of default under the credit facility has occurred or is continuing at the time of such distribut ion, or would result therefrom, and OpCo is otherwise in compliance, on a pro forma basis, with the facility's covenants requiring it to maintain its debt to cash flow ratio and debt service coverage ratio (as such financial ratios are described below). Am ong other things, events of defaults that could result in restrictions on our ability to make such distributions include certain failures to make payments when due under the credit facility, certain defaults under other agreements, breaches of certain cove nants and representations under the credit facility, commencement of certain insolvency proceedings, the existence of certain judgments or attachments, certain orders of dissolution of loan parties, certain events relating to employee benefit plans, the oc currence of a change of control (as more fully described below), certain events relating to the effectiveness and validity of the guaranties and collateral documents in support of the credit facility (as described below) and other credit documents and, und er certain circumstances, the termination of the Omnibus Agreement or the Quinto PPA. Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subjec t to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. In the future, we may increase our debt to fund our operations or future acquisitions. OpCo's credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain the following financial ratios: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not more than (a) 6.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending November 30, 2016 through November 30, 2017, and (b) 5.50 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of us or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. On April 5, 2017, First Solar notified our general partner's board of directors of its intention to explore alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership. Following such announcement, SunPower also notified our general partner's board of directors that it is exploring alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership, including but not limited to seeking a potential new partner in the Partnership. Although our Sponsors have publicly announced their current intentions, there is no assurance that either or both of our Sponsors will pursue or effect any particular alternative. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. The Joinder Agreement amended OpCo's credit facility to permit OpCo to incur up to $50.0 million in subordinated indebtedness from First Solar or its affiliate to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Stateline Project. As of February 28, 2017, the Partnership was in compliance with its debt covenants. ATM Program On January 30, 2017, the Partnership established the ATM Program under which the Partnership may sell its Class A shares from time to time through the ATM Agents up to an aggregate sales price of $125.0 million. The Partnership may also sell its Class A shares to any ATM Agent, as principal for its own account, at a price agreed upon at the time of the sale. The Partnership will use the net proceeds from sales under the ATM Program to purchase a number of common units in OpCo equal to the number of Class A shares issued under the ATM Program. OpCo may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, repaying borrowings under the Stateline Promissory Note and OpCo's credit facilities, and funding working capital or acquisitions. No shares were issued under the ATM Program during the quarter ended February 28, 2017. Tax Equity Our projects are, and our future acquisitions are expected to be, subject to two types of tax equity financing. In the first type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. To the extent we want to incur project-level debt at a project in which we co-invest with a tax equity investor, we may be required to obtain the tax equity investor's consent prior to such incurrence. In addition, the amount of debt that could be incurred by an entity in which we have a tax equity co-investor may be further constrained because even if the tax equity investor consents to the incurrence of the debt at the entity or project level, the tax equity investor may not agree to pledge its interest in the project which could reduce the amount that can be borrowed and raise the cost of borrowing by the entity. 45 In the second type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a majority interest in the project. In such agreeme nts, we will only have a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. In most cases, since we are not the majority owner, we will not be able to direct the actions of the entity that owns such asset. As such, we may not be able to incur debt at the entity or project level, without the consent of the majority owner. Uses of Liquidity Our principal requirements for liquidity and capital resources, other than for operating our business, can generally be categorized into the following: (i) debt service obligations; (ii) funding acquisitions, if any; and (iii) cash distributions to shareholders. Generally, once COD is reached, solar power generation assets do not require significant capital expenditures to maintain operating performance. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of February 28, 2017: (1) Land use commitments primarily relate to a non-cancellable operating lease for the Quinto Project and two operating leases for the Kingbird Project, and are equal to the minimum lease and easement payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which solar power systems are located. (2) Includes $300.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015 (in connection with our IPO) which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the term loan facility will become due. From August 31, 2016 to August 31, 2018, which is the term of the interest rate swap, the interest payments are estimated based on the fixed swap interest rate of 0.85% plus the 2% margin for the notional amount of $250.0 million. From January 7, 2017 to August 31, 2018, which is the term of the interest rate swap, the interest payments are estimated based on the fixed swap interest rate of 1.16% plus the 2% margin for the notional amount of $40.0 million. The interest payments for the remaining $10.0 million notional amount through the maturity date, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 2.78% per annum effective as of February 28, 2017. (3) Includes $250.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the incremental term loan facility entered into by OpCo on September 30, 2016 (in connection with the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit facility) which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the incremental term loan facility will become due. The interest payments for the $250.0 million notional amount through the maturity date, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 2.78% per annum effective as of February 28, 2017. (4) Includes $25.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and $89.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015, which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and the revolving credit facility will become due. The interest payments for the $114.0 million notional amount through the maturity date, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 2.78% per annum effective as of February 28, 2017. (5) Includes $50.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Stateline Promissory Note by OpCo to First Solar on December 1, 2016 which will mature on December 5, 2020. Interest payments are estimated based a rate of 4% per annum. 46 Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements As of February 28, 2017, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements. 47 I tem 3. Quantitative and Qualitati ve Disclosures About Market Risk. We are exposed to several market risks in our normal business activities. Market risk is the potential loss that may result from market changes associated with our business or with an existing or forecasted financial or commodity transaction. The types of market risks to which we are exposed include credit risk and interest rate risk. Any market risk sensitive instruments that we have entered into are for hedging purposes, rather than for speculative trading. Credit Risk Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from non-performance or non-payment by offtake counterparties under the terms of their contractual obligations, thereby impacting the amount and timing of expected cash flows. We monitor and manage credit risk through credit policies that include the use of credit mitigation measures such as having a diversified portfolio of offtake counterparties. However, there are a limited number of offtake counterparties under our offtake agreements, which offtake counterparties are entities engaged in the energy industry, and this concentration may impact the overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that the offtake counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, industry or other conditions. If any of these offtake agreement customers' receivable balances in the future should be deemed uncollectible, it could have a material adverse effect on our forecasted cash flows. As of February 28, 2017 and November 30, 2016, two offtake counterparties were placed on CreditWatch by Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services, increasing our credit risk associated with these customers. Please read Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-We rely on a limited number of offtake counterparties and we are exposed to the risk that they are unwilling or unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or that they otherwise terminate their offtake agreements with us" and Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties-Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement." Credit risk under the residential lease program is limited because customers are required to have a minimum FICO credit score at the time of initial contract, the existing customer base is of high credit quality with an average FICO credit score of 765 at the time of initial contract, the program has a large number of customers with small account balances for each, and the customers are diversified geographically within the United States. As of February 28, 2017, we do not believe we had significant credit risk under the residential lease program. Credit risk also relates to the risk of loss resulting from non-performance or non-payment by our Sponsors under the terms of their contractual obligations, including indemnity, reimbursement and other payment obligations under the Omnibus Agreement, thereby impacting the amount and timing of expected cash flows. Our ability to mitigate such risk with respect to the Sponsors is limited. Please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-We are exposed to the credit risk of our Sponsors, and any deterioration of our Sponsors' creditworthiness could adversely affect our business, our credit ratings and our overall risk profile" in the 2016 10-K. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to interest rate risk because we depend on debt financing to purchase our projects. An increase in interest rates could make it difficult for us to obtain the financing necessary to purchase our projects on favorable terms, or at all, and thus reduce revenue and adversely impact our operating results. An increase in interest rates could lower our return on investment in a project and adversely impact our operating results. This risk is significant to our business because our growth is highly sensitive to interest rate fluctuations and the availability of credit, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or liquidity constraints. Our interest expense would increase to the extent interest rates rise in connection with our variable interest rate borrowings. As of February 28, 2017, the outstanding principal balance of our variable interest borrowings was $664.0 million, of which $374.0 million is unhedged. An immediate 10% increase in interest rates would have an increase of approximately $1.0 million of annualized interest expenses on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. This increase was mitigated by interest rate swaps that we entered into on August 31, 2016 and January 5, 2017 in connection with our term loan facility, which covered $250.0 million and $40.0 million, respectively, of the $664.0 million outstanding principal balance. As of February 28, 2017, our investment portfolio consisted of 100% in demand deposits. In addition, increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our Class A shares, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. As with other yield-oriented securities, our share price is impacted by our level of cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our shares, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our Class A shares, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. 48Item 1. Financial Statements. 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party balances for transactions made with the Sponsors and tax equity investors. Related-party balances recorded within "Prepaid and other current assets" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $0.8 million and $0.9 million as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. Related-party balances recorded within "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $6.3 million and $19.7 million due to Sponsors as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.0 million due to tax equity investors as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. Related-party balances recorded within "Short-term debt and financing obligations" and "Long-term debt and financing obligations" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $2.2 million and $47.8 million , respectively, as of May31, 2017 , and $2.0 million and zero , respectively, as of November30, 2016 . The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party activities for transactions made with the Sponsors. Related party transactions recorded within "Operating revenues" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $1.3 million for each of the three months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , and $2.6 million for each of the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 . Related party transactions recorded within "Operating costs and expenses" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $2.2 million and $1.7 million for the three months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively, and $4.2 million and $3.1 million for the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Equity (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 10 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 11 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Description of Business The Partnership 8point3 Energy Partners LP (together with its subsidiaries, the "Partnership") is a limited partnership formed on March 3, 2015 under a master formation agreement by SunPower Corporation ("SunPower") and First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar" and, together with SunPower, the "Sponsors") to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation systems. As of May31, 2017 , 8point3 Energy Partners LP owned a controlling non-economic managing member interest in 8point3 Operating Company, LLC ("OpCo") and a 35.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo, and the Sponsors collectively owned a noncontrolling 64.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo. The following table provides an overview of the assets that comprise the Portfolio as of May31, 2017 : 12 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) For the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project, and the Kern Project, COD represents the first date on which all of the solar generation systems within each of the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Kern Project, respectively, have achieved or are expected to achieve COD. For the Residential Portfolio, COD represents the first date on which all of the residential systems within the Residential Portfolio have achieved COD. (2) The MW for the projects in which the Partnership owns less than a 100% interest or in which the Partnership is the lessor under any sale-leaseback financing are shown on a gross basis. (3) Remaining term of offtake agreement is measured from the later of May31, 2017 or the expected COD of the applicable project. (4) Remaining term comprised of 1.6 years on a PPA with the City of Roseville, California, followed by a 25 -year PPA with PG&E starting in 2019. (5) The Kingbird Project is subject to two separate PPAs with member cities of the Southern California Public Power Authority. (6) OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project is being effectuated in phases, with the closing of the first phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 3 MW, having occurred on January 26, 2016, the closing of the second phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 5 MW, having occurred on September 9, 2016, the closing of the third phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 5 MW, having occurred on November 30, 2016, the closing of the fourth phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 3 MW, having closed on February 24, 2017. (7) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of the first four phases of the Kern Project. (8) Comprised of the approximately 5,800 solar installations located at homes in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont, that are held by the Residential Portfolio Project Entity and have an aggregate nameplate capacity of 39 MW. (9) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of all of the residential leases, in each case measured from May31, 2017 . Basis of Presentation and Preparation The direct and indirect contributions of the IPO Project Entities by the Sponsors to OpCo in connection with the IPO resulted in a business combination for accounting purposes with the IPO SunPower Project Entities being considered the acquirer of the interests contributed by First Solar in the IPO First Solar Project Entities. Therefore, the IPO SunPower Project Entities constitute the "Predecessor." As used herein, the term "IPO Project Entities" refers to: the IPO SunPower Project Entities, including: the Macy's California Project Entities, which hold the Macy's California Project; the Quinto Project Entity, which holds the Quinto Project; the RPU Project Entity, which holds the RPU Project; the UC Davis Project Entity, which holds the UC Davis Project; and the Residential Portfolio Project Entity, which holds the Residential Portfolio Project; and the IPO First Solar Project Entities, including: the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, which holds the Lost Hills Project and the Blackwell Project; the Maryland Solar Project Entity, which holds the Maryland Solar Project; the North Star Project Entity, which holds the North Star Project; and the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity, which holds the Solar Gen 2 Project. In connection with the IPO, SunPower contributed a nearly 100% interest in each of the IPO SunPower Project Entities to OpCo, subject, in the case of the Quinto Project, the RPU Project, the UC Davis Project and the Macy's California Project, to the tax equity investor's right to a varying portion of the cash flows from the projects. In connection with the IPO, First Solar directly contributed to OpCo a 100% interest in the Maryland Solar Project Entity and indirectly contributed to OpCo a 49% economic interest in each of the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the North Star Project and the Solar Gen 2 Project. Since November 30, 2015, the partnership completed six acquisitions from our Sponsors, four from SunPower and two from First Solar. Four of the acquisitions are treated as business combinations: 13 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued the Kern Project Entity, which holds the Kern Project; the Kingbird Project Entities, which holds the Kingbird Project; the Hooper Project Entity, which holds the Hooper Project; and the Macy's Maryland Project Entity, which holds the Macy's Maryland Project. Two of the acquisitions are accounted for as equity method investments: the Henrietta Project Entity, which holds the Henrietta Project. OpCo owns a 49% economic interest in the Henrietta Project Entity; and the Stateline Project Entity, which holds the Stateline Project. OpCo owns a 34% economic interest in the Stateline Project Entity. Principles of Consolidation The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and include the accounts of the Partnership, and all of its subsidiaries, as appropriate under consolidation accounting guidelines. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from the audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates in which the Partnership has less than a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All significant inter-entity accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments (consisting of normal, recurring items) necessary to state fairly its financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the accounting policies previously disclosed in Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 1-Description of Business" and "-Note 2-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the 2016 10-K. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year. Management Estimates The preparation of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the assumptions and methodology underlying allowances for doubtful accounts related to accounts receivable and financing receivables; estimates of future cash flows and economic useful lives of property and equipment; the fair value and residual value of leased solar power systems; fair value of financial instruments; fair value of acquired assets and liabilities; valuation of certain accrued liabilities such as accrued system output performance warranty and AROs; and income taxes including the related valuation allowance. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In January 2017, the FASB issued an update to clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is applied prospectively. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In October 2016, the FASB issued an update which amends the guidance on related parties that are under common control. Specifically, this update requires that a single decision maker consider indirect interests held by related parties under common control on a proportionate basis in a manner consistent with its evaluation of indirect interests held through other related parties. That is, the single decision maker does not consider indirect interests held through related parties as equivalent to direct interests in determining whether it meets the economics criterion to be a primary beneficiary. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In October 2016, the FASB issued an update which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory, such as property and equipment, when such transfer occurs. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and shall be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the 14 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued beginning of the period of adoption. Early adoption is permitted. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In August 2016, the FASB issued an update to the statement of cash flows guidance, which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. One identified cash flow issue relates to distributions received from equity method investees whereby the reporting entity should make an accounting policy election to classify distributions received from equity method investees using either the cumulative earnings approach or the nature of the distribution approach. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and is applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Partnership is evaluating the change in accounting policy from the cumulative earnings approach to the nature of the distribution approach and the impact on its consolidated statements of cash flows and disclosures. In March 2016, the FASB issued an update to the equity method investments guidance, which eliminates the requirement that an entity retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting if an investment qualifies for use of the equity method as a result of an increase in the level of ownership or degree of influence. The update requires that the equity method investor add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2017 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In February 2016, the FASB issued an update to the lease accounting guidance, which requires entities to begin recording assets and liabilities arising from substantially all leases on the balance sheet. The new guidance will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In August 2014, the FASB issued an update to the standards to require management to evaluate whether there are conditions and events that raise substantial doubt about the Partnership's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued, and to provide related disclosures. The Partnership adopted the new guidance beginning on December 1, 2016 and the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures is not material. In May 2014, the FASB issued a new revenue recognition standard based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The FASB has issued several updates to the standard which (i) clarify the application of the principal versus agent guidance; (ii) clarify the guidance relating to performance obligations and licensing; and (iii) clarify assessment of the collectability criterion, presentation of sales taxes, measurement date for non-cash consideration and completed contracts at transaction. The new revenue recognition standard, amended by the updates, becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is to be applied retrospectively using one of two prescribed methods. Early adoption is permitted. The Partnership is currently evaluating and considering the possibility of early adoption of the new standard effective December 1, 2017. The Partnership's ability to early adopt, potentially using the modified retrospective method, is dependent on process, internal control and system readiness and a complete evaluation of all the disclosures required under the new standard. While the Partnership is continuing to assess all potential impacts of the standard, it currently believes the impact on its consolidated financial statements is not material because over 90% of the Partnership's total revenue for all periods is comprised of lease revenue, which is substantially unchanged under the new standard. Other than as described above, there has been no issued accounting guidance not yet adopted by the Partnership that it believes is material or potentially material to its consolidated financial statements. 15 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 2. Business Combinations Acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that must be completed as of the acquisition date. The judgments made in the context of the purchase price allocation can materially impact the Partnership's future results of operations. The Partnership's purchase price allocations for acquisitions completed through November30, 2016 are final and not subject to revision. For the acquisition completed during the six months ended May31, 2017 , the valuation is based on the preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests as of the acquisition date, and is subject to change as the Partnership obtains additional information for its estimates during the respective measurement period. Kern Acquisition: On January 26, 2016, OpCo and SunPower entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement, which was amended on September 28, 2016, November 30, 2016 and February 24, 2017, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project. OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project is being effectuated in phases summarized below: (i) Phase 1(a): On January 26, 2016, 8point3 OpCo Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of OpCo ("OpCo Holdings"), acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership.Prior to the date of the execution of the Kern Purchase Agreement and in connection with the closing of the tax equity financing for the Kern Project, described below, the Kern Project Entity, an indirect subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership, acquired the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. The initial phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition." (ii) Phase 1(b) : On September 9, 2016, the Kern Project Entity acquired the assets included in the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets from SunPower. The second phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition." (iii) Phase 2(a): On November 30, 2016, the Kern Project Entity acquired the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets from SunPower. The third phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition." (iv) Phase 2(b): On February 24, 2017, the Kern Project Entity acquired the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets from SunPower. The fourth phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition." (v) Phase 2(c): On June 9, 2017, the Kern Project Entity acquired the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets from SunPower. The fifth phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 2(c) Acquisition." Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events". The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition is $36.7 million in cash, of which OpCo paid approximately $4.9 million on January27, 2016 in connection with the closing of the first phase on January 26, 2016, approximately $9.2 million on September9, 2016 in connection with the closing of the second phase on September 9, 2016, approximately $8.4 million on November 30, 2016 in connection with the closing of the third phase on November 30, 2016, and approximately $6.0 million on February 24, 2017 in connection with the closing of the fourth phase on February 24, 2017. In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a monthly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point is achieved.After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase.In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. The tax equity investor will make capital contributions to fund purchase price payments up to approximately $30.0 million , of which $0.9 million , $1.8 million , $1.3 million , $6.7 million , and $8.2 million was paid on January 22, 2016, September 9, 2016, November 30, 2016, December 14, 2016, and February 24, 2017, respectively. The remaining capital contribution balance of up to $11.1 million will be made when the Kern Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments. For more information about our tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of our 2016 10-K. The Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition, and the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition qualify as business combinations and the Partnership accounts for the transactions under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Kern 16 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets are disclosed in the following table. Valuation methodology: The Partnership utilized the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to value property and equipment for the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets. Key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow method included forecasted pre-tax cash flows, forecasted taxable income and discount rates. All estimates, key assumptions and forecasts were reviewed by the Partnership and the fair value analyses and related valuations represent the conclusions of management. Supplementary Data: The results of operations for each phase of the Kern Project acquisition have been included in the Partnership's consolidated statements of operations since their respective dates of acquisition. The Kern Phase 2(b) Assets contributed approximately $0.2 million to the Partnership's operating revenue in both of the three and six months ended May31, 2017 , and increased operating income by less than $0.1 million . Pro forma results of operations have not been presented as the impact of the acquisition on February 24, 2017 is not material to the Partnership's results of operations for the current or prior periods. Additionally, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets became operational after the acquisition date and therefore, would not have had any pro forma results in the prior period. Note 3. Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates On November 11, 2016, OpCo entered into the Stateline Purchase Agreement with First Solar to acquire a 34% interest in the Stateline Project for $329.5 million (the "Stateline Acquisition"). The Stateline Acquisition closed on December 1, 2016 and the Partnership recorded an investment of $329.9 million after consideration of acquisition-related costs. As of May31, 2017 , the Partnership owns a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings and Henrietta Holdings, and a 34% ownership interest in Stateline Holdings. The minority membership interests are accounted for as equity method investments, as the Partnership is able to exercise significant influence through its governing board, while the non-affiliated majority owner otherwise controls. The following table summarizes the activity of the Partnership's investments in its unconsolidated affiliates during each of the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively: (1) The net income (loss) used to determine the Partnership's equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates reflects adjustments pursuant to the equity method of accounting, including the amortization of basis differences resulting from the Partnership's proportionate share of certain equity method investees' net assets exceeding their carrying values. 17 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The difference between the amounts at which the Partnership's investments in unconsolidated affiliates are carried and the Partnership's proportionate share of the equity method investee's net assets for equity method investments was $138.5 million and $83.2 million as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. The Partnership accretes the basis difference over the life of the underlying assets and the accretion expense was $1.0 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively, and $2.0 million and $0.8 million for the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively. The following table presents summarized financial information of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings, Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings as derived from the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of such entities for the each of the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively: Note 4. Balance Sheet Components Financing Receivables The Partnership's net investment in sales-type leases presented in "Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net" and "Long-term financing receivables, net" on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets is as follows: (1) Allowance for losses on financing receivables was $0.6 million and $0.7 million as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. (2) Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets includes other trade accounts receivable of $6.0 million and $2.9 million as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. 18 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Current and Non-current Assets (1) For the Kingbird Project and the Quinto Project, the construction costs related to the network upgrade of a transmission grid belonging to a utility company are reimbursable by that utility company over five years from the date the project reached commercial operation. (2) Other current assets included $0.3 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.1 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.2 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of May31, 2017 . Similarly, other current assets included $0.5 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.2 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.3 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the consolidated balance sheet as of November30, 2016 . (3) Construction-in-progress is the project assets related to the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. (4) Intangible assets represent a customer contract intangible that is amortized on a straight-line basis beginning on COD through the contract term end date of December 31, 2020. Operating revenues were reduced by $0.1 million and $0.2 million in the three and six months ended May31, 2017 , respectively. Operating revenues were not affected by intangible assets in the three and six months ended May31, 2016. Current Liabilities 19 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) Related party payable on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of May31, 2017 consists of (i) $5.8 million related to the purchase price payable to SunPower, which will be funded by tax equity investors for the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition and the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition; (ii) $0.8 million related to accrued distribution to tax equity investors; and (iii) $0.4 million for accounts payable to related parties associated with O&M, AMA and MSA fees owed to the Sponsors. Related party payable on the consolidated balance sheets as of November30, 2016 consists of (i) $19.5 million related to the purchase price payable to SunPower for the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition and the Macy's Maryland Acquisition; (ii) $1.0 million related to accrued distribution to tax equity investors; and (iii) $0.1 million for accounts payable to related parties associated with O&M, AMA and MSA fees owed to the Sponsors. Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies Land Use Commitments The Partnership is a party to various agreements that provide for payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which projects under PPAs are located. The total minimum lease and easement commitments at May31, 2017 under these land use agreements are as follows: Solar Power System Performance Warranty Lease agreements require the Partnership to undertake a system output performance warranty. The Partnership has recorded in "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" amounts related to these system output performance warranties totaling $0.1 million and $0.2 million as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. The Partnership has also recorded in "Other current assets" amounts of $0.1 million and $0.2 million as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , relating to anticipated performance warranty reimbursements from the O&M provider. The following table summarizes accrued system output performance warranty activity for the each of three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively: Asset Retirement Obligations The Partnership's AROs are based on estimated third-party costs associated with the decommissioning of the applicable project assets. Revisions to these costs may increase or decrease in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications, inflation or other factors. Decommissioning activities generally occur over a period of time commencing at the end of the system's life. The following table summarizes ARO activity for each of the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively: 20 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Partnership may be notified of possible claims or assessments. The Partnership will record a provision for these claims when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss, or a range of the potential loss, can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed regularly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information or events pertaining to a particular case. Although the Partnership may, from time to time, be involved in litigation and claims arising out of its operations in the ordinary course of business, the Partnership is not a party to any litigation or governmental or other proceeding that the Partnership believes will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Environmental Contingencies The Partnership reviews its obligations as they relate to compliance with environmental laws, including site restoration and remediation. During each of the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , there were no known environmental contingencies that required the Partnership to recognize a liability. Note 6. Lease Agreements and Power Purchase Agreements Lease Agreements As of May31, 2017 , the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include approximately 5,800 residential lease agreements which have original terms of 20 years and are classified as either operating or sales-type leases. In addition, the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project has a lease term that will expire on December31, 2019 , and the lessee, who is an affiliate of First Solar, is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The following table presents the Partnership's minimum future rental receipts on operating leases (including the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project and the residential lease portfolio) placed in service as of May31, 2017 : (1) Minimum future rentals on operating leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. As of May31, 2017 , future maturities of net financing receivables for sales-type leases are as follows: 21 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) Minimum future rentals on sales-type leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. Power Purchase Agreements Under the terms of various PPAs, the Partnership's contracted counterparties may be obligated to take all or part of the output from the system at stipulated prices over defined periods. All PPAs associated with solar generation systems operating as of May31, 2017 have no minimum lease payments and all of the rental income under these leases is recorded as revenue when the electricity is delivered. SREC Sales Agreement The Partnership applies for and receives SRECs for power generated by certain of our solar power systems.The Partnership has entered into a sales agreement with a non-affiliated party (the "SREC Sales Agreement") to assist it in meeting its own emissions reduction or conservation requirements. Under the terms of the SREC Sales Agreement, the contracted counterparty is obligated to purchase an annual number of SRECs from the Partnership at stipulated prices over a defined period of time. The Partnership recognizes revenue and associated costs upon delivery of the SRECs to the counterparty.As of May31, 2017 , firm sales under the SREC Sales Agreement are as follows: Note 7. Debt and Financing Obligations The following table summarizes the Partnership's debt obligations on its unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets: Credit Facility On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended the credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Omnibus Agreement, (ii) to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into the Joinder Agreement, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million . Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. There will be no principal amortization over the term of the credit facility. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw 22 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued term loan facility at any time. OpCo has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the interest rate on a portion of the borrowings under the term loan facility. For more details, please read "-Note 8-Fair Value." OpCo's credit facility contains covenants including, among others, requiring the Partnership to maintain the following financial ratios: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio of not more than (a) 6.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending November 30, 2016 through November 30, 2017; and (b) 5.00 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of the Partnership or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. On April 5, 2017, First Solar notified our general partner's board of directors of its intention to explore alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership.Following such announcement, SunPower also notified our general partner's board of directors that it is exploring alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership, including but not limited to seeking a potential new partner in the Partnership.Although our Sponsors have publicly announced their current intentions, there is no assurance that either or both of our Sponsors will pursue or effect any particular alternative. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. The Joinder Agreement amended OpCo's credit facility to permit OpCo to incur up to $50.0 million in subordinated indebtedness from First Solar or its affiliate to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Stateline Project. As of May31, 2017 , the Partnership was in compliance with its debt covenants. OpCo's credit facility is collateralized by a pledge of the equity of OpCo and certain of its subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. As of both May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , OpCo had approximately $54.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Stateline Promissory Note On December 1, 2016, in connection with the Stateline Acquisition, OpCo issued a promissory note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million . The Stateline Promissory Note is unsecured and matures on the date that is six months after the maturity date under OpCo's credit facility. Interest will accrue at a rate of 4.00% per annum, except it will accrue at a rate of 6.00% per annum (i) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a specified event of default and (ii) in respect of amounts accrued as payments-in-kind pursuant to the terms of the note. OpCo is not permitted to prepay the $50.0 million promissory note without the consent of certain lenders under its existing credit agreement (except for certain mandatory prepayments). Until OpCo has paid in full the principal and interest on promissory note, OpCo is restricted in its ability to: (i) acquire interests in additional projects (other than the acquisition of the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets, and the Kern Remaining Assets); (ii) use the net proceeds of equity issuances except as prescribed in the promissory note; (iii) incur additional indebtedness to which the promissory note would be subordinate; and (iv) extend the maturity date under OpCo's existing credit facility. August 2011 Letter of Credit Facility with Deutsche Bank In August 2011, the Predecessor's parent, SunPower, entered into a letter of credit facility agreement with Deutsche Bank, as administrative agent, and certain financial institutions. Payment of obligations under the letter of credit facility is guaranteed by the majority shareholder of SunPower, Total S.A. As of May31, 2017 , and November30, 2016 , letters of credit issued and outstanding under the August 2011 letter of credit facility with Deutsche Bank which is available to SunPower for the Quinto Project and the RPU Project totaled $0.2 million and $11.5 million , respectively. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, SunPower, as the Sponsor who contributed the Quinto Project, canceled one of its letter of credit facilities associated with the Quinto Project upon its achieving COD in November 2015. Since the RPU Project achieved COD in September 2015, SunPower, as the Sponsor who contributed the RPU Project, canceled the related letters of credit, and the Partnership has issued the required letters of credit under its revolving credit facility. Note 8. Fair Value Fair value is estimated by applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement (observable inputs are the preferred basis of valuation): 23 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Level 1-Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2-Measurements are inputs that are observable for assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly, other than quoted prices included within Level 1. Level 3-Prices or valuations that require management inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. The first two levels in the hierarchy are considered observable inputs and the last is considered unobservable. Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following table presents the Partnership's assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis, categorized in accordance with the fair value hierarchy: Derivative financial instruments: On July 17, 2015, OpCo entered into interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $240.0 million . Under the interest rate swap agreements, OpCo paid a fixed swap rate of interest of 1.55% and the counterparties to the agreements paid a floating interest rate based on three-month LIBOR at quarterly intervals through the maturity date of August 31, 2018. OpCo had the right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and any quarterly fixed payment date thereafter with a minimum of five business days' notification. OpCo exercised its right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and entered into new interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $250.0 million .Under the new interest rate swap agreements, OpCo will pay a fixed swap rate of interest of approximately 0.85% and the counterparties to the agreements will pay a floating interest rate based on one-month LIBOR at monthly intervals through the maturity date of August 31, 2018. On January 5, 2017, OpCo entered into another interest rate swap agreement intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $40.0 million . Under this interest rate swap agreement, OpCo will pay a fixed swap rate of interest of approximately 1.16% and the counterparty to the agreement will pay a floating interest rate based on one-month LIBOR at monthly intervals through the maturity date of August31, 2018 . As of both May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , these interest rate swap agreements had not been designated as cash flow hedges and are reflected at fair value on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of both May31, 2017 , and November30, 2016 , these interest rate swap agreements have been presented in other long-term assets on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet since the maturity date is over one year after the balance sheet date.The Partnership recorded a change in fair value of less than $0.1 million during the three months ended May31, 2017 and $0.6 million during the six months ended May31, 2017 within other income and other expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. During each of the three and six months ended May31, 2016 , the Partnership recorded a change in fair value of $0.3 million within other income in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations.The primary inputs into the valuation of interest rate swaps are interest yield curves, interest rate volatility, and credit spreads. The Partnership's interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, since all significant inputs are corroborated by market observable data. There were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the period. Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis Long-term debt and financing obligations: The estimated fair value of the Partnership's long-term debt was classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , and approximated its carrying value of $718.9 million and $384.4 million , respectively. The term loan facility is a variable rate debt with the interest rate indexed to the market and reset on a frequent and short-term basis. The Stateline Promissory Note is a fixed rate debt and the fair value was estimated using the income approach based on observable market inputs. Note 9. Noncontrolling Interests 24 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Noncontrolling interests represent the portion of net assets in consolidated subsidiaries that are not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Partnership. For accounting purposes, the holders of noncontrolling interests of the Partnership include the Sponsors, which are SunPower and First Solar, as described in "-Note 1-Description of Business," and third-party investors under the tax equity financing facilities. As of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , First Solar and SunPower had noncontrolling interests of 28.0% and 36.5% , respectively, in OpCo. In addition, certain subsidiaries of OpCo have entered into tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems. The Partnership, through OpCo, holds controlling interests in these less-than-wholly-owned entities and has therefore fully consolidated these entities. The Partnership accounts for the portion of net assets using the HLBV Method in the consolidated entities attributable to the investors as "Redeemable noncontrolling interests" and "Noncontrolling interests" in its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries that are redeemable at the option of the noncontrolling interest holder are classified as "Redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries" between liabilities and equity on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and the balance is the greater of the carrying value calculated under the HLBV Method or the redemption value. During the three and six months ended May 31, 2017, OpCo acquired noncontrolling interests totaling zero and $1.1 million , respectively. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations" for further details. During the three and six months ended May 31, 2016, OpCo acquired noncontrolling interests totaling $35.4 million and $36.3 million , respectively. Please read "-Note 3-Business Combinations" of the 2016 10-K for further details. As of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , redeemable noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors after adjusting the carrying amount to the redemption value was $17.3 million and $17.6 million , respectively, and noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors were $41.4 million and $40.8 million , respectively. During the three months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received zero and $47.2 million , respectively, contributions from third-party investors under the related facilities and attributed $6.7 million and $52.9 million , respectively, in losses to the third-party investors primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received $18.8 million and $47.2 million , respectively, contributions from third-party investors under the related facilities and attributed $15.5 million and $87.8 million , respectively, in losses to the third-party investors primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During the three months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo made distributions to third-party investors under the related facilities of $2.5 million and $1.4 million , respectively. During the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo made distributions to third-party investors under the related facilities of $4.0 million and $2.6 million , respectively. The following table presents the noncontrolling interest balances by entity, reported in shareholders' equity in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 : Note 10. Shareholders' Equity On June 24, 2015, the Partnership completed its IPO by issuing 20,000,000 of its Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership to the public. On September 28, 2016 the Partnership sold in an underwritten registered public offering 8,050,000 Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership. ATM Program On January 30, 2017, the Partnership established the ATM Program under which the Partnership may sell Class A shares from time to time through the ATM Agents up to an aggregate sales price of $125.0 million .The Partnership may also sell 25 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Class A shares to any ATM Agent, as principal for its own account, at a price agreed upon at the time of the sale.The Partnership will use the net proceeds from sales under the ATM Program to purchase a number of common units in OpCo equal to the number of Class A shares issued under the ATM Program. OpCo may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, repaying borrowings under the Stateline Promissory Note and OpCo's credit facilities, and funding working capital or acquisitions. As of both May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , the Partnership owned a 35.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo as well as a controlling noneconomic managing member interest in OpCo, and the Sponsors collectively owned 51,000,000 Class B shares in the Partnership, with SunPower and First Solar having owned 28,883,075 and 22,116,925 Class B shares, respectively, and together, having owned a noncontrolling 64.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo. No shares were issued under the ATM Program during the quarter ended May31, 2017 . The following shares of the Partnership were outstanding as of May31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively: Cash Distribution On April14, 2017 , the Partnership distributed $7.2 million on its Class A shares and OpCo distributed $13.1 million on its common and subordinated units, or in each case $0.2565 per share or unit, for the period from December 1, 2016 to February 28, 2017. Note 11. Net Income Per Share Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Class A shareholders by the weighted average number of Class A shares outstanding for the applicable period. Diluted net income per share is computed using basic weighted average Class A shares outstanding plus, if dilutive, any potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period using the treasury-stock-type method. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement entered into among the Partnership, the General Partner, OpCo, a wholly owned subsidiary of SunPower and a wholly owned subsidiary of First Solar, the Sponsors can tender OpCo common units and an equal number of such Sponsor's Class B shares for redemption, and the Partnership has the right to directly purchase the tendered OpCo common units and Class B shares for, subject to the approval of its conflicts committee, cash or the issuance of Class A shares of the Partnership. If the Partnership elects to issue Class A shares, it would cancel the tendered Class B shares and hold the OpCo common units with the other OpCo common units it previously held, since the number of Class A shares issued must at all times equal the number of OpCo common units held by the Partnership. Since the Partnership would be holding additional OpCo common units, the net income attributable to Class A shares would proportionately increase, resulting in no change to net income per share for the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively. In addition, there were no potentially dilutive securities (including any stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units) for the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively. The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share: 26 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) Up to the amount of OpCo common units held by Sponsors Note 12. Related Parties Management Services Agreements Immediately prior to the completion of the IPO on June 24, 2015, the Partnership, together with the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings, entered into similar but separate MSAs with affiliates of each of the Sponsors (each, a "Service Provider"). Under the MSAs, the Service Providers provide or arrange for the provision of certain administrative and management services for the Partnership and certain of its subsidiaries, including managing the Partnership's day-to-day affairs, in addition to those services that are provided under existing O&M agreements and AMAs between affiliates of the Sponsors and certain of the subsidiaries of the Partnership. In August 2015, the First Solar MSA and the SunPower MSA were amended to adjust the annual management fee payable to each respective Service Provider. Under the First Solar MSA, OpCo pays an annual management fee of $0.6 million to the First Solar Service Provider. Under the SunPower MSA, OpCo pays an annual management fee of $1.1 million to the SunPower Service Provider. These payments are subject to annual adjustments for inflation. On January 20, 2017, the parties thereto amended the SunPower MSA to include Kingbird Solar, LLC and the Kingbird Project Entities under certain aspects of SunPower's scope of managerial services effective April 30, 2016 in return for the associated AMA fee payable by First Solar Asset Management, LLC. Costs incurred for these services were $0.4 million for each of the three months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively, and $0.9 million for each of the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively. EPC Agreements 27 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Various projects are designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to EPC agreements with affiliates of the Sponsors, which may include a 2 - to 10 -year system warranty against defects in materials, construction, fabrication and workmanship, and in some cases, may include a 25 -year power and product warranty on certain modules. As of May31, 2017 , all of the projects contributed by the Sponsors on the date of the IPO, along with the Henrietta Project, the Hooper Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern 2(b) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Stateline Project have achieved COD. The Kern Phase 1(a) Assets are construction-in-progress as of May31, 2017 and expected to achieve COD in September 2017. SunPower as the EPC provider is required to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, all the associated costs to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets are obligations of SunPower. O&M Agreements and Asset Management Agreements The Project Entities and certain other subsidiaries have entered into O&M agreements and AMAs with affiliates of the Sponsors, as applicable (except where such persons are otherwise subject to O&M agreements or AMAs with unaffiliated third parties). Under the terms of the O&M agreements and the AMAs, such affiliates have agreed to provide a variety of operation, maintenance and asset management services, and certain performance warranties or availability guarantees, to the subsidiaries of the Partnership in exchange for annual fees, which are subject to certain adjustments. Costs incurred for O&M and AMA services were $1.7 million and $1.3 million for the three months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively, and $3.3 million and $2.3 million for the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively. Omnibus Agreement The Partnership has entered into the Omnibus Agreement with its Sponsors, the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings. The material provisions of the Omnibus Agreement are as follows: (a) each Sponsor was granted an exclusive right to perform certain services not otherwise covered by an O&M agreement or an AMA on behalf of the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (b) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that had not achieved commercial operation as of the date contributed to the Partnership, the Sponsor who contributed such project agreed to pay to OpCo all costs required to complete such project, as well as certain liquidated damages in the event such project fails to achieve operability pursuant to an agreed schedule (subject to certain adjustments); (c) with respect to the Quinto Project and the North Star Project, the Sponsor who contributed such project agreed to pay to OpCo the difference, if any, between the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of such Sponsor's contributed project at the time of the IPO and the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received given the actual amount of upgrade costs incurred in respect of such project; (d) each Sponsor agreed to certain undertakings on the part of its affiliates who are members of the Project Entities or who provide asset management, construction, operating and maintenance and other services to the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (e) to the extent a Sponsor continues to post credit support on behalf of a Project Entity after it has been contributed to OpCo, OpCo agreed to reimburse such Sponsor upon any demand or draw under such credit support, and the Sponsor agreed to maintain such support pursuant to the applicable underlying contractual or regulatory requirements; (f) each Sponsor agreed to indemnify OpCo for any costs it incurs with respect to certain tax-related events and events in connection with tax equity financing arrangements; and (g) the parties agreed to a mutual undertaking regarding confidentiality and use of names, trademarks, trade names and other insignias. The schedules of the Omnibus Agreement are amended in connection with each project acquisition to include the solar power systems acquired effective the closing date of such acquisition. During the three months ended May31, 2017 , the Partnership received less than $0.1 million in indemnity payments from Sponsors. During the three months ended May31, 2016 , the Partnership did not receive any indemnity payments from Sponsors. During the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , the Partnership received $0.1 million and $10.0 million , respectively, related to the delay in commercial operations of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, and the shortfall associated with the network upgrade refunds and test energy projected to be received, respectively. Promissory Notes On November 25, 2015, OpCo issued a short-term promissory note to First Solar in the principal amount of $2.0 million (the "Short-term Note"), in exchange for First Solar's loan of such amount to OpCo. Upon the receipt of certain payments by the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity from SDG&E under the power purchase agreement between the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity and SDG&E, which had been previously withheld pending completion of an administrative requirement (each, a "Specified Payment"), OpCo was obligated to repay a portion of the principal amount of the Short-term Note equal to such Specified 28 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Payment and the unpaid balance of all interest accrued under the Short-term Note to and including the date of such repayment. Interest under the Short-term Note accrued at a rate of 1% on the portion of the principal of the Short-term Note equal to the amount of each Specified Payment from the date SDG&E remitted such payment to the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity through the date that OpCo repaid such amount to First Solar as described above. OpCo is permitted to prepay the Short-term Note at any time without penalty or premium. On December 30, 2016, OpCo repaid the Short-term Note to First Solar. In connection with the closing of the Stateline Acquisition on December 1, 2016, OpCo issued the Stateline Promissory Note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million . Please read "-Note 7- Debt and Financing Obligations" for further details. Purchase and Sale Agreements On November11, 2016 , OpCo entered into the Stateline Purchase Agreement with First Solar and First Solar Asset Management, LLC pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Stateline Project, as further described above in "-Note 3-Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates." Effective December 1, 2016, OpCo acquired Stateline Holdings from First Solar for a total purchase price of $329.5 million (before consideration of acquisition-related costs). On January26, 2016 , OpCo entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement with SunPower pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project, as further described above in "-Note 2-Business Combinations." Effective January 26, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership.Pursuant to the Kern Purchase Agreement, the purchase price for the Kern Project will be paid by OpCo when each phase of the project reaches "mechanical completion." In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a specified distribution waterfall. Purchase price payments of up to approximately $30.0 million , of which $0.9 million , $1.8 million , $1.3 million , $6.7 million , and $8.2 million was paid on January 22, 2016, September 9, 2016, November 30, 2016, December 14, 2016, and February 24, 2017, respectively. The remaining capital contribution balance of up to $11.1 million will be made when the Kern Project's phases meet certain construction milestones and will be transferred to affiliates of SunPower for the remaining purchase price payments. First Solar ROFO Agreement Pursuant to the First Solar ROFO Agreement, First Solar previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 179 MW Switch Station solar generation project in Nevada ("Switch Station"). On February 13, 2017, OpCo waived the 45 -day negotiation period under the First Solar ROFO Agreement with respect to Switch Station; following such waiver, First Solar has the right to offer and sell Switch Station to a third party, in accordance with the terms of the First Solar ROFO Agreement. Pursuant to the First Solar ROFO Agreement, First Solar previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years.Such solar projects included the 40 MW Cuyama solar generation project in California ("Cuyama") and the 280 MW California Flats solar generation project in California ("California Flats").On April 3, 2017, First Solar offered the Cuyama and California Flats projects to OpCo in accordance with the terms of the First Solar ROFO Agreement. On May 15, 2017, OpCo waived the 45-day negotiation period under the First Solar ROFO Agreement with respect to Cuyama and California Flats; following such waiver, First Solar has the right to offer and sell Cuyama and California Flats to a third party, in accordance with the terms of the First Solar ROFO Agreement. SunPower ROFO Agreement On February 13, 2017, OpCo entered into the Second Amendment and Waiver to Right of First Offer Agreement (the "Waiver") with SunPower. Pursuant to SunPower ROFO Agreement, SunPower previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of 5 years. Such solar projects included the 100 MW El Pelicano solar generation project in Chile ("El Pelicano").Pursuant to the Waiver, OpCo waived its rights under the ROFO Agreement with respect to El Pelicano. The Waiver also contains customary representations, warranties and agreements of OpCo and SunPower. Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement The Maryland Solar Project Entity has leased the Maryland Solar Project to an affiliate of First Solar. Under the arrangement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The lease agreement will expire on December31, 2019 (unless terminated earlier pursuant to its terms). 29 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. ("FirstEnergy"), the Partnership's offtake counterparty with respect to the Maryland Solar Project, had its credit rating downgraded multiple times in 2016. As of January 23, 2017, the credit rating of FirstEnergy was Caa1 and CCC+ by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, respectively, both of which are significantly below investment grade. On May 10, 2017, the credit rating of FirstEnergy was further downgraded from CCC+ to CCC by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. In addition, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services placed FirstEnergy on CreditWatch with negative implications, based on a $1.51 billion pretax impairment charge that the company's competitive business will incur from the deactivation of several coal units. In November 2016, FirstEnergy Corp., the parent of FirstEnergy, announced a strategic review of its competitive business, pursuant to which the company would seek to move away from competitive markets. FirstEnergy's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 reported a substantial uncertainty as to their ability to continue as a going concern. As further described Part III, Item 13. "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence-Agreements with our Sponsors-Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement" in the 2016 10-K, First Solar's affiliate is obligated underthe Maryland Solar lease arrangement to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. Such lease agreement will terminate upon any termination of the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project or the site ground lease.Pursuant to the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project, a FirstEnergy bankruptcy would be an event of default under the PPA, permitting (subject to applicable law) the termination of the PPA. Upon any such early termination of the lease agreement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to return the facility in its then-current condition and location to the Partnership, without any warranties, and no rent shall thereafter be payable by such First Solar affiliate. In the event that the PPA was terminated and First Solar were to subsequently terminate the Maryland Solar Lease Agreement, the Maryland Solar Project would have no agreement through which to sell the energy that it produces, which equates to approximately $8.0 million in annual revenue. As of May31, 2017 , FirstEnergy is current with respect to the payments due under the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project. Note 13. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal rate of 35% primarily due to the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. The Partnership's financial reporting year-end is November 30 while its tax year-end is December 31. The Partnership has elected to base the tax provision on the financial reporting year; therefore, since the 2017 financial reporting year is December 1, 2016 through November 30, 2017, the taxable income (loss) included in the 2017 tax provision is for the tax year ended December 31, 2016. The provision accrued at the financial reporting year-end will be a discrete period computation, and the tax credits and permanent differences recognized in that accrual will be those generated between the tax year-end date and the financial reporting year-end date. With the exception of minimum state income and franchise tax payments, any amounts recorded for income tax provision (benefit) represent deferred income taxes being provided on the net income before taxes of OpCo, a non-taxable partnership, which is allocated to the Partnership. Although organized as a limited partnership under state law, the Partnership elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Partnership is subject to U.S. federal income taxes at regular corporate rates on its net taxable income, and distributions it makes to holders of its Class A shares will be taxable as ordinary dividend income to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined on the basis of the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are provided against deferred tax assets when management cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that some portion or all deferred tax assets will be realized. The Partnership recognizes deferred tax assets to the extent that it believes these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, the Partnership considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. If the Partnership determines that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, it would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would reduce the provision for income taxes. 30 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The Partnership records uncertain tax positions on the basis of a two-step process whereby (1) it determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position and (2) for those tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the Partnership recognizes the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Note 14. Segment Information The Partnership manages its Portfolio as one segment that operates a portfolio of solar energy generation systems. It operates as a single reportable segment based on the "management" approach. Long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment, net, were located in the United States. All operating revenues for each of the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 were from customers located in the United States. The following customers each comprised 10% or more of our total revenue for each of the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , respectively: * Total revenue to these customers were less than 10% of our total revenue for the period. Note 15. Subsequent Events In connection with the Kern Purchase Agreement, OpCo and SunPower entered into the Kern Letter Agreement, pursuant to which the parties agreed to reduce the number of sites in the Phase 2(c) Assets, and to confirm the purchase price to be paid in connection with, the closing of the Kern Phase 2(c) Acquisition. On June 9, 2017, OpCo paid approximately $3.2 million with cash on hand in connection with the Kern Phase 2(c) Acquisition. In the event that the conditions precedent in the Kern Letter Agreement are met, at a future closing date on or prior to September 30, 2017, OpCo will purchase some or all of the Kern Remaining Assets, for a purchase price of up to $5.0 million , based upon the MW of the Kern Remaining Assets to be acquired in connection therein. The Kern Phase 2(c) Acquisition qualifies as a business combination and the Partnership accounts for the transaction under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets disclosed in the following table isbased on the preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests as of the acquisition date, and is subject to change as the Partnership obtains additional information for its estimates during the respective measurement period. Pro forma results of operations for the acquisition have not been presented as the impact of the acquisition is not material to the Partnership's consolidated results of operations for the current or prior periods. The results of operations of the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets will be included in the Partnership's consolidated results of operations beginning June 10, 2017. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations" for more details regarding the acquisition of the Kern Project. On June26, 2017 , our general partner's board of directors declared a cash distribution for our Class A shares of $0.2642 per share for the second quarter of 2017. Our general partner's board of directors declared a corresponding cash distribution for OpCo's common and subordinated units, which includes all common and subordinated units held by First Solar and SunPower. The second quarter distribution will be paid on July14, 2017 to shareholders and unitholders of record as of July6, 2017 . 31 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2016 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or forecasts of future events. Words such as "could," "will," "may," "assume," "forecast," "position," "predict," "strategy," "expect," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "project," "budget," "potential" or "continue" and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this report include statements concerning our Sponsors' ownership interest in us, our expectations of plans, strategies, objectives, growth and anticipated financial and operational performance. Forward-looking statements can be affected by assumptions used or by known or unknown risks or uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statements can be guaranteed. A forward-looking statement may include a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying the forward-looking statement. We believe that we have chosen these assumptions or bases in good faith and that they are reasonable. However, when considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this report and in the 2016 10-K. Those risk factors and other factors noted throughout this report and in the 2016 10-K could cause our actual results to differ materially from those disclosed in any forward-looking statement. You should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the risk factors included in this report and the 2016 10-K to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Please read "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in Part I, Item 1A. of the 2016 10-K. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements except as required by law. Overview Description of Partnership We are a growth-oriented limited partnership formed by First Solar and SunPower, our Sponsors, to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation projects. Our Portfolio As of May31, 2017 , our Portfolio consisted of interests in 945 MW of solar energy projects. As of May31, 2017 , we owned interests in ten utility-scale solar energy projects, all of which are operational. These assets represent 92% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. As of May31, 2017 , we owned interests in four C&I solar energy projects, three of which were operational and one of which was in late-stage construction, and a portfolio of residential DG Solar assets, which represent 8% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. Our Portfolio is located entirely in the United States and consists of utility-scale and C&I assets that sell substantially all of their output under long-term, fixed-price offtake agreements primarily with investment grade offtake counterparties and residential DG Solar assets that are leased under long-term fixed-price offtake agreements with high credit quality residential customers with FICO scores averaging 765 at the time of the initial contract. As of May31, 2017 , the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 19.6 years. For an overview of the assets that comprise our Portfolio as of May31, 2017 , please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 1- Description of Business." How We Generate Revenues Under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each Utility Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements have certain availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, then in some cases the applicable project is required to pay the offtake counterparty a specified damages amount, and in some cases the 32 offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement or reduce the contract quantity. In addition, under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 60 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any. Under the offtake agreements of our C&I Project Entities, each C&I Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Certain of our C&I Project Entities' offtake agreements have availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, the offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement. Under our C&I Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 30 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any. One of our C&I Project Entities has additionally entered into a SREC Agreement under which SRECs are sold to a non-affiliated party at a fixed price over the term of the agreement. Under our Residential Portfolio Project Entity's offtake agreements, homeowners are obligated to make lease payments to the Residential Portfolio Project Entity on a monthly basis. The customer's monthly payment is fixed based on a calculation that takes into account expected solar energy generation, and certain of our current offtake agreements contain price escalators with an average of a 1% increase annually. Customers are eligible to purchase the leased solar power systems to facilitate the sale or transfer of their home. The agreements also include an early buy-out option at fair market value exercisable in the seventh year that allows customers to purchase the solar power system. How We Evaluate Our Operations Our management uses a variety of financial metrics to analyze our performance. The key financial metrics we evaluate are Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution. Adjusted EBITDA . We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax provision, depreciation, amortization and accretion, including our proportionate share of net interest expense, income taxes and depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method, and share-based compensation and transaction costs incurred for our acquisitions of projects; and excluding the effect of certain other non-cash or non-recurring items that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance such as, but not limited to, mark to market adjustments to the fair value of derivatives related to our interest rate hedges. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. This measurement is not recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to U.S. GAAP measures of performance. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA is net income (loss). The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of financial performance and borrowers' ability to service debt. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is used by our management for internal planning purposes including certain aspects of our consolidated operating budget and capital expenditures. It is also used by investors to assess the ability of our assets to generate sufficient cash flows to make distributions to our Class A shareholders. However, Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital, does not reflect significant interest expense or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our outstanding debt or cash distributions on tax equity, does not reflect payments made or future requirements for income taxes, and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss) or any other performance measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of Adjusted EBITDA are not necessarily comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income (loss). Cash Available for Distribution. We use cash available for distribution, which we define as Adjusted EBITDA less equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, cash interest paid, cash income taxes paid, maintenance capital expenditures, cash distributions to noncontrolling 33 interests and principal amortization of indebtedness plus cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates, indemnity payments and working capital loans from Sponsors, test electricity generation, cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases, state and local rebates and cash proceeds for reimbursable network upgrade costs. Our cash flow is generated from distributions we receive from OpCo each quarter. OpCo's cash flow is generated primarily from distributions from the Project Entities. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our Class A shareholders depends primarily on the ability of the Project Entities to make cash distributions to OpCo and the ability of OpCo to make cash distributions to its unitholders. We believe cash available for distribution is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of our ability to make our distributions. In addition, cash available for distribution is used by our management team for determining future acquisitions and managing our growth. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available for distribution is net income (loss). However, cash available for distribution has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not capture the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the operating performance of our projects, does not include changes in operating assets and liabilities and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results from operations. Cash available for distribution is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss) or any other performance measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of cash available for distribution are not necessarily comparable to cash available for distribution as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income (loss) . The following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution for the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 : 34 (1) Represents acquisition-related financial advisory, legal and accounting fees associated with ROFO Project interests purchased and expected to be purchased by us in the future. (2) Represents the changes in fair value of interest rate swaps that were not designated as cash flow hedges. (3) Represents our proportionate share of net interest expense, depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method. (4) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates represents the earnings from the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project, the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the Henrietta Project, and the Stateline Project and is included on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. (5) Represents cash interest payments related to OpCo's senior secured credit facility and the Stateline Promissory Note. (6) Represents repayment of a working capital loan from First Solar. (7) Cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates represent the cash received by OpCo with respect to its 49% interest in the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project, the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the Henrietta Project, and its 34% interest in the Stateline Project. (8) Represents indemnity payments from the Sponsors owed to OpCo in accordance with the Omnibus Agreement. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties." (9) State and local rebates represent cash received from state or local governments for owning certain solar power systems. The receipt of state and local rebates is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue. (10) Cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases, net, represent gross rental cash receipts for sales-type leases, less sales-type revenue and lease interest income that is already reflected in net income (loss) during the period. The corresponding revenue for such leases was recognized in the period in which such lease was placed in service, rather than in the period in which the rental payment was received, due to the characterization of these leases underU.S.GAAP. (11) For three and six months ended May31, 2017 , test electricity generation represents the sale of electricity that was generated prior to COD by Macy's Maryland Project. For the three and six months ended May31, 2016 , test electricity generation represents the sale of electricity that was generated prior to COD by the Kingbird Project. Solar systems may begin generating electricity prior to COD as a result of the installation and interconnection of individual solar modules, which occurs over time during the construction and commission period. The sale of test electricity generation is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue prior to COD, even though it generates cash for the related Project Entity. (12) Cash proceeds from a utility company related toreimbursable network upgrade costs associated with the Quinto Project and the Kingbird Project. Significant Factors and Trends Affecting Our Business We expect the following factors will affect our results of operations: Power Purchase Agreements Our revenues are a function of the volume of electricity generated and sold by our projects and rental payments under lease agreements. The assets in our Portfolio sell substantially all of their output or are leased under long-term, fixed price offtake agreements primarily with investment grade utility-scale and C&I offtakers, as well as high credit quality residential customers with an average FICO score of 765 at the time of initial contract. As of May31, 2017 , the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 19.6 years, with the offtake agreements of our Utility Project Entities having remaining terms ranging from 15.8 to 26.6 years and our C&I offtake agreements and residential offtake agreements having remaining terms ranging from 15.3 to 19.6 years. We believe long-term agreements with creditworthy customers substantially mitigate volatility in our cash flows. As of May31, 2017 , two offtake counterparties were placed on CreditWatch by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, increasing our credit risk associated with these customers. Please read Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Project Agreements-We rely on a limited number of offtake counterparties and we are exposed to the risk that they are unwilling or unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or that they otherwise terminate their offtake agreements with us" and Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties-Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement." Operation of Projects 35 Our revenues are a function of the volume of electricity generated by our projects during a particular period, which is impacted by the number of systems that have achieved commercial operations, as well as both scheduled and unexpected repair and maintenance required to keep our systems operational. Equipment performance represents the primary factor affecting our operating results because equipment downtime impacts the volume of the electricity that we are able to generate from our systems. Future Acquisitions Our ability to grow our business and increase our quarterly cash distributions could be impacted by a number of factors and trends that affect our industry generally, including the development of any ROFO Projects we may acquire in the future. Our ability to acquire ROFO Projects is dependent on our ability to agree on terms with our Sponsors, our ability to borrow additional funds and access capital markets, our Sponsors' ability to complete the development of the ROFO Projects and our Sponsors' decision to sell the ROFO Projects they develop. Please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Acquisition Strategy and Future Growth-Our Sponsors' failure to complete the development of the First Solar ROFO Projects and the SunPower ROFO Projects or project developers', including our Sponsors', failure to develop other solar energy projects, including those opportunities that are part of our Sponsors' development pipeline, could have a significant effect on our ability to grow" in the 2016 10-K. Demand for Solar Energy United States energy demand is increasing due to economic development and population growth. The U.S. Energy Information Administration's August 2016 Annual Energy Outlook projects fossil fuels' share of total energy in the United States to decline from 82% in 2015 to 77% in 2040, while renewable energy use is projected to grow from 9% in 2015 to 15% in 2040 in response to the Clean Power Plan, availability of federal tax credits for renewable electricity generation and capacity during the early years of the projection, and state renewable portfolio standard programs. With exposure to volatile fossil fuel costs, increasing concern about carbon emissions and a variety of other factors, customers are seeking alternatives to traditional sources of electricity generation. As a form of electricity generation that is not dependent on fossil fuels, does not produce greenhouse gas emissions and whose costs are falling, solar energy is well-positioned to continue to capture an increasing share of this new build capacity. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from this increased demand for solar energy. However, the demand for solar energy could change at any time, especially as a result of a decline in commodity prices, including the price of natural gas, or a change in the federal, state, or local policies regulating natural gas, coal, oil and other fossil fuels, which could lower prices for fuel sources used to produce energy from other technologies and reduce the demand for solar energy. For more information about the risks associated with changing demand for solar energy, please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-If solar energy technology is not suitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return, or if sufficient additional demand for solar power systems does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our ability to acquire accretive projects may decrease" in the 2016 10-K. Government Incentives Our Portfolio benefits from certain federal, state and local incentives designed to promote the development and use of solar energy. These incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ITCs, RPS programs and net metering policies. These incentives make the development of solar energy projects more competitive by providing tax credits and accelerated depreciation for a portion of the development and construction costs, decreasing the costs associated with developing and building such projects. In addition, these incentives create demand for renewable energy assets through RPS programs and the reduction or removal of these incentives may diminish the market for future solar energy offtake agreements and reduce the ability for solar developers to compete for future solar energy offtake agreements. A loss or reduction in such incentives could decrease the attractiveness of solar energy projects to developers, including our Sponsors, which could reduce our acquisition opportunities. For example, the ITC, a federal income tax credit for 30% of eligible basis, is scheduled to fall to 26% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2020, 22% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2021, and 10% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2022 or thereafter or are placed into service on or after January 1, 2024. The current administration's proposed environmental and tax policies may create regulatory uncertainty in the clean energy sector, including the solar energy sector, and may lead to a reduction or removal of various clean energy programs and initiatives designed to curtail climate change.For more information about the risks associated with these government incentives, please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Government regulations providing incentives and subsidies for solar energy could change at any time, including pursuant to the proposed environmental and tax policies of the current administration, and such changes may negatively impact our growth strategy" in the 2016 10-K. 36 The projects in our Portfolio are generally unaffected by the trends discussed above, given that all of the electricity to be generated by our projects are sold under fixed-price offtake agreements, which, as of May31, 2017 , have a weighted average remaining life of approximately 19.6 years. In addition, our near-term growth strategy is also largely insulated from the trends discussed above. We expect that most of our short-term growth will come from opportunities to acquire the ROFO Projects, all of which will have executed power sale agreements at the time of any acquisition by us. Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates We prepare our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses recorded in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. In addition to our most critical estimates discussed below, we also have other key accounting policies that are less subjective and, therefore, judgments involved in their application would not have a material impact on our reported results of operations. Please read Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 2-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the 2016 10-K. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since November 30, 2016. Results of Operations Three and Six Months Ended May31, 2017 Compared to Three and Six Months Ended May31, 2016 37 Revenues Over 90% of our operating revenues for both the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , were comprised of lease revenue from our utility-scale assets, C&I assets and Residential Portfolio. The Partnership's only revenue streams not from the leasing of solar power systems are from the sale and delivery of SRECs to an unaffiliated party. All revenues for the periods presented were generated in the United States. Residential systems are leased under lease agreements which are classified for accounting purposes either as sales-type leases or operating leases. As all the leases owned by the Predecessor were placed into service prior to fiscal 2015, all revenue related to the NPV of the minimum lease payments for sales-type leases has been recognized as of December 28, 2014. Accordingly, other than interest revenue, we had no sales-type lease revenue on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 . For those residential leases classified as sales-type leases, the NPV of the minimum lease payments, net of executory costs, is recognized as revenue when the leased asset is placed in service. Executory costs represent estimated lease operation and maintenance costs, including insurance, to be paid by the lessor, including any profit thereon. This NPV is inclusive of certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments. The difference between the net amount and the gross amount of a sales-type lease is amortized as revenue over the lease term using the interest method. Revenue from executory costs is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. For those residential leases classified as operating leases, revenue associated with renting the solar power system and related executory costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. We do not record certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates. Previously, certain of these fixed and determinable state or local rebates defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments, were recorded as deferred revenue in the Predecessor's balance sheets when the lease was placed in service and amortized to revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Total revenues increased by $3.2 million , or 23% , for the three months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended May31, 2016 , and increased by $6.0 million , or 29% , for the six months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the six months ended May31, 2016 , due to (i) lease revenue generated from the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, which were acquired and commenced operations subsequent to the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and (ii) revenue recognized under the SREC Sales Agreement. Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of Operations : Cost of operations primarily includes expenses related to O&M agreements and land lease expenses. The increase of $0.4 million , or 20% , for the three months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended May31, 2016 , and the increase of $1.3 million , or 43% , for the six months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the six months ended May31, 2016 , was primarily driven by (i) increased expenses associated with operating the solar power systems due to 38 the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, which were acquired subsequent to the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and (ii) costs associated with the sale and delivery of SRECs. Selling, General and Administrative : SG&A expense primarily includes operating expenses such as audit, legal, insurance, independent board of directors services and fees under the AMAs and MSAs with our Sponsors. The increase of $0.3 million , or 17% , for the three months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended May31, 2016 , and the increase of $0.6 million , or 17% , for the six months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the six months ended May31, 2016 , was primarily driven by additional expenses associated with operating the solar power systems due to the acquisitions of the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets subsequent to the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Depreciation and Accretion: Depreciation expense reflects costs associated with depreciation of our solar power system assets that have been placed in service. The increase of $1.5 million , or 28% for the three months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended May31, 2016 , and the increase of $3.6 million , or 36% , for the six months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the six months ended May31, 2016 , was primarily driven by the commencement of operations, and related depreciation, of the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Asset, and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets subsequent to the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Acquisition-related Transaction Costs: Acquisition-related transactions costs represent legal and consulting fees incurred in connection with the acquisitions. The decrease of $0.8 million , or 98% , for the three months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended May31, 2016 , and the decrease of $1.6 million , or 98% , for the six months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the six months ended May31, 2016 , was primarily driven by the fees incurred in connection with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition in January 2016, the Kingbird Acquisition in March 2016 and the Hooper Acquisition in April 2016. Transaction costs associated with acquiring the Kern Project Entity were primarily incurred by the Partnership in connection with the initial phase of the acquisition which occurred in the first half of fiscal 2016. Other Expense, net Interest Expense: Cash interest expense for the three and six months ended May31, 2017 relates to fees associated with outstanding borrowings under OpCo's senior secured credit facility and the Stateline Promissory Note. Cash interest expense for the three and six months ended May31, 2016 relates to fees associated with outstanding borrowings under OpCo's senior secured credit. Non-cash interest expense for the three and six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 relates to debt issuance costs associated with OpCo's senior secured credit facility. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 7- Debt and Financing Obligations" for rates and borrowing activity. The interest incurred related to our projects that are under construction is not reflected as an expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations, as it is capitalized to construction-in-progress until the solar power system is ready for its intended use. Interest expense for the three and six months ended May31, 2017 included non-cash interest expense of $0.3 million and $0.5 million , respectively, and cash interest expense of $5.6 million and $10.9 million , respectively. Interest expense for the three and six months ended May31, 2016 included non-cash interest expense of less than $0.1 million and $0.1 million , respectively, and cash interest expense of $3.0 million and $5.8 million , respectively. Non-cash interest expense increased $0.2 million for the three months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended May31, 2016 , and increased $0.4 million for the six months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the six months ended May31, 2016 , primarily due to the debt issuance costs associated with the additional drawdowns of our $250.0 million incremental term loan facility and $57.0 million of our revolving credit facility. Cash interest expense increased $2.6 million , or 86% , for the three months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended May31, 2016 , and increased $5.1 39 million , or 87% , for the six months ended May31, 2017 as compared to the six months ended May31, 2016 , primarily due the Stateline Promissory Note issued on December 1, 2016, as well as fees associated with additional drawdowns under the $250.0 million incremental term loan facility and $57.0 million revolving credit facility. Interest Income: Interest income represents the accrued interest on reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project and the Kingbird Project. These costs plus accrued interest are reimbursable by the applicable utility company over five years when the project achieves commercial operation. Interest income was $0.3 million for both the three months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 , and $0.6 million for both the six months ended May31, 2017 and May31, 2016 . Other Expense (Income): Other expense for the three months ended May31, 2017 of less than $0.1 million relates to the unrealized loss related to the mark-to-market valuation adjustment of interest rate swaps associated with our term loan facility.Other income for the six months ended May31, 2017 of $0.8 million relates to (i) a $0.6 million unrealized gain related to the mark-to-market valuation adjustment of interest rate swaps associated with our term loan facility, and (ii) $0.1 million of payments received under the Partnership's O&M agreement with First Solar associated with performance of certain projects. Other income in both the three and six months ended May31, 2016 relates to $0.3 million unrealized gain related to the mark-to-market valuation adjustment of interest rate swaps associated with our term loan facility. We enter into interest rate swap agreements to economically hedge the cash flows on our term loan facility. The changes in fair value are recorded in other expense (income), net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations as these hedges are not accounted for under hedge accounting. Income Tax Provision Our tax rate is primarily affected by the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. We included the income tax provision related to our equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees in the income tax provision line of the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Our income tax provision primarily represents deferred federal and state taxes on the net income of OpCo, a non-taxable partnership, that is allocated to the Partnership (exclusive of income tax but after noncontrolling interest). The decrease in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the three months ended May31, 2017 of 13.9% compared to 49.4% for the three months ended May31, 2016 is the result of (i) an increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and (ii) lower income before income taxes for the three months ended May31, 2017 of $0.1 million compared to income before income taxes of $1.5 million for the three months ended May31, 2016 . The decrease in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the six months ended May31, 2017 of 10.7% compared to 49.6% for the six months ended May31, 2016 is the result of (i) an increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and (ii) higher losses before income taxes for the six months ended May31, 2017 of $5.3 million compared to losses before income taxes of $2.4 million for the six months ended May31, 2016 . Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Investees Equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees represents our proportionate share of the earnings and losses from our minority membership interests accounted for as equity method investments, including SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost 40 Hills Blackwell Holdings, Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings. We own a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings and Henrietta Holdings, and a 34% ownership interest in Stateline Holdings. Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings were acquired subsequent to the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Net Income (loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests We apply the HLBV Method in allocating recorded net income (loss) to each tax equity investor based on the change during the reporting period of the amount of net assets of the entity to which each tax equity investor would be entitled to under the governing contractual arrangements in a liquidation scenario. If the redemption value of our redeemable noncontrolling interests exceeds their carrying value after attribution of income (loss) under the HLBV Method in any period, we will make an additional attribution of income to our redeemable noncontrolling interests such that their carrying value will at least equal the redemption value. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for the three and six months ended May31, 2017 included a net loss of $6.7 million and $15.5 million , respectively, attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, partially offset by net income of $10.5 million and $13.1 million , respectively, attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for the three and six months ended May31, 2016 included a net loss of $52.9 million and $87.8 million, respectively, attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, partially offset by net income of $42.7 million and $65.3 million, respectively, attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. Cash Flows Six Months Ended May31, 2017 Compared to Six Months Ended May31, 2016 A summary of the sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended May31, 2017 was $25.0 million and was primarily the result of: (i) a net income of $1.8 million (ii) $10.0 million in cash distributions received from equity method investees that were classified in operating activities as returns on the investments; (iii) adjustment for non-cash charges of $17.3 million , including $13.9 million depreciation of operating lease assets and solar power systems and amortization of intangible assets, a $2.8 million charge for deferred income taxes, a $0.5 million charge for amortization of debt issuance costs, and a $0.1 million of share-based compensation; (iv) a $7.1 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets; and (v) a $1.1 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. This was partially offset by: (i) $1.6 million increase in accounts receivable and financing receivable, net; (ii) a $0.1 million decrease in deferred revenue on operating leases; and (iii) adjustments for non-cash income of $10.6 million , including $10.0 million equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees and $0.6 million mark-to-market gain on interest rate swaps. 41 Net cash provided by operating activitiesfor the six months ended May 31, 2016 was $13.6 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $7.7million in cash distributions received from equity method investees that were classified in operating activitiesas returns on the investments; (ii) adjustments for non-cash charges of $20.8million, including $10.0 million depreciation of operating lease assets and solar energy systems, $10.2million deferred income taxes expense, $0.1 million share-based compensation, $0.3 million amortization of debt issuance costs, and $0.2 million bad debt expense related to residential lease customers; and (iii) $1.0 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. These inflows were partially offset by: (i) net loss of $7.2million; (ii) adjustments for non-cash income of $5.7 million, including $5.4 million equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees and $0.3 million mark-to-marketgain on interest rate swap; (iii) $2.4 million increase in accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net; (iv) $0.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets; and (iv) $0.1 million decrease in deferred revenue on operating leases. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended May31, 2017 was $285.2 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $304.5 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of the Stateline Project, the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets, and the Macy's Maryland Project; (ii) capital expenditures of $0.1 million , which were due to the purchases of property and equipment. These outflows were offset by $19.3 million in distributions from unconsolidated investees classified in investing activities as returns of the investments. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended May 31, 2016 was $115.6 million and was primarily the result of $118.0 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project and the Hooper Project. These outflows were partially offset by $1.2 million of cash distributions from unconsolidated investees classified in investing activities as returns of the investments, and $1.1 million of net cash provided by purchases of property and equipment, which primarily consists of collections of test energy billings. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended May31, 2017 was $256.6 million due to: (i) a $250.0 million draw down under the incremental term loan facility in connection with the Stateline Acquisition; (ii) a $34.0 million draw down under the revolving credit facility; and (iii) $18.8 million of cash contributions from tax equity investors. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $25.8 million of cash distributions to our Sponsors as OpCo's common and subordinated unitholders; (ii) $14.2 million of cash distributions to our Class A shareholders; (iii) $4.2 million of cash distributions to tax equity investors; and (iv) the repayment of the $2.0 million Short-term Note to First Solar. Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended May 31, 2016 was $65.2 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $65.0 million proceeds from issuance of bank loans, net of issuance costs, including $40.0 million from the revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from the delayed draw term loan facility; (ii) $10.0 million in capital contributions from SunPower as an indemnity per the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement for a short-fall associated with reimbursable costs for the Quinto Project network upgrade; and (iii) $0.4 million of cash contributions from tax equity investors. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $8.8 million of cash distributions to our Class A shareholders; and (ii) $1.3 million of cash distributions to tax equity investors. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity as of May31, 2017 was $58.7 million , consisting of $10.6 million cash on hand and $48.1 million of available capacity under our five-year revolving credit facility. Sources of Liquidity We expect our ongoing sources of liquidity to include cash on hand, cash generated from operations (excluding cash distributions to minority investors), distributions and dividends from the operations of our equity investments, borrowings under new and existing financing arrangements (the aggregate amount of which may be lower because of our reduced ownership in projects subject to tax equity financing) and the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. We may also incur debt at the project level, which may be limited by the rights of our tax equity investors and current debt covenants. We expect that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide for our short-term and long-term liquidity needs. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and other capital requirements, including capital expenditures, as well as make acquisitions, will depend on our future operating performance which, in turn, will be subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. 42 We believe that we will have sufficient borrowings available under our revolving credit facility, liquid assets and cash flows from operations to meet our financial commitments, debt service obligations, contingencies and anticipated required capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, we have an active shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. Term Loans, Delayed Draw Term Loan, Revolving Credit Facility and Stateline Promissory Note On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended the credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Omnibus Agreement, (ii) to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit facility, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million . Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. There will be no principal amortization over the term of the credit facility. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. In general, the credit facility contains representations, warranties, covenants (including financial covenants) and defaults that are customary for this type of financing; provided, however, that OpCo is permitted to pay distributions to its unitholders and we are permitted to pay distributions to our shareholders out of available cash so long as no default or event of default under the credit facility has occurred or is continuing at the time of such distribution, or would result therefrom, and OpCo is otherwise in compliance, on a pro forma basis, with the facility's covenants requiring it to maintain its debt to cash flow ratio and debt service coverage ratio (as such financial ratios are described below). Among other things, events of defaults that could result in restrictions on our ability to make such distributions include certain failures to make payments when due under the credit facility, certain defaults under other agreements, breaches of certain covenants and representations under the credit facility, commencement of certain insolvency proceedings, the existence of certain judgments or attachments, certain orders of dissolution of loan parties, certain events relating to employee benefit plans, the occurrence of a change of control (as more fully described below), certain events relating to the effectiveness and validity of the guaranties and collateral documents in support of the credit facility (as described below) and other credit documents and, under certain circumstances, the termination of the Omnibus Agreement or the Quinto PPA. In the future, we may increase our debt to fund our operations or future acquisitions. OpCo's credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain the following financial ratios: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not more than (a) 6.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending November 30, 2016 through November 30, 2017, and (b) 5.50 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of us or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. On April 5, 2017, First Solar notified our general partner's board of directors of its intention to explore alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership.Following such announcement, SunPower also notified our general partner's board of directors that it is exploring alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership, including but not limited to seeking a potential new partner in the Partnership.Although our Sponsors have publicly announced their current intentions, there is no assurance that either or both of our Sponsors will pursue or effect any particular alternative. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. The Joinder Agreement amended OpCo's credit facility to permit OpCo to incur up to $50.0 million in subordinated indebtedness from First Solar or its affiliate to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Stateline Project. As of May31, 2017 , the Partnership was in compliance with its debt covenants. 43 OpCo's credit facility is collateralized by a pledge over the equity of OpCo and certain of its subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. On December 1, 2016, in connection with the Stateline Acquisition, OpCo issued the Stateline Promissory Note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million . The Stateline Promissory Note is unsecured and matures on the date that is six months after the maturity date under OpCo's credit facility. Interest will accrue at a rate of four percent 4.00% per annum, except it will accrue at a rate of six percent 6.00% per annum (i) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a specified event of default and (ii) in respect of amounts accrued as payments-in-kind pursuant to the terms of the note. As of May31, 2017 , OpCo had outstanding borrowings of the $300.0 million under the term loan facility, $250.0 million under the incremental term loan facility, $25.0 million under the delayed draw term loan facility, $97.0 million under the revolving credit facility, approximately $54.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and $50.0 million Stateline Promissory Note. The remaining portion of the revolving credit facility is undrawn as of May31, 2017 . ATM Program On January 30, 2017, the Partnership established the ATM Program under which the Partnership may sell its Class A shares from time to time through the ATM Agents up to an aggregate sales price of $125.0 million.The Partnership may also sell its Class A shares to any ATM Agent, as principal for its own account, at a price agreed upon at the time of the sale.The Partnership will use the net proceeds from sales under the ATM Program to purchase a number of common units in OpCo equal to the number of Class A shares issued under the ATM Program. OpCo may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, repaying borrowings under the Stateline Promissory Note and OpCo's credit facilities, and funding working capital or acquisitions. No shares were issued under the ATM Program during the six months ended May 31, 2017. Tax Equity Our projects are, and our future acquisitions are expected to be, subject to two types of tax equity financing. In the first type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. To the extent we want to incur project-level debt at a project in which we co-invest with a tax equity investor, we may be required to obtain the tax equity investor's consent prior to such incurrence. In addition, the amount of debt that could be incurred by an entity in which we have a tax equity co-investor may be further constrained because even if the tax equity investor consents to the incurrence of the debt at the entity or project level, the tax equity investor may not agree to pledge its interest in the project which could reduce the amount that can be borrowed and raise the cost of borrowing by the entity. In the second type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a majority interest in the project. In such agreements, we will only have a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. In most cases, since we are not the majority owner, we will not be able to direct the actions of the entity that owns such asset. As such, we may not be able to incur debt at the entity or project level, without the consent of the majority owner. Uses of Liquidity Our principal requirements for liquidity and capital resources, other than for operating our business, can generally be categorized into the following: (i) debt service obligations; (ii) funding acquisitions, if any; and (iii) cash distributions to shareholders. Generally, once COD is reached, solar power generation assets do not require significant capital expenditures to maintain operating performance. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of May31, 2017 : 44 (1) Land use commitments primarily relate to a non-cancellable operating lease for the Quinto Project and two operating leases for the Kingbird Project, and are equal to the minimum lease and easement payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which solar power systems are located. (2) Includes $300.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015 (in connection with our IPO) which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the term loan facility will become due. From August 31, 2016 to August 31, 2018, which is the term of the interest rate swap, the interest payments are estimated based on the fixed swap interest rate of 0.85% plus the 2% margin for the notional amount of $250.0 million. From January 7, 2017 to August 31, 2018, which is the term of the interest rate swap, the interest payments are estimated based on the fixed swap interest rate of 1.16% plus the 2% margin for the notional amount of $40.0 million. The interest payments for the remaining $10.0 million notional amount through the maturity date, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 3.04% per annum effective as of May31, 2017 . (3) Includes $250.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the incremental term loan facility entered into by OpCo on September 30, 2016 (in connection with the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit facility) which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the incremental term loan facility will become due. The interest payments for the $250.0 million notional amount through the maturity date, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 3.04% per annum effective as of May31, 2017 . (4) Includes $25.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and $97.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015, which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and the revolving credit facility will become due. The interest payments for the $122.0 million notional amount through the maturity date, and the full amount outstanding thereafter, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 3.04% per annum effective as of May31, 2017 . (5) Includes $50.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Stateline Promissory Note by OpCo to First Solar on December 1, 2016 which will mature on December 5, 2020. Interest payments are estimated based on a rate of 4.00% per annum. Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements As of May31, 2017 , we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements.Item 1. Financial Statements. 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party balances for transactions made with the Sponsors and tax equity investors. Related-party balances recorded within "Prepaid and other current assets" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $0.8 million and $0.9 million as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. Related-party balances recorded within "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $3.5 million and $19.7 million due to Sponsors as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively, and $0.9 million and $1.0 million due to tax equity investors as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. Related-party balances recorded within "Short-term debt and financing obligations" and "Long-term debt and financing obligations" in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets were $2.2 million and $47.8 million , respectively, as of August31, 2017 , and $2.0 million and zero , respectively, as of November30, 2016 . The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 8 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (In thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited) 1 The Partnership has related-party activities for transactions made with the Sponsors. Related party transactions recorded within "Operating revenues" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $1.3 million for each of the three months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , and $3.9 million for each of the nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 . Related party transactions recorded within "Operating costs and expenses" in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations were $2.1 million and $1.9 million for the three months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively, and $6.3 million and $5.0 million for the nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 9 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Equity (In thousands, except share data) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 10 8point3 Energy Partners LP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (In thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 11 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1. Description of Business The Partnership 8point3 Energy Partners LP (together with its subsidiaries, the "Partnership") is a limited partnership formed on March 3, 2015 under a master formation agreement by SunPower Corporation ("SunPower") and First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar" and, together with SunPower, the "Sponsors") to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation systems. As of August31, 2017 , 8point3 Energy Partners LP owned a controlling non-economic managing member interest in 8point3 Operating Company, LLC ("OpCo") and a 35.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo, and the Sponsors collectively owned a noncontrolling 64.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo. The following table provides an overview of the assets that comprise the Portfolio as of August31, 2017 : 12 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued (1) For the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project, and the Kern Project, COD represents the first date on which all of the solar generation systems within each of the Macy's California Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Kern Project, respectively, have achieved or are expected to achieve COD. For the Residential Portfolio, COD represents the first date on which all of the residential systems within the Residential Portfolio have achieved COD. (2) The MW for the projects in which the Partnership owns less than a 100% interest or in which the Partnership is the lessor under any sale-leaseback financing are shown on a gross basis. (3) Remaining term of offtake agreement is measured from the later of August31, 2017 or the expected COD of the applicable project. (4) Remaining term comprised of 1.3 years on a PPA with the City of Roseville, California, followed by a 25 -year PPA with PG&E starting in 2019. (5) The Kingbird Project is subject to two separate PPAs with member cities of the Southern California Public Power Authority. (6) OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project is being effectuated in phases, with the closing of the first phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 3 MW, having occurred on January 26, 2016, the closing of the second phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 5 MW, having occurred on September 9, 2016, the closing of the third phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 5 MW, having occurred on November 30, 2016, the closing of the fourth phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 3 MW, having closed on February 24, 2017, and the closing of the fifth phase, reflecting a nameplate capacity of approximately 2 MW, having closed on June 9, 2017. (7) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of the five phases of the Kern Project. (8) Comprised of the approximately 5,800 solar installations located at homes in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Vermont, that are held by the Residential Portfolio Project Entity and have an aggregate nameplate capacity of 38 MW. (9) Remaining term is the weighted average duration of all of the residential leases, in each case measured from August31, 2017 . Basis of Presentation and Preparation The direct and indirect contributions of the IPO Project Entities by the Sponsors to OpCo in connection with the IPO resulted in a business combination for accounting purposes with the IPO SunPower Project Entities being considered the acquirer of the interests contributed by First Solar in the IPO First Solar Project Entities. Therefore, the IPO SunPower Project Entities constitute the "Predecessor." As used herein, the term "IPO Project Entities" refers to: the IPO SunPower Project Entities, including: the Macy's California Project Entities, which hold the Macy's California Project; the Quinto Project Entity, which holds the Quinto Project; the RPU Project Entity, which holds the RPU Project; the UC Davis Project Entity, which holds the UC Davis Project; and the Residential Portfolio Project Entity, which holds the Residential Portfolio Project; and the IPO First Solar Project Entities, including: the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, which holds the Lost Hills Project and the Blackwell Project; the Maryland Solar Project Entity, which holds the Maryland Solar Project; the North Star Project Entity, which holds the North Star Project; and the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity, which holds the Solar Gen 2 Project. In connection with the IPO, SunPower contributed a nearly 100% interest in each of the IPO SunPower Project Entities to OpCo, subject, in the case of the Quinto Project, the RPU Project, the UC Davis Project and the Macy's California Project, to the tax equity investor's right to a varying portion of the cash flows from the projects. In connection with the IPO, First Solar directly contributed to OpCo a 100% interest in the Maryland Solar Project Entity and indirectly contributed to OpCo a 49% economic interest in each of the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the North Star Project and the Solar Gen 2 Project. Since November 30, 2015, the partnership completed six acquisitions from its Sponsors, four from SunPower and two from First Solar. 13 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Four of the acquisitions are treated as business combinations: the Kern Project Entity, which holds the Kern Project; the Kingbird Project Entities, which holds the Kingbird Project; the Hooper Project Entity, which holds the Hooper Project; and the Macy's Maryland Project Entity, which holds the Macy's Maryland Project. Two of the acquisitions are accounted for as equity method investments: the Henrietta Project Entity, which holds the Henrietta Project. OpCo owns a 49% economic interest in the Henrietta Project Entity; and the Stateline Project Entity, which holds the Stateline Project. OpCo owns a 34% economic interest in the Stateline Project Entity. Principles of Consolidation The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and include the accounts of the Partnership, and all of its subsidiaries, as appropriate under consolidation accounting guidelines. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from the audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates in which the Partnership has less than a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Inter-entity accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments (consisting of normal, recurring items) necessary to state fairly its financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the accounting policies previously disclosed in Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 1-Description of Business" and "-Note 2-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the 2016 10-K. Interim results are not necessarily indicative of results for a full year. Management Estimates The preparation of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant estimates in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the assumptions and methodology underlying allowances for doubtful accounts related to accounts receivable and financing receivables; estimates of future cash flows and economic useful lives of property and equipment; the fair value and residual value of leased solar power systems; fair value of financial instruments; fair value of acquired assets and liabilities; valuation of certain accrued liabilities such as accrued system output performance warranty and AROs; and income taxes including the related valuation allowance. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued an update to the standards to require management to evaluate whether there are conditions and events that raise substantial doubt about the Partnership's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued, and to provide related disclosures. The Partnership adopted the new guidance beginning on December 1, 2016 and the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures is not material. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In January 2017, the FASB issued an update to clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is applied prospectively. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In October 2016, the FASB issued an update which amends the guidance on related parties that are under common control. Specifically, this update requires that a single decision maker consider indirect interests held by related parties under common control on a proportionate basis in a manner consistent with its evaluation of indirect interests held through other related parties. That is, the single decision maker does not consider indirect interests held through related parties as equivalent to direct interests in determining whether it meets the economics criterion to be a primary beneficiary. This new guidance 14 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In October 2016, the FASB issued an update which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory, such as property and equipment, when such transfer occurs. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and shall be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. Early adoption is permitted. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In August 2016, the FASB issued an update to the statement of cash flows guidance, which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice. One identified cash flow issue relates to distributions received from equity method investees whereby the reporting entity should make an accounting policy election to classify distributions received from equity method investees using either the cumulative earnings approach or the nature of the distribution approach. This new guidance becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and is applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Partnership is evaluating the change in accounting policy from the cumulative earnings approach to the nature of the distribution approach and the impact on its consolidated statements of cash flows and disclosures. In March 2016, the FASB issued an update to the equity method investments guidance, which eliminates the requirement that an entity retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting if an investment qualifies for use of the equity method as a result of an increase in the level of ownership or degree of influence. The update requires that the equity method investor add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership beginning on December 1, 2017 on a prospective basis. Early adoption is permitted. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In February 2016, the FASB issued an update to the lease accounting guidance, which requires entities to begin recording assets and liabilities arising from substantially all leases on the balance sheet. The new guidance will also require significant additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases. This new guidance will be effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 using a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. The Partnership is evaluating the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. In May 2014, the FASB issued a new revenue recognition standard based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The FASB has issued several updates to the standard which (i) clarify the application of the principal versus agent guidance; (ii) clarify the guidance relating to performance obligations and licensing; and (iii) clarify assessment of the collectability criterion, presentation of sales taxes, measurement date for non-cash consideration and completed contracts at transaction. The new revenue recognition standard, amended by the updates, becomes effective for the Partnership in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and is to be applied retrospectively using one of two prescribed methods. Early adoption is permitted. While the Partnership is continuing to assess all potential impacts of the standard, it currently believes the impact on its consolidated financial statements is not material because over 90% of the Partnership's total revenue for all periods is comprised of lease revenue, which is substantially unchanged under the new standard. Other than as described above, there has been no issued accounting guidance not yet adopted by the Partnership that it believes is material or potentially material to its consolidated financial statements. 15 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 2. Business Combinations Acquisition accounting is dependent upon certain valuations and other studies that must be completed as of the acquisition date. The judgments made in the context of the purchase price allocation can materially impact the Partnership's future results of operations. The Partnership's purchase price allocations for acquisitions completed through November30, 2016 are final and not subject to revision. For the acquisition completed during the nine months ended August31, 2017 , the valuation is based on the preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests as of the acquisition date, and is subject to change as the Partnership obtains additional information for its estimates during the respective measurement period. Kern Acquisition: On January 26, 2016, OpCo and SunPower entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement, which was amended on September 28, 2016, November 30, 2016, February 24, 2017, and June 9, 2017, pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project. OpCo's acquisition of the Kern Project is being effectuated in phases summarized below: (i) Phase 1(a): On January 26, 2016, 8point3 OpCo Holdings, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of OpCo ("OpCo Holdings"), acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership.Prior to the date of the execution of the Kern Purchase Agreement and in connection with the closing of the tax equity financing for the Kern Project, described below, the Kern Project Entity, an indirect subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership, acquired the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. The initial phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition." (ii) Phase 1(b): On September 9, 2016, the Kern Project Entity acquired the assets included in the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets from SunPower. The second phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition." (iii) Phase 2(a): On November 30, 2016, the Kern Project Entity acquired the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets from SunPower. The third phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition." (iv) Phase 2(b): On February 24, 2017, the Kern Project Entity acquired the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets from SunPower. The fourth phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition." (v) Phase 2(c): On June 9, 2017, the Kern Project Entity acquired the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets from SunPower. The fifth phase of the acquisition of the Kern Project is referred to herein as the "Kern Phase 2(c) Acquisition." The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition is up to $36.7 million in cash, of which OpCo paid approximately $4.9 million on January27, 2016 in connection with the closing of the first phase, approximately $9.2 million on September9, 2016 in connection with the closing of the second phase, approximately $8.4 million on November 30, 2016 in connection with the closing of the third phase, approximately $6.0 million on February 24, 2017 in connection with the closing of the fourth phase, and approximately $3.2 million on June 9, 2017 in connection with the closing of the fifth phase. Please read "-Note 15-Subsequent Events" for further details. In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a distribution waterfall. Pursuant to this distribution waterfall, the tax equity investor is entitled to a monthly amount of project cash flow until a specified "flip" point is achieved.After the "flip" point, the cash allocations to OpCo increase.In addition, upon reaching the flip point, OpCo has a right to purchase the tax equity investor's interests in the project for an amount that is not less than its fair market value. The tax equity investor made capital contributions to fund purchase price payments of approximately $29.2 million , of which $0.9 million , $1.8 million , $1.3 million , $6.7 million , $8.2 million , $6.3 million , and $4.0 million was paid on January 22, 2016, September 9, 2016, November 30, 2016, December 14, 2016, February 24, 2017, June 9, 2017, and September 28, 2017, respectively. For more information about the Partnership's tax equity structures in general, please read Part I, Item 1. "Business-Tax Equity Financing" of its 2016 10-K. The Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 2(b) Acquisition, and the Kern Phase 2(c) Acquisition qualify as business combinations and the Partnership accounts for the transactions under the acquisition method. The purchase allocation of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets, and the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets are disclosed in the following table. 16 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Valuation methodology: The Partnership utilized the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to value property and equipment for the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets, and the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets. Key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow method included forecasted pre-tax cash flows, forecasted taxable income and discount rates. All estimates, key assumptions and forecasts were reviewed by the Partnership and the fair value analyses and related valuations represent the conclusions of management. Supplementary Data: The results of operations for each phase of the Kern Project acquisition have been included in the Partnership's consolidated statements of operations since their respective dates of acquisition. The Kern Phase 2(b) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets contributed approximately $0.3 million and $0.5 million to the Partnership's operating revenue in the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 , respectively, and increased operating income by $0.1 million and $0.2 million in the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 , respectively. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented as the impact of the acquisitions on February 24, 2017 and June 9, 2017 are not material to the Partnership's results of operations for the current or prior periods. Additionally, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets and the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets became operational after the acquisition date and therefore, would not have had any pro forma results in the prior period. Note 3. Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates On November 11, 2016, OpCo entered into the Stateline Purchase Agreement with First Solar to acquire a 34% interest in the Stateline Project for $329.5 million (the "Stateline Acquisition"). The Stateline Acquisition closed on December 1, 2016 and the Partnership recorded an investment of $329.9 million after consideration of acquisition-related costs. As of August31, 2017 , the Partnership owns a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings and Henrietta Holdings, and a 34% ownership interest in Stateline Holdings. The minority membership interests are accounted for as equity method investments, as the Partnership is able to exercise significant influence through its governing board, while the non-affiliated majority owner otherwise controls. The following table summarizes the activity of the Partnership's investments in its unconsolidated affiliates during each of the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively: (1) The net income (loss) used to determine the Partnership's equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates reflects adjustments pursuant to the equity method of accounting, including the amortization of basis differences resulting from the Partnership's proportionate share of certain equity method investees' net assets exceeding their carrying values. The difference between the amounts at which the Partnership's investments in unconsolidated affiliates are carried and the Partnership's proportionate share of the equity method investee's net assets for equity method investments was $137.4 17 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued million and $83.2 million as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. The Partnership accretes the basis difference over the life of the underlying assets and the accretion expense was $1.0 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively, and $3.1 million and $1.2 million for the nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. The following table presents summarized financial information of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings, Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings as derived from the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of such entities for the each of the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively: Note 4. Balance Sheet Components Financing Receivables The Partnership's net investment in sales-type leases presented in "Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net" and "Long-term financing receivables, net" on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets is as follows: (1) Allowance for losses on financing receivables was $0.6 million and $0.7 million as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. (2) Accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets includes other trade accounts receivable of $8.3 million and $2.9 million as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. 18 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Current and Non-current Assets (1) For the Kingbird Project and the Quinto Project, the construction costs related to the network upgrade of a transmission grid belonging to a utility company are reimbursable by that utility company over five years from the date the project reached commercial operation. (2) Other current assets included $0.3 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.1 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.2 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August31, 2017 . Similarly, other current assets included $0.5 million due from SunPower related to system output performance warranties and system repairs in connection with $0.2 million of system output performance warranty accrual and $0.3 million of system repairs accrual recorded in the "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" line item on the consolidated balance sheet as of November30, 2016 . (3) Construction-in-progress as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 is the project assets related to the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. (4) Intangible assets represent a customer contract intangible that is amortized on a straight-line basis beginning on COD through the contract term end date of December 31, 2020. Operating revenues were reduced by $0.1 million and $0.3 million in the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 , respectively. Operating revenues were not affected by intangible assets in the three and nine months ended August31, 2016. 19 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Current Liabilities (1) Related party payable on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August31, 2017 consists of (i) $3.5 million related to the purchase price payable to SunPower, which will be funded by the tax equity investor for the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition and the Kern Phase 2(c) Acquisition; (ii) $0.9 million related to accrued distribution to tax equity investors; and (iii) less than $0.1 million for accounts payable to related parties associated with O&M, AMA and MSA fees owed to the Sponsors. Related party payable on the consolidated balance sheets as of November30, 2016 consists of (i) $19.5 million related to the purchase price payable to SunPower for the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 1(b) Acquisition, the Kern Phase 2(a) Acquisition and the Macy's Maryland Acquisition; (ii) $1.0 million related to accrued distribution to tax equity investors; and (iii) $0.1 million for accounts payable to related parties associated with O&M, AMA and MSA fees owed to the Sponsors. Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies Land Use Commitments The Partnership is a party to various agreements that provide for payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which projects under PPAs are located. The total minimum lease and easement commitments at August31, 2017 under these land use agreements are as follows: Solar Power System Performance Warranty Lease agreements require the Partnership to undertake a system output performance warranty. The Partnership has recorded in "Accounts payable and other current liabilities" amounts related to these system output performance warranties totaling $0.1 million and $0.2 million as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively. The Partnership has also recorded in "Other current assets" amounts of $0.1 million and $0.2 million as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , relating to anticipated performance warranty reimbursements from the O&M provider. 20 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The following table summarizes accrued system output performance warranty activity for the each of three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively: Asset Retirement Obligations The Partnership's AROs are based on estimated third-party costs associated with the decommissioning of the applicable project assets. Revisions to these costs may increase or decrease in the future as a result of changes in regulations, engineering designs and technology, permit modifications, inflation or other factors. Decommissioning activities generally occur over a period of time commencing at the end of the system's life. The following table summarizes ARO activity for each of the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively: Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Partnership may be notified of possible claims or assessments. The Partnership will record a provision for these claims when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss, or a range of the potential loss, can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed regularly and adjusted to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information or events pertaining to a particular case. Although the Partnership may, from time to time, be involved in litigation and claims arising out of its operations in the ordinary course of business, the Partnership is not a party to any litigation or governmental or other proceeding that the Partnership believes will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations, or liquidity. Environmental Contingencies The Partnership reviews its obligations as they relate to compliance with environmental laws, including site restoration and remediation. During each of the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , there were no known environmental contingencies that required the Partnership to recognize a liability. 21 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 6. Lease Agreements and Power Purchase Agreements Lease Agreements As of August31, 2017 , the Partnership's unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include approximately 5,800 residential lease agreements which have original terms of 20 years and are classified as either operating or sales-type leases. In addition, the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project has a lease term that will expire on December31, 2019 , and the lessee, who is an affiliate of First Solar, is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The following table presents the Partnership's minimum future rental receipts on operating leases (including the lease agreement for the Maryland Solar Project and the residential lease portfolio) placed in service as of August31, 2017 : (1) Minimum future rentals on operating leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. As of August31, 2017 , future maturities of net financing receivables for sales-type leases are as follows: (1) Minimum future rentals on sales-type leases placed in service do not include contingent rentals that may be received from customers under agreements that include performance-based incentives and executory costs. Power Purchase Agreements Under the terms of various PPAs, the Partnership's contracted counterparties may be obligated to take all or part of the output from the system at stipulated prices over defined periods. All PPAs associated with solar generation systems operating as of August31, 2017 have no minimum lease payments and all of the rental income under these leases is recorded as revenue when the electricity is delivered. SREC Sales Agreement The Partnership applies for and receives SRECs for power generated by certain of its solar power systems.The Partnership has entered into a sales agreement with a non-affiliated party (the "SREC Sales Agreement") to assist it in meeting its own emissions reduction or conservation requirements. Under the terms of the SREC Sales Agreement, the contracted counterparty is obligated to purchase an annual number of SRECs from the Partnership at stipulated prices over a defined period of time. The Partnership recognizes revenue and associated costs upon delivery of the SRECs to the counterparty.As of August31, 2017 , firm sales under the SREC Sales Agreement are as follows: 22 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Note 7. Debt and Financing Obligations The following table summarizes the Partnership's debt obligations on its unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets: Credit Facility On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended the credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Omnibus Agreement, (ii) to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. On September 30, 2016, OpCo entered into the Joinder Agreement, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million . Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% , (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. There will be no principal amortization over the term of the credit facility. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. OpCo has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the interest rate on a portion of the borrowings under the term loan facility. For more details, please read "-Note 8-Fair Value." OpCo's credit facility contains covenants including, among others, requiring the Partnership to maintain the following financial ratios: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio of not more than (a) 6.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending November 30, 2016 through November 30, 2017; and (b) 5.50 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of the Partnership or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. On April 5, 2017, First Solar notified the general partner's board of directors of its intention to explore alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership.Following such announcement, SunPower also notified the general partner's board of directors that it is exploring alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership. Although its Sponsors have publicly announced their current intentions, there is no assurance that either or both of its Sponsors will pursue or effect any particular alternative. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. The Joinder Agreement amended OpCo's credit facility to permit OpCo to incur up to $50.0 million in subordinated indebtedness from First Solar or its affiliate to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Stateline Project. As of August31, 2017 , the Partnership was in compliance with its debt covenants. OpCo's credit facility is collateralized by a pledge of the equity of OpCo and certain of its subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. 23 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued As of both August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , OpCo had approximately $54.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Stateline Promissory Note On December 1, 2016, in connection with the Stateline Acquisition, OpCo issued a promissory note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million . The Stateline Promissory Note is unsecured and matures on the date that is six months after the maturity date under OpCo's credit facility. Interest will accrue at a rate of 4.00% per annum, except it will accrue at a rate of 6.00% per annum (i) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a specified event of default and (ii) in respect of amounts accrued as payments-in-kind pursuant to the terms of the note. OpCo is not permitted to prepay the $50.0 million promissory note without the consent of certain lenders under its existing credit agreement (except for certain mandatory prepayments). Until OpCo has paid in full the principal and interest on promissory note, OpCo is restricted in its ability to: (i) acquire interests in additional projects (other than the acquisition of the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets, and the Kern Remaining Assets); (ii) use the net proceeds of equity issuances except as prescribed in the promissory note; (iii) incur additional indebtedness to which the promissory note would be subordinate; and (iv) extend the maturity date under OpCo's existing credit facility. August 2011 Letter of Credit Facility with Deutsche Bank In August 2011, the Predecessor's parent, SunPower, entered into a letter of credit facility agreement with Deutsche Bank, as administrative agent, and certain financial institutions. Payment of obligations under the letter of credit facility is guaranteed by the majority shareholder of SunPower, Total S.A. As of August31, 2017 , and November30, 2016 , letters of credit issued and outstanding under the August 2011 letter of credit facility with Deutsche Bank which is available to SunPower for the Quinto Project and the RPU Project totaled $0.2 million and $11.5 million , respectively. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, SunPower, as the Sponsor who contributed the Quinto Project, canceled one of its letter of credit facilities associated with the Quinto Project upon its achieving COD in November 2015. Since the RPU Project achieved COD in September 2015, SunPower, as the Sponsor who contributed the RPU Project, canceled the related letters of credit, and the Partnership has issued the required letters of credit under its revolving credit facility. Note 8. Fair Value Fair value is estimated by applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement (observable inputs are the preferred basis of valuation): Level 1-Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2-Measurements are inputs that are observable for assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly, other than quoted prices included within Level 1. Level 3-Prices or valuations that require management inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. The first two levels in the hierarchy are considered observable inputs and the last is considered unobservable. Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The following table presents the Partnership's assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis, categorized in accordance with the fair value hierarchy: Derivative financial instruments: On July 17, 2015, OpCo entered into interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $240.0 million . Under the interest rate swap agreements, OpCo paid a fixed swap rate of interest of 1.55% and the counterparties to the 24 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued agreements paid a floating interest rate based on three-month LIBOR at quarterly intervals through the maturity date of August 31, 2018. OpCo had the right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and any quarterly fixed payment date thereafter with a minimum of five business days' notification. OpCo exercised its right to cancel the interest rate swap agreements on August 31, 2016 and entered into new interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $250.0 million .Under the new interest rate swap agreements, OpCo will pay a fixed swap rate of interest of approximately 0.85% and the counterparties to the agreements will pay a floating interest rate based on one-month LIBOR at monthly intervals through the maturity date of August 31, 2018. On January 5, 2017, OpCo entered into another interest rate swap agreement intended to hedge the interest rate risk on the outstanding borrowings under the term loan with an aggregate notional value of $40.0 million . Under this interest rate swap agreement, OpCo will pay a fixed swap rate of interest of approximately 1.16% and the counterparty to the agreement will pay a floating interest rate based on one-month LIBOR at monthly intervals through the maturity date of August31, 2018 . As of both August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , these interest rate swap agreements had not been designated as cash flow hedges and are reflected at fair value on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of August31, 2017 , these interest rate swap agreements have been presented in other current assets on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet since the maturity date is within one year after the balance sheet date. As of November30, 2016 , these interest rate swap agreements have been presented in other long-term assets on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet since the maturity date is over one year after the balance sheet date. During the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 , the Partnership recorded an unrealized loss of $0.3 million and an unrealized gain of $0.3 million , respectively, within other expense (income) in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations related to the change in fair value. During the three and nine months ended August31, 2016 , the Partnership recorded an unrealized gain of $0.3 million and $0.5 million , respectively, within other expense (income) in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations related to the change in fair value. The primary inputs into the valuation of interest rate swaps are interest yield curves, interest rate volatility, and credit spreads. The Partnership's interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, since all significant inputs are corroborated by market observable data. There were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the period. Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis Long-term debt and financing obligations: The estimated fair value of the Partnership's long-term debt was classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , and approximated its carrying value of $712.2 million and $384.4 million , respectively. The term loan facility is a variable rate debt with the interest rate indexed to the market and reset on a frequent and short-term basis. The Stateline Promissory Note is a fixed rate debt and the fair value was estimated using the income approach based on observable market inputs. Note 9. Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests represent the portion of net assets in consolidated subsidiaries that are not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Partnership. For accounting purposes, the holders of noncontrolling interests of the Partnership include the Sponsors, which are SunPower and First Solar, as described in "-Note 1-Description of Business," and third-party investors under the tax equity financing facilities. As of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , First Solar and SunPower had noncontrolling interests of 28.0% and 36.5% , respectively, in OpCo. In addition, certain subsidiaries of OpCo have entered into tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems. The Partnership, through OpCo, holds controlling interests in these less-than-wholly-owned entities and has therefore fully consolidated these entities. The Partnership accounts for the portion of net assets using the HLBV Method in the consolidated entities attributable to the investors as "Redeemable noncontrolling interests" and "Noncontrolling interests" in its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries that are redeemable at the option of the noncontrolling interest holder are classified as "Redeemable noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries" between liabilities and equity on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets and the balance is the greater of the carrying value calculated under the HLBV Method or the redemption value. During the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 , OpCo acquired noncontrolling interests totaling $0.7 million and $1.7 million , respectively. Please read "-Note 2-Business Combinations" for further details. During the three and nine months ended August31, 2016 , OpCo acquired noncontrolling interests totaling $0.6 million and $36.8 million , respectively. Please read "-Note 3-Business Combinations" of the 2016 10-K for further details. 25 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued As of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , redeemable noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors after adjusting the carrying amount to the redemption value was $17.3 million and $17.6 million , respectively, and noncontrolling interests attributable to tax equity investors were $43.3 million and $40.8 million , respectively. During the three months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received $5.6 million and zero , respectively, contributions from third-party investors under the related facilities and attributed $1.6 million and $24.3 million , respectively, in losses to the third-party investors primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During the nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo received $24.4 million and $47.2 million , respectively, contributions from third-party investors under the related facilities and attributed $17.1 million and $112.1 million , respectively, in losses to the third-party investors primarily as a result of allocating certain assets, including tax credits, if any, to the investors. During the three months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo made distributions to third-party investors under the related facilities of $2.7 million and $2.3 million , respectively. During the nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , such indirect subsidiaries of OpCo made distributions to third-party investors under the related facilities of $6.7 million and $4.9 million , respectively. The following table presents the noncontrolling interest balances by entity, reported in shareholders' equity in the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 : Note 10. Shareholders' Equity On June 24, 2015, the Partnership completed its IPO by issuing 20,000,000 of its Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership to the public. On September 28, 2016 the Partnership sold in an underwritten registered public offering 8,050,000 Class A shares representing limited partner interests in the Partnership. ATM Program On January 30, 2017, the Partnership established the ATM Program under which the Partnership may sell Class A shares from time to time through the ATM Agents up to an aggregate sales price of $125.0 million .The Partnership may also sell Class A shares to any ATM Agent, as principal for its own account, at a price agreed upon at the time of the sale.The Partnership will use the net proceeds from sales under the ATM Program to purchase a number of common units in OpCo equal to the number of Class A shares issued under the ATM Program. OpCo may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, repaying borrowings under the Stateline Promissory Note and OpCo's credit facilities, and funding working capital or acquisitions. No shares were issued under the ATM Program during the quarter ended August31, 2017 . As of both August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , the Partnership owned a 35.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo as well as a controlling noneconomic managing member interest in OpCo, and the Sponsors collectively owned 51,000,000 Class B shares in the Partnership, with SunPower and First Solar having owned 28,883,075 and 22,116,925 Class B shares, respectively, and together, having owned a noncontrolling 64.5% limited liability company interest in OpCo. 26 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The following shares of the Partnership were outstanding as of August31, 2017 and November30, 2016 , respectively: Cash Distribution On July14, 2017 , the Partnership distributed $7.4 million on its Class A shares and OpCo distributed $13.5 million on its common and subordinated units, or in each case $0.2642 per share or unit, for the period from March 1, 2017 to May 31, 2017. Note 11. Net Income Per Share Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Class A shareholders by the weighted average number of Class A shares outstanding for the applicable period. Diluted net income per share is computed using basic weighted average Class A shares outstanding plus, if dilutive, any potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period using the treasury-stock-type method. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement entered into among the Partnership, the General Partner, OpCo, a wholly owned subsidiary of SunPower and a wholly owned subsidiary of First Solar, the Sponsors can tender OpCo common units and an equal number of such Sponsor's Class B shares for redemption, and the Partnership has the right to directly purchase the tendered OpCo common units and Class B shares for, subject to the approval of its conflicts committee, cash or the issuance of Class A shares of the Partnership. If the Partnership elects to issue Class A shares, it would cancel the tendered Class B shares and hold the OpCo common units with the other OpCo common units it previously held, since the number of Class A shares issued must at all times equal the number of OpCo common units held by the Partnership. Since the Partnership would be holding additional OpCo common units, the net income attributable to Class A shares would proportionately increase, resulting in no change to net income per share for the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. In addition, there were no potentially dilutive securities (including any stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units) for the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. 27 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share: (1) Up to the amount of OpCo common units held by Sponsors Note 12. Related Parties Management Services Agreements Immediately prior to the completion of the IPO on June 24, 2015, the Partnership, together with the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings, entered into similar but separate MSAs with affiliates of each of the Sponsors (each, a "Service Provider"). Under the MSAs, the Service Providers provide or arrange for the provision of certain administrative and management services for the Partnership and certain of its subsidiaries, including managing the Partnership's day-to-day affairs, in addition to those services that are provided under existing O&M agreements and AMAs between affiliates of the Sponsors and certain of the subsidiaries of the Partnership. In August 2015, the First Solar MSA and the SunPower MSA were amended to adjust the annual management fee payable to each respective Service Provider. Under the First Solar MSA, OpCo pays an annual management fee of $0.6 million to the First Solar Service Provider. Under the SunPower MSA, OpCo pays an annual management fee of $1.1 million to the SunPower Service Provider. These payments are subject to annual adjustments for inflation. On January 20, 2017, the parties thereto amended the SunPower MSA to include Kingbird Solar, LLC and the Kingbird Project Entities under certain aspects of SunPower's scope of managerial services effective April 30, 2016 in return for the associated AMA fee payable by First Solar Asset Management, LLC. Costs incurred for these services were $0.4 million and $1.3 million the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 , respectively, and $0.4 million and $1.2 million for the three and nine months ended August31, 2016 , respectively. 28 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued EPC Agreements Various projects are designed, engineered, constructed and commissioned pursuant to EPC agreements with affiliates of the Sponsors, which may include a 2 - to 10 -year system warranty against defects in materials, construction, fabrication and workmanship, and in some cases, may include a 25 -year power and product warranty on certain modules. As of August31, 2017 , all of the projects contributed by the Sponsors on the date of the IPO, along with the Henrietta Project, the Hooper Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern 2(b) Assets, the Kern 2(c) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Macy's Maryland Project and the Stateline Project have achieved COD. The Kern Phase 1(a) Assets are construction-in-progress as of August31, 2017 and achieved COD in September 2017. SunPower as the EPC provider is required to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets and pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, all the associated costs to complete the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets are obligations of SunPower. O&M Agreements and Asset Management Agreements The Project Entities and certain other subsidiaries have entered into O&M agreements and AMAs with affiliates of the Sponsors, as applicable (except where such persons are otherwise subject to O&M agreements or AMAs with unaffiliated third parties). Under the terms of the O&M agreements and the AMAs, such affiliates have agreed to provide a variety of operation, maintenance and asset management services, and certain performance warranties or availability guarantees, to the subsidiaries of the Partnership in exchange for annual fees, which are subject to certain adjustments. Costs incurred for O&M and AMA services were $1.7 million and $1.5 million for the three months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively, and $5.0 million and $3.8 million for the nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. Omnibus Agreement The Partnership has entered into the Omnibus Agreement with its Sponsors, the General Partner, OpCo and Holdings. The material provisions of the Omnibus Agreement are as follows: (a) each Sponsor was granted an exclusive right to perform certain services not otherwise covered by an O&M agreement or an AMA on behalf of the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (b) with respect to any project in the Portfolio that had not achieved commercial operation as of the date contributed to the Partnership, the Sponsor who contributed such project agreed to pay to OpCo all costs required to complete such project, as well as certain liquidated damages in the event such project fails to achieve operability pursuant to an agreed schedule (subject to certain adjustments); (c) with respect to the Quinto Project and the North Star Project, the Sponsor who contributed such project agreed to pay to OpCo the difference, if any, between the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received in respect of such Sponsor's contributed project at the time of the IPO and the amount of network upgrade refunds projected to be received given the actual amount of upgrade costs incurred in respect of such project; (d) each Sponsor agreed to certain undertakings on the part of its affiliates who are members of the Project Entities or who provide asset management, construction, operating and maintenance and other services to the Project Entities contributed by such Sponsor; (e) to the extent a Sponsor continues to post credit support on behalf of a Project Entity after it has been contributed to OpCo, OpCo agreed to reimburse such Sponsor upon any demand or draw under such credit support, and the Sponsor agreed to maintain such support pursuant to the applicable underlying contractual or regulatory requirements; (f) each Sponsor agreed to indemnify OpCo for any costs it incurs with respect to certain tax-related events and events in connection with tax equity financing arrangements; and (g) the parties agreed to a mutual undertaking regarding confidentiality and use of names, trademarks, trade names and other insignias. The schedules of the Omnibus Agreement are amended in connection with each project acquisition to include the solar power systems acquired effective the closing date of such acquisition. During the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 , the Partnership received less than $0.1 million and $0.1 million , respectively, in indemnity payments from Sponsors related to the delay in commercial operations of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets. During the three and nine months ended August31, 2016 , the Partnership received $0.1 million and $10.0 million , respectively, related to a shortfall associated with the network upgrade refunds projected to be received. Promissory Notes On November 25, 2015, OpCo issued a short-term promissory note to First Solar in the principal amount of $2.0 million (the "Short-term Note"), in exchange for First Solar's loan of such amount to OpCo. Upon the receipt of certain payments by the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity from SDG&E under the power purchase agreement between the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity and SDG&E, which had been previously withheld pending completion of an administrative requirement (each, a "Specified 29 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Payment"), OpCo was obligated to repay a portion of the principal amount of the Short-term Note equal to such Specified Payment and the unpaid balance of all interest accrued under the Short-term Note to and including the date of such repayment. Interest under the Short-term Note accrued at a rate of 1% on the portion of the principal of the Short-term Note equal to the amount of each Specified Payment from the date SDG&E remitted such payment to the Solar Gen 2 Project Entity through the date that OpCo repaid such amount to First Solar as described above. OpCo is permitted to prepay the Short-term Note at any time without penalty or premium. On December 30, 2016, OpCo repaid the Short-term Note to First Solar. In connection with the closing of the Stateline Acquisition on December 1, 2016, OpCo issued the Stateline Promissory Note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million . Please read "-Note 7- Debt and Financing Obligations" for further details. Purchase and Sale Agreements On November11, 2016 , OpCo entered into the Stateline Purchase Agreement with First Solar and First Solar Asset Management, LLC pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Stateline Project, as further described above in "-Note 3-Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates." Effective December 1, 2016, OpCo acquired Stateline Holdings from First Solar for a total purchase price of $329.5 million (before consideration of acquisition-related costs). On January26, 2016 , OpCo entered into the Kern Purchase Agreement with SunPower pursuant to which OpCo agreed to purchase an interest in the Kern Project, as further described above in "-Note 2-Business Combinations." Effective January 26, 2016, a subsidiary of OpCo acquired from SunPower all of the class B limited liability company interests of the Kern Class B Partnership.Pursuant to the Kern Purchase Agreement, the purchase price for the Kern Project will be paid by OpCo when each phase of the project reaches "mechanical completion." In addition, on January 22, 2016, a subsidiary of the Kern Class B Partnership entered into a tax equity financing facility with a third-party investor, which allocates to OpCo a certain share of cash flows from the Kern Project pursuant to a specified distribution waterfall. The tax equity investor made capital contributions to fund purchase price payments of approximately $29.2 million , of which $0.9 million , $1.8 million , $1.3 million , $6.7 million , $8.2 million , $6.3 million , and $4.0 million was paid on January 22, 2016, September 9, 2016, November 30, 2016, December 14, 2016, February 24, 2017, June 9, 2017, and September 28, 2017, respectively. First Solar ROFO Agreement Pursuant to the First Solar ROFO Agreement, First Solar previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of five years. Such solar projects included the 179 MW Switch Station solar generation project in Nevada ("Switch Station"), the 40 MW Cuyama solar generation project in California ("Cuyama"), and the 280 MW California Flats solar generation project in California ("California Flats"). On February 13, 2017, OpCo waived the 45 -day negotiation period under the First Solar ROFO Agreement with respect to Switch Station and on May 15, 2017, OpCo waived the 45-day negotiation period under the First Solar ROFO Agreement with respect to Cuyama and California Flats; following such waivers, First Solar had the right to offer and sell Switch Station, Cuyama, and California Flats to a third party, in accordance with the terms of the First Solar ROFO Agreement. On July 13, 2017, August 17, 2017, and August 22, 2017, First Solar sold the interests subject to the First Solar ROFO Agreement in Switch Station, Cuyama, and California Flats, respectively, to third parties, eliminating OpCo's ability to acquire such interests or any related assets. In addition, with First Solar's sale of such interests in Switch Station, Cuyama, and California Flats, no further projects remain subject to the First Solar ROFO Agreement. SunPower ROFO Agreement On February 13, 2017, OpCo entered into the Second Amendment and Waiver to Right of First Offer Agreement (the "Waiver") with SunPower. Pursuant to SunPower ROFO Agreement, SunPower previously granted to OpCo a right of first offer to purchase certain solar energy generating facilities for a period of 5 years. Such solar projects included the 100 MW El Pelicano solar generation project in Chile ("El Pelicano") and the Boulder Solar 1 solar generation project in Nevada ("Boulder Solar").Pursuant to the Waiver, OpCo waived its rights under the ROFO Agreement with respect to El Pelicano. The Waiver also contains customary representations, warranties and agreements of OpCo and SunPower. On August 11, 2017, OpCo waived the 45-day negotiation period under the SunPower ROFO Agreement with respect to Boulder Solar; following such waiver, SunPower has the right to offer and sell Boulder Solar to a third party, in accordance with the terms of the SunPower ROFO Agreement. 30 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement The Maryland Solar Project Entity has leased the Maryland Solar Project to an affiliate of First Solar. Under the arrangement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. The lease agreement will expire on December31, 2019 (unless terminated earlier pursuant to its terms). FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. ("FirstEnergy"), the Partnership's offtake counterparty with respect to the Maryland Solar Project, had its credit rating downgraded multiple times in 2016 and 2017. As of August 14, 2017, the credit rating of FirstEnergy was Caa1 and CCC- by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, respectively, both of which are below investment grade. In addition, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services placed FirstEnergy on CreditWatch with negative implications, based on a $1.51 billion pretax impairment charge that the company's competitive business will incur from the deactivation of several coal units. In November 2016, FirstEnergy Corp., the parent of FirstEnergy, announced a strategic review of its competitive business, pursuant to which the company would seek to move away from competitive markets. FirstEnergy's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 reported a substantial uncertainty as to their ability to continue as a going concern. As further described in Part III, Item 13. "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence-Agreements with our Sponsors-Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement" in the 2016 10-K, First Solar's affiliate is obligated underthe Maryland Solar lease arrangement to pay a fixed amount of rent that is set based on the expected operations of the plant. Such lease agreement will terminate upon any termination of the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project or the site ground lease.Pursuant to the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project, a FirstEnergy bankruptcy would be an event of default under the PPA, permitting (subject to applicable law) the termination of the PPA although FirstEnergy may choose to renegotiate or maintain the PPA in its current form. Upon any such early termination of the lease agreement, First Solar's affiliate is obligated to return the facility in its then-current condition and location to the Partnership, without any warranties, and no rent shall thereafter be payable by such First Solar affiliate. In the event that the PPA was terminated and First Solar were to subsequently terminate the Maryland Solar Lease Agreement, the Maryland Solar Project would have no agreement through which to sell the energy that it produces, which equates to approximately $8.0 million in annual revenue, and the Partnership can enter into a replacement offtake agreement with a different counterparty. As of August31, 2017 , FirstEnergy is current with respect to the payments due under the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project. The Partnership evaluates its long-lived assets, including property and equipment and projects, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. In consideration of the above events, the Partnership evaluated whether the carrying value of the project may no longer be recoverable using a probability-weighted assessment of potential outcomes and related undiscounted cash flows. As a result of such evaluation, the Partnership concluded the estimated future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the project over its estimated useful life exceeded the $52.0 million carrying value of the Maryland Solar Project's property and equipment as of August 31, 2017. Such assessment is subject to significant uncertainty and could change significantly as facts and circumstances change. In the event that the PPA for the Maryland Solar Project was terminated, if the Partnership is unable to enter into a replacement agreement or sell the energy it produces under similar terms, the carrying value of the project may not be recoverable, and the Partnership could record a material impairment loss in the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value. Note 13. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal rate of 35% primarily due to the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. The Partnership's financial reporting year-end is November 30 while its tax year-end is December 31. The Partnership has elected to base the tax provision on the financial reporting year; therefore, since the 2017 financial reporting year is December 1, 2016 through November 30, 2017, the taxable income (loss) included in the 2017 tax provision is for the tax year ended December 31, 2016. The provision accrued at the financial reporting year-end will be a discrete period computation, and the tax credits and permanent differences recognized in that accrual will be those generated between the tax year-end date and the financial reporting year-end date. With the exception of minimum state income and franchise tax payments, any amounts recorded for income tax provision (benefit) represent deferred income taxes being provided on the net income before taxes of OpCo, a non-taxable partnership, which is allocated to the Partnership. Although organized as a limited partnership under state law, the Partnership elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Partnership is subject to U.S. federal income taxes at regular corporate rates 31 8point3 Energy Partners LP Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Continued on its net taxable income, and distributions it makes to holders of its Class A shares will be taxable as ordinary dividend income to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits as computed for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined on the basis of the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are provided against deferred tax assets when management cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that some portion or all deferred tax assets will be realized. The Partnership recognizes deferred tax assets to the extent that it believes these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, the Partnership considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. If the Partnership determines that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, it would make an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which would reduce the provision for income taxes. The Partnership records uncertain tax positions on the basis of a two-step process whereby (1) it determines whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained on the basis of the technical merits of the position and (2) for those tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the Partnership recognizes the largest amount of tax benefit that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Note 14. Segment Information The Partnership manages its Portfolio as one segment that operates a portfolio of solar energy generation systems. It operates as a single reportable segment based on the "management" approach. Long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment, net, were located in the United States. All operating revenues for each of the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 were from customers located in the United States. The following customers each comprised 10% or more of the its total revenue for each of the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively: * Total revenue attributable to these customers was less than 10% of the Partnership's total revenue for the period. Note 15. Subsequent Events Distributions On September22, 2017 , the general partner's board of directors declared a cash distribution for our Class A shares of $0.2721 per share for the third quarter of 2017. The general partner's board of directors declared a corresponding cash distribution for OpCo's common and subordinated units, which includes all common and subordinated units held by First Solar and SunPower. The third quarter distribution will be paid on October13, 2017 to shareholders and unitholders of record as of October3, 2017 . Termination of Kern Purchase Agreement The conditions precedent to the acquisition of the Kern Remaining Assets set forth in the Kern Letter Agreement were not met on or prior to September 30, 2017. On October 3, 2017, SunPower provided written notice to OpCo terminating the Kern Purchase Agreement, pursuant to Section 9.01(c) of the Kern Purchase Agreement, with respect to OpCo's obligations to purchase the Kern Remaining Assets pursuant to the Kern Purchase Agreement and the Kern Letter Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Kern Letter Agreement, the Kern Remaining Assets are now considered SunPower ROFO Projects. 32 Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2016 10-K. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or forecasts of future events. Words such as "could," "will," "may," "assume," "forecast," "position," "predict," "strategy," "expect," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate," "believe," "project," "budget," "potential" or "continue" and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, forward-looking statements contained in this report include statements concerning our Sponsors' ownership interest in us, our expectations of plans, strategies, objectives, growth and anticipated financial and operational performance. Forward-looking statements can be affected by assumptions used or by known or unknown risks or uncertainties. Consequently, no forward-looking statements can be guaranteed. A forward-looking statement may include a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying the forward-looking statement. We believe that we have chosen these assumptions or bases in good faith and that they are reasonable. However, when considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this report and in the 2016 10-K. Those risk factors and other factors noted throughout this report and in the 2016 10-K could cause our actual results to differ materially from those disclosed in any forward-looking statement. You should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the risk factors included in this report and the 2016 10-K to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Please read "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A. of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in Part I, Item 1A. of the 2016 10-K. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements except as required by law. Overview Description of Partnership We are a growth-oriented limited partnership formed by First Solar and SunPower, our Sponsors, to own, operate and acquire solar energy generation projects. Our Portfolio As of August31, 2017 , our Portfolio consisted of interests in 946 MW of solar energy projects. As of August31, 2017 , we owned interests in ten utility-scale solar energy projects, all of which are operational. These assets represent 92% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. As of August31, 2017 , we owned interests in four C&I solar energy projects, three of which were operational and one of which was in late-stage construction, and a portfolio of residential DG Solar assets, which represent 8% of the generating capacity of our Portfolio. Our Portfolio is located entirely in the United States and consists of utility-scale and C&I assets that sell substantially all of their output under long-term, fixed-price offtake agreements primarily with investment grade offtake counterparties and residential DG Solar assets that are leased under long-term fixed-price offtake agreements with high credit quality residential customers with FICO scores averaging 765 at the time of the initial contract. As of August31, 2017 , the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 19.4 years. For an overview of the assets that comprise our Portfolio as of August31, 2017 , please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 1- Description of Business." How We Generate Revenues Under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each Utility Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements have certain availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, then in some cases the applicable project is required to pay the offtake counterparty a specified damages amount, and in some cases the 33 offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement or reduce the contract quantity. In addition, under our Utility Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 60 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any. Under the offtake agreements of our C&I Project Entities, each C&I Project Entity generally receives a fixed price over the term of the offtake agreement with respect to 100% of its output, subject to certain adjustments. Certain of our C&I Project Entities' offtake agreements have availability or production requirements, and if such requirements are not met, the offtake counterparty has the right to terminate the offtake agreement. Under our C&I Project Entities' offtake agreements, each party typically has the right to terminate upon written notice ranging from ten to 30 days following the occurrence of an event of default that has not been cured within the applicable cure period, if any. One of our C&I Project Entities has additionally entered into a SREC Agreement under which SRECs are sold to a non-affiliated party at a fixed price over the term of the agreement. Under our Residential Portfolio Project Entity's offtake agreements, homeowners are obligated to make lease payments to the Residential Portfolio Project Entity on a monthly basis. The customer's monthly payment is fixed based on a calculation that takes into account expected solar energy generation, and certain of our current offtake agreements contain price escalators with an average of a 1% increase annually. Customers are eligible to purchase the leased solar power systems to facilitate the sale or transfer of their home. The agreements also include an early buy-out option at fair market value exercisable in the seventh year that allows customers to purchase the solar power system. How We Evaluate Our Operations Our management uses a variety of financial metrics to analyze our performance. The key financial metrics we evaluate are Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution. Adjusted EBITDA . We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income plus interest expense, net of interest income, income tax provision, depreciation, amortization and accretion, including our proportionate share of net interest expense, income taxes and depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method, and share-based compensation and transaction costs incurred for our acquisitions of projects; and excluding the effect of certain other non-cash or non-recurring items that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance such as, but not limited to, mark to market adjustments to the fair value of derivatives related to our interest rate hedges. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure. This measurement is not recognized in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be viewed as an alternative to U.S. GAAP measures of performance. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA is net income. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of financial performance and borrowers' ability to service debt. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA is used by our management for internal planning purposes including certain aspects of our consolidated operating budget and capital expenditures. It is also used by investors to assess the ability of our assets to generate sufficient cash flows to make distributions to our Class A shareholders. However, Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not reflect our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital, does not reflect significant interest expense or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our outstanding debt or cash distributions on tax equity, does not reflect payments made or future requirements for income taxes, and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income or any other performance measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of Adjusted EBITDA are not necessarily comparable to EBITDA as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income. Cash Available for Distribution. We use cash available for distribution, which we define as Adjusted EBITDA less equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, cash interest paid, cash income taxes paid, maintenance capital expenditures, cash distributions to noncontrolling 34 interests and principal amortization payments on any project-level indebtedness plus cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates, indemnity payments and promissory notes from Sponsors, test electricity generation, cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases, state and local rebates and cash proceeds for reimbursable network upgrade costs. Our cash flow is generated from distributions we receive from OpCo each quarter. OpCo's cash flow is generated primarily from distributions from the Project Entities. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our Class A shareholders depends primarily on the ability of the Project Entities to make cash distributions to OpCo and the ability of OpCo to make cash distributions to its unitholders. We believe cash available for distribution is useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance because securities analysts and other interested parties use such calculations as a measure of our ability to make our distributions. In addition, cash available for distribution is used by our management team for determining future acquisitions and managing our growth. The U.S. GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available for distribution is net income. However, cash available for distribution has limitations as an analytical tool because it does not capture the level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the operating performance of our projects, does not include changes in operating assets and liabilities and excludes the effect of certain other cash flow items, all of which could have a material effect on our financial condition and results from operations. Cash available for distribution is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and should not be considered an alternative to net income or any other performance measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, nor is it indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs. In addition, our calculations of cash available for distribution are not necessarily comparable to cash available for distribution as calculated by other companies. Investors should not rely on these measures as a substitute for any U.S. GAAP measure, including net income . The following table presents a reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA and cash available for distribution for the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 : 35 (1) Represents acquisition-related financial advisory, legal and accounting fees associated with ROFO Project interests purchased and expected to be purchased by us in the future. (2) Represents the changes in fair value of interest rate swaps that were not designated as cash flow hedges. (3) Represents our proportionate share of net interest expense, depreciation, amortization and accretion from our unconsolidated affiliates that are accounted for under the equity method. (4) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates represents the earnings from the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project, the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the Henrietta Project, and the Stateline Project and is included on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. (5) Represents cash interest payments related to OpCo's senior secured credit facility and the Stateline Promissory Note. (6) Represents repayment of promissory note to First Solar. (7) Cash distributions from unconsolidated affiliates represent the cash received by OpCo with respect to its 49% interest in the Solar Gen 2 Project, the North Star Project, the Lost Hills Blackwell Project, the Henrietta Project, and its 34% interest in the Stateline Project. (8) Represents indemnity payments from the Sponsors owed to OpCo in accordance with the Omnibus Agreement. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties." (9) State and local rebates represent cash received from state or local governments for owning certain solar power systems. The receipt of state and local rebates is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue. (10) Cash proceeds from sales-type residential leases, net, represent gross rental cash receipts for sales-type leases, less sales-type revenue and lease interest income that is already reflected in net income during the period. The corresponding revenue for such leases was recognized in the period in which such lease was placed in service, rather than in the period in which the rental payment was received, due to the characterization of these leases underU.S.GAAP. (11) For the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 , test electricity generation represents the sale of electricity that was generated prior to COD by the Macy's Maryland Project. For the nine months ended August31, 2016 , test electricity generation represents the sale of electricity that was generated prior to COD by the Kingbird Project. Solar systems may begin generating electricity prior to COD as a result of the installation and interconnection of individual solar modules, which occurs over time during the construction and commission period. The sale of test electricity generation is accounted for as a reduction in the asset carrying value rather than operating revenue prior to COD, even though it generates cash for the related Project Entity. (12) Cash proceeds from a utility company related toreimbursable network upgrade costs associated with the Quinto Project and the Kingbird Project. Significant Factors and Trends Affecting Our Business We expect the following factors will affect our results of operations: Power Purchase Agreements Our revenues are a function of the volume of electricity generated and sold by our projects and rental payments under lease agreements. The assets in our Portfolio sell substantially all of their output or are leased under long-term, fixed price offtake agreements primarily with investment grade utility-scale and C&I offtakers, as well as high credit quality residential customers with an average FICO score of 765 at the time of initial contract. As of August31, 2017 , the weighted average remaining life of offtake agreements across our Portfolio was 19.4 years, with the offtake agreements of our Utility Project Entities having remaining terms ranging from 15.6 to 26.3 years and our C&I offtake agreements and residential offtake agreements having remaining terms ranging from 15.0 to 19.5 years. We believe long-term agreements with creditworthy customers substantially mitigate volatility in our cash flows. As of August31, 2017 , two offtake counterparties were placed on CreditWatch by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, increasing our credit risk associated with these customers. Please read Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Project Agreements-We rely on a limited number of offtake counterparties and we are exposed to the risk that they are unwilling or unable to fulfill their contractual obligations to us or that they otherwise terminate their offtake agreements with us" and Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 12-Related Parties-Maryland Solar Lease Arrangement." 36 Operation of Projects Our revenues are a function of the volume of electricity generated by our projects during a particular period, which is impacted by the number of systems that have achieved commercial operations, as well as both scheduled and unexpected repair and maintenance required to keep our systems operational. Equipment performance represents the primary factor affecting our operating results because equipment downtime impacts the volume of the electricity that we are able to generate from our systems. Future Acquisitions Our ability to grow our business and increase our quarterly cash distributions could be impacted by a number of factors and trends that affect our industry generally, including the development of any ROFO Projects we may acquire in the future. Our ability to acquire ROFO Projects is dependent on our ability to agree on terms with our Sponsors, our ability to borrow additional funds and access capital markets, our Sponsors' ability to complete the development of the ROFO Projects and our Sponsors' decision to sell the ROFO Projects they develop. We and our Sponsors have agreed in the past to make several adjustments to our ROFO Portfolio. We may in the future continue working with our Sponsors to make adjustments to our ROFO Portfolio, including to remove, or waive the negotiation obligations for, projects that we do not intend to acquire at the time our Sponsors plan to offer them. Such removals or waivers are subject to the approval of the board of directors of our General Partner and/or the board's conflicts committee. The removal of any projects from the ROFO Portfolio or the waiver of the negotiation obligations with respect to any projects would reduce the likelihood that we would acquire such projects. In addition, with First Solar's sale of the interests in the Switch Station project, the Cuyama project and the California Flats project, no further projects remain subject to the First Solar ROFO Agreement. In addition, the development of solar energy projects by project developers, including our Sponsors, may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected by the outcome of the petition filed by Suniva, Inc., a U.S.-based manufacturer of solar cells, in April 2017, with the U.S. International Trade Commission ("USITC") under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 (the "Section 201 Petition"). The Section 201 Petition seeks various remedies including tariffs and restrictions on foreign-manufactured crystalline silicon PV cells and modules imported into the United States. On September 22, 2017, the USITC determinedsuch products are being imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury to the relevant domestic industry. The USITC will now proceed to the remedy phase of its investigation. The uncertainty surrounding the potential outcome of the Section 201 Petition may cause market volatility, price fluctuations, supply shortages and project delays, adversely affecting our ability to acquire such projects. Please read Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-SunPower's failure to complete the development of the SunPower ROFO Projects or project developers', including our Sponsors', failure to develop other solar energy projects, including those opportunities that are part of our Sponsors' development pipeline, could have a significant effect on our ability to grow." Demand for Solar Energy United States energy demand is increasing due to economic development and population growth. The U.S. Energy Information Administration's January 2017 Annual Energy Outlook projects consumption of renewable energy to increase the fastest of all energy sectors through 2040, on a percentage basis, with solar capacity representing 50% of new capacity additions after 2030, coupled with continued retirements of older, less efficient, fossil fuel producing units in response to the Clean Power Plan, availability of federal tax credits for renewable electricity generation and capacity during the early years of the projection, and state renewable portfolio standard programs. With exposure to volatile fossil fuel costs, increasing concern about carbon emissions and a variety of other factors, customers are seeking alternatives to traditional sources of electricity generation. As a form of electricity generation that is not dependent on fossil fuels, does not produce greenhouse gas emissions and whose costs are falling, solar energy is well-positioned to continue to capture an increasing share of this new build capacity. We believe we are well-positioned to benefit from this increased demand for solar energy. However, the demand for solar energy could change at any time, especially as a result of a decline in commodity prices, including the price of natural gas, or a change in the federal, state, or local policies regulating natural gas, coal, oil and other fossil fuels, which could lower prices for fuel sources used to produce energy from other technologies and reduce the demand for solar energy. For more information about the risks associated with changing demand for solar energy, please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-If solar energy technology is not suitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return, or if sufficient additional demand for solar power systems does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our ability to acquire accretive projects may decrease" in the 2016 10-K. 37 Government Incentives Our Portfolio benefits from certain federal, state and local incentives designed to promote the development and use of solar energy. These incentives include accelerated tax depreciation, ITCs, RPS programs and net metering policies. These incentives make the development of solar energy projects more competitive by providing tax credits and accelerated depreciation for a portion of the development and construction costs, decreasing the costs associated with developing and building such projects. In addition, these incentives create demand for renewable energy assets through RPS programs and the reduction or removal of these incentives may diminish the market for future solar energy offtake agreements and reduce the ability for solar developers to compete for future solar energy offtake agreements. A loss or reduction in such incentives could decrease the attractiveness of solar energy projects to developers, including our Sponsors, which could reduce our acquisition opportunities. For example, the ITC, a federal income tax credit for 30% of eligible basis, is scheduled to fall to 26% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2020, 22% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2021, and 10% of eligible basis for solar projects that commence construction during 2022 or thereafter or are placed into service on or after January 1, 2024. The current administration's proposed environmental and tax policies may create regulatory uncertainty in the clean energy sector, including the solar energy sector, and may lead to a reduction or removal of various clean energy programs and initiatives designed to curtail climate change.For more information about the risks associated with these government incentives, please read Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors-Government regulations providing incentives and subsidies for solar energy could change at any time, including pursuant to the proposed environmental and tax policies of the current administration, and such changes may negatively impact our growth strategy" in the 2016 10-K. The projects in our Portfolio are generally unaffected by the trends discussed above, given that all of the electricity to be generated by our projects are sold under fixed-price offtake agreements, which, as of August31, 2017 , have a weighted average remaining life of approximately 19.4 years. In addition, our near-term growth strategy is also largely insulated from the trends discussed above. We expect that most of our short-term growth will come from opportunities to acquire the ROFO Projects, all of which will have executed power sale agreements at the time of any acquisition by us. Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates We prepare our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses recorded in our financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. In addition to our most critical estimates discussed below, we also have other key accounting policies that are less subjective and, therefore, judgments involved in their application would not have a material impact on our reported results of operations. Please read Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 2-Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the 2016 10-K. There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates since November 30, 2016. 38 Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended August31, 2017 Compared to Three and Nine Months Ended August31, 2016 Revenues Over 90% of our operating revenues for both the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , were comprised of lease revenue from our utility-scale assets, C&I assets and Residential Portfolio. The Partnership's only revenue streams not from the leasing of solar power systems are from the PPA and SREC Sales Agreement entered into by the Macy's Maryland Project Entity and contracted counterparties. All revenues for the periods presented were generated in the United States. Residential systems are leased under lease agreements which are classified for accounting purposes either as sales-type leases or operating leases. As all the leases owned by the Predecessor were placed into service prior to fiscal 2015, all revenue related to the NPV of the minimum lease payments for sales-type leases has been recognized as of December 28, 2014. Accordingly, other than interest revenue, we had no sales-type lease revenue on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 . For those residential leases classified as sales-type leases, the NPV of the minimum lease payments, net of executory costs, is recognized as revenue when the leased asset is placed in service. Executory costs represent estimated lease operation and maintenance costs, including insurance, to be paid by the lessor, including any profit thereon. This NPV is inclusive of 39 certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments. The difference between the net amount and the gross amount of a sales-type lease is amortized as revenue over the lease term using the interest method. Revenue from executory costs is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. For those residential leases classified as operating leases, revenue associated with renting the solar power system and related executory costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, almost all of which are 20 years. We do not record certain fixed and determinable state or local rebates. Previously, certain of these fixed and determinable state or local rebates defined in the lease document as part of minimum lease payments, were recorded as deferred revenue in the Predecessor's balance sheets when the lease was placed in service and amortized to revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Total revenues increased by $1.6 million , or 6% , for the three months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended August31, 2016 , and increased by $7.6 million , or 16% , for the nine months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended August31, 2016 , due to (i) revenue generated from the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets and Kern 2(b) Assets, which commenced operations subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal 2016, and the Kingbird Project, which commenced operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and (ii) net revenue recognized under the SREC Sales Agreement. Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of Operations : Cost of operations primarily includes expenses related to O&M agreements and land lease expenses. The increase of $0.1 million , or 7% , for the three months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended August31, 2016 , and the increase of $1.4 million , or 29% , for the nine months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended August31, 2016 , was primarily driven by (i) increased expenses associated with operating the solar power systems due to the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, and Kern 2(b) Assets, which commenced operations subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal 2016, and the Kingbird Project, which commenced operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and (ii) costs associated with the sale and delivery of SRECs. Selling, General and Administrative : SG&A expense primarily includes operating expenses such as audit, legal, insurance, independent board of directors services and fees under the AMAs and MSAs with our Sponsors. The increase of $0.2 million , or 14% , for the three months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended August31, 2016 , and the increase of $0.8 million , or 16% , for the nine months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended August31, 2016 , was primarily driven by additional expenses associated with operating the solar power systems for the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, and Kern 2(b) Assets, which commenced operations subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal 2016. Depreciation and Accretion: Depreciation expense reflects costs associated with depreciation of our solar power system assets that have been placed in service. The increase of $0.9 million , or 14% for the three months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended August31, 2016 , and the increase of $4.6 million , or 28% , for the nine months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended August31, 2016 , was primarily driven by the commencement of operations, and related depreciation, of the Macy's Maryland Project, the Kern Phase 1(b) Asset, and the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, and Kern 2(b) Assets, which commenced operations subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal 2016. Acquisition-related Transaction Costs: Acquisition-related transactions costs represent legal and consulting fees incurred in connection with the acquisitions. The decrease of $0.6 million , or 97% , for the three months ended August31, 2017 40 as compared to the three months ended August31, 2016 , and the decrease of $2.2 million , or 98% , for the nine months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended August31, 2016 , was primarily driven by the fees incurred in connection with the Kern Phase 1(a) Acquisition in January 2016, the Kingbird Acquisition in March 2016, the Hooper Acquisition in April 2016, and the Macy's Maryland Acquisition in July 2016. Transaction costs associated with acquiring the Kern Project Entity were primarily incurred by the Partnership in connection with the initial phase of the acquisition which occurred in the first half of fiscal 2016. Other Expense, net Interest Expense: Cash interest expense for the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 relates to fees associated with outstanding borrowings under OpCo's senior secured credit facility and the Stateline Promissory Note. Cash interest expense for the three and nine months ended August31, 2016 relates to fees associated with outstanding borrowings under OpCo's senior secured credit facility. Non-cash interest expense for the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 relates to debt issuance costs associated with OpCo's senior secured credit facility. Please read Part I, Item 1. "Financial Information-Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements-Note 7-Debt and Financing Obligations" for rates and borrowing activity. The interest incurred related to our projects that are under construction is not reflected as an expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations, as it is capitalized to construction-in-progress until the solar power system is ready for its intended use. Interest expense for the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 included non-cash interest expense of $0.3 million and $0.7 million , respectively, and cash interest expense of $5.8 million and $16.7 million , respectively. Interest expense for the three and nine months ended August31, 2016 included non-cash interest expense of $0.1 million and $0.4 million , respectively, and cash interest expense of $3.1 million and $8.7 million , respectively. Non-cash interest expense increased $0.2 million for the three months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended August31, 2016 , and increased $0.3 million for the nine months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended August31, 2016 , primarily due to the debt issuance costs associated with the drawdown of our $250.0 million incremental term loan facility and additional drawdowns under our $200.0 million revolving credit facility. Cash interest expense increased $2.7 million , or 90% , for the three months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended August31, 2016 , and increased $8.0 million , or 92% , for the nine months ended August31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended August31, 2016 , primarily due the Stateline Promissory Note issued on December 1, 2016, as well as fees associated with the drawdown of our $250.0 million incremental term loan facility and additional drawdowns under our revolving credit facility. Interest Income: Interest income represents the accrued interest on reimbursable network upgrade costs related to the Quinto Project and the Kingbird Project. These costs plus accrued interest are reimbursable by the applicable utility company over five years from when the project achieves commercial operation. Interest income was $0.3 million for both the three months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively, and $0.9 million for both the nine months ended August31, 2017 and August31, 2016 , respectively. Other Expense (Income): Other expense for the three months ended August31, 2017 of $0.3 million relates to the unrealized loss related to the mark-to-market valuation adjustment of interest rate swaps associated with our term loan facility.Other income for the nine months ended August31, 2017 of $0.5 million relates to (i) a $0.3 million unrealized gain related to the mark-to-market valuation adjustment of interest rate swaps associated with our term loan facility, and (ii) $0.2 million of payments received under the Partnership's O&M agreement with First Solar associated with performance of certain projects. Other income in the three and nine months ended August31, 2016 primarily relates to an unrealized gain on interest rate swap associated with our term loan facility of $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively. We enter into interest rate swap agreements to economically hedge the cash flows on our term loan facility. The changes in fair value are recorded in other 41 expense (income), net in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations as these hedges are not accounted for under hedge accounting. Income Tax Provision Our tax rate is primarily affected by the tax impact of equity in earnings, the tax impact of noncontrolling interest, and state tax rates (net of federal benefit) in various jurisdictions, most significantly California. We included the income tax provision related to our equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees in the income tax provision line of the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Our income tax provision primarily represents deferred federal and state taxes on the net income of OpCo, a non-taxable partnership, that is allocated to the Partnership (exclusive of income tax but after noncontrolling interest). The decrease in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the three months ended August31, 2017 of 18.1% compared to 19.4% for the three months ended August31, 2016 is the result of (i) an increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and (ii) lower income before income taxes for the three months ended August31, 2017 of $10.4 million compared to income before income taxes of $12.9 million for the three months ended August31, 2016 . The decrease in income tax provision as a percentage of revenues for the nine months ended August31, 2017 of 14.5% compared to 32.7% for the nine months ended August31, 2016 is the result of (i) an increase in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, and (ii) lower income before income taxes for the nine months ended August31, 2017 of $5.1 million compared to income before income taxes of $10.4 million for the nine months ended August31, 2016 . Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Investees Equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees represents our proportionate share of the earnings and losses from our minority membership interests accounted for as equity method investments, including SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings, Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings. We own a 49% ownership interest in each of SG2 Holdings, North Star Holdings, Lost Hills Blackwell Holdings and Henrietta Holdings, and a 34% ownership interest in Stateline Holdings. Henrietta Holdings and Stateline Holdings were acquired subsequent to the third quarter of fiscal 2016. Net Income (loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests We apply the HLBV Method in allocating recorded net income (loss) to each tax equity investor based on the change during the reporting period of the amount of net assets of the entity to which each tax equity investor would be entitled to under 42 the governing contractual arrangements in a liquidation scenario. If the redemption value of our redeemable noncontrolling interests exceeds their carrying value after attribution of income (loss) under the HLBV Method in any period, we will make an additional attribution of income to our redeemable noncontrolling interests such that their carrying value will at least equal the redemption value. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for the three and nine months ended August31, 2017 included a net loss of $1.6 million and $17.1 million , respectively, attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, partially offset by net income of $22.8 million and $35.9 million , respectively, attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests for the three and nine months ended August31, 2016 included a net loss of $24.3 million and $112.1 million, respectively, attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests related to our tax equity financing facilities with third-party investors under which the parties invest in entities that hold the solar power systems, offset by net income of $32.6 million and $97.9 million, respectively, attributable to our Sponsors as a result of their economic ownership in OpCo. Cash Flows Nine Months Ended August31, 2017 Compared to Nine Months Ended August31, 2016 A summary of the sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended August31, 2017 was $64.3 million and was primarily the result of: (i) net income of $30.5 million ; (ii) $32.9 million in cash distributions received from equity method investees that were classified in operating activities as returns on the investments; (iii) adjustment for non-cash charges of $30.0 million , including $21.2 million depreciation of operating lease assets and solar power systems and amortization of intangible assets, $7.9 million deferred income taxes, $0.7 million amortization of debt issuance costs, and $0.2 million share-based compensation; (iv) $6.2 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets; (v) $0.7 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, and (vi) $0.5 million decrease in deferred revenue on operating leases. These inflows were partially offset by: (i) $2.8 million increase in accounts receivable and financing receivable, net; and (ii) adjustments for non-cash income of $33.6 million , including $33.3 million equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees and $0.3 million mark-to-market gain on interest rate swaps. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 was $37.8 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $15.1 million in cash distributions received from equity method investees that were classified in operating activities as returns on the investments; (ii) net income of $8.7 million; (iii) adjustments for non-cash charges of $32.5 million, including $16.3 million depreciation of operating lease assets and solar power systems, $15.3 million deferred income taxes expense, $0.2 million share-based compensation, $0.4 million amortization of debt issuance costs, and $0.3 million bad debt expense related to residential lease customers; (iv) $0.8 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities; and (v) $0.5 million increase in deferred revenue from the Maryland Solar Project. These inflows were partially offset by: (i) adjustments for non-cash income of $14.0 million, including $13.5 million equity in earnings of unconsolidated investees and $0.5 million mark-to-market gain on interest rate swaps; (ii) $4.3 million increase in accounts receivable and short-term financing receivables, net; and (iii) $1.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended August31, 2017 was $299.9 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $313.2 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of the Stateline Project, the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(a) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(b) Assets, the Kern Phase 2(c) Assets, and the Macy's Maryland Project; (ii) capital 43 expenditures of $0.3 million , which were due to the purchases of property and equipment associated with the Kingbird Project. These outflows were offset by $13.6 million in distributions from unconsolidated investees classified in investing activities as returns of the investments. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 was $122.3 million and was primarily the result of $124.3 million net cash paid for the acquisitions of the Kern Phase 1(a) Assets, the Kingbird Project, the Hooper Project and the Macy's Maryland Project. These outflows were partially offset by $0.6 million of cash distributions from unconsolidated investees classified in investing activities as returns of the investments, and $1.4 million of net cash provided by purchases of property and equipment, which primarily consists of collections of test energy billings. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended August31, 2017 was $231.8 million due to: (i) a $250.0 million draw down under the incremental term loan facility in connection with the Stateline Acquisition; (ii) a $34.0 million draw down under the revolving credit facility; and (iii) $24.4 million of cash contributions from tax equity investors. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $39.3 million of cash distributions to our Sponsors as OpCo's common and subordinated unitholders; (ii) $21.6 million of cash distributions to our Class A shareholders; (iii) $6.8 million of cash distributions to tax equity investors; (iv) $7.0 million in repayments of outstanding amounts under our revolving credit facility; and (v) the repayment of the $2.0 million Short-term Note to First Solar. Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended August 31, 2016 was $57.5 million and was primarily the result of: (i) $65.0 million proceeds from issuance of bank loans, net of issuance costs, including $40.0 million from the revolving credit facility and $25.0 million from the delayed draw term loan facility; (ii) $10.0 million in capital contributions from SunPower as an indemnity per the Amended and Restated Omnibus Agreement for a short-fall associated with reimbursable costs for the Quinto Project network upgrade; and (iii) $0.3 million of cash contributions from tax equity investors. These cash inflows were partially offset by: (i) $13.5 million of cash distributions to our Class A members; (ii) $4.1 million of cash distributions to tax equity investors; and (iii) $0.2 million of equity issuance costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity as of August31, 2017 was $65.5 million , consisting of $10.4 million cash on hand and $55.1 million of available capacity under our five-year revolving credit facility. Sources of Liquidity We expect our ongoing sources of liquidity to include cash on hand, cash generated from operations (excluding cash distributions to minority investors), distributions and dividends from the operations of our equity investments, borrowings under new and existing financing arrangements (the aggregate amount of which may be lower because of our reduced ownership in projects subject to tax equity financing) and the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. We may also incur debt at the project level, which may be limited by the rights of our tax equity investors and current debt covenants. We expect that these sources of funds will be adequate to provide for our short-term and long-term liquidity needs. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and other capital requirements, including capital expenditures, as well as make acquisitions, will depend on our future operating performance which, in turn, will be subject to general economic, financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, many of which are beyond our control. We believe that we will have sufficient borrowings available under our revolving credit facility, liquid assets and cash flows from operations to meet our financial commitments, debt service obligations, contingencies and anticipated required capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, we have an active shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of additional equity securities as appropriate given market conditions. Term Loans, Delayed Draw Term Loan, Revolving Credit Facility and Stateline Promissory Note On June 5, 2015, OpCo entered into a $525.0 million credit facility, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan facility, a $25.0 million delayed draw term loan facility and a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. On April 6, 2016, the parties thereto amended the credit facility (i) to provide for the lenders' consent to the Omnibus Agreement, (ii) to expand OpCo's ability to further amend the Omnibus Agreement without lender consent in the future, subject to certain conditions, (iii) to permit certain customary restrictions on transfers of the equity interests of certain Project Entities, which are jointly owned, indirectly, by OpCo and SunPower, (iv) to supplement the Pledge and Security Agreement between the parties in light of the foregoing amendment, and (v) to make certain clarifying modifications to definitions and cross references. On September 30, 44 2016, OpCo entered into the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit facility, pursuant to which OpCo obtained a new $250.0 million incremental term loan facility, increasing the maximum borrowing capacity under the credit facility to $775.0 million . Loans outstanding under the credit facility bear interest at either (i) a base rate, which is the highest of (x) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (y) the administrative agent's prime rate and (z) one-month LIBOR, in each case, plus an applicable margin; or (ii) one-, two-, three- or six-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin. There will be no principal amortization over the term of the credit facility. The unused portion of the revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan facility is subject to a commitment fee of 0.30% per annum. OpCo may prepay the borrowings under the term loan facility and the delayed draw term loan facility at any time. In general, the credit facility contains representations, warranties, covenants (including financial covenants) and defaults that are customary for this type of financing; provided, however, that OpCo is permitted to pay distributions to its unitholders and we are permitted to pay distributions to our shareholders out of available cash so long as no default or event of default under the credit facility has occurred or is continuing at the time of such distribution, or would result therefrom, and OpCo is otherwise in compliance, on a pro forma basis, with the facility's covenants requiring it to maintain its debt to cash flow ratio and debt service coverage ratio (as such financial ratios are described below). Among other things, events of defaults that could result in restrictions on our ability to make such distributions include certain failures to make payments when due under the credit facility, certain defaults under other agreements, breaches of certain covenants and representations under the credit facility, commencement of certain insolvency proceedings, the existence of certain judgments or attachments, certain orders of dissolution of loan parties, certain events relating to employee benefit plans, the occurrence of a change of control (as more fully described below), certain events relating to the effectiveness and validity of the guaranties and collateral documents in support of the credit facility (as described below) and other credit documents and, under certain circumstances, the termination of the Omnibus Agreement or the Quinto PPA. In the future, we may increase our debt to fund our operations or future acquisitions. OpCo's credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain the following financial ratios: (i) a debt to cash flow ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not more than (a) 6.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarters ending November 30, 2016 through November 30, 2017, and (b) 5.50 to 1.00 for each fiscal quarter ending thereafter; and (ii) a debt service coverage ratio (as more fully defined in the credit facility) of not less than 1.75 to 1.00. In addition, an event of default occurs under the credit facility upon a change of control. The credit facility defines a change of control as occurring when, among other things, (i) the Sponsors (or either of them) cease to direct the management, directly or indirectly, of us or OpCo, or (ii) the Sponsors collectively cease to own 35% of the economic interest in OpCo. On April 5, 2017, First Solar notified our general partner's board of directors of its intention to explore alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership.Following such announcement, SunPower also notified our general partner's board of directors that it is exploring alternatives related to its interests in the Partnership. Although our Sponsors have publicly announced their current intentions, there is no assurance that either or both of our Sponsors will pursue or effect any particular alternative. In addition, the credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants and certain restrictions that will limit the Partnership's, OpCo's and certain of the Partnership's and its domestic subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional debt and to make distributions on or redeem or repurchase OpCo common units. The Joinder Agreement amended OpCo's credit facility to permit OpCo to incur up to $50.0 million in subordinated indebtedness from First Solar or its affiliate to pay a portion of the purchase price for the Stateline Project. As of August31, 2017 , the Partnership was in compliance with its debt covenants. OpCo's credit facility is collateralized by a pledge over the equity of OpCo and certain of its subsidiaries. The Partnership and each of OpCo's subsidiaries, other than certain non-guarantor subsidiaries, have guaranteed the obligations of OpCo under the credit facility. On December 1, 2016, in connection with the Stateline Acquisition, OpCo issued the Stateline Promissory Note to First Solar in the principal amount of $50.0 million . The Stateline Promissory Note is unsecured and matures on the date that is six months after the maturity date under OpCo's credit facility. Interest will accrue at a rate of four percent 4.00% per annum, except it will accrue at a rate of six percent 6.00% per annum (i) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a specified event of default and (ii) in respect of amounts accrued as payments-in-kind pursuant to the terms of the note. As of August31, 2017 , OpCo had outstanding borrowings of $300.0 million under the term loan facility, $250.0 million under the incremental term loan facility, $25.0 million under the delayed draw term loan facility, $90.0 million under the revolving credit facility, approximately $54.9 million of letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility, and $50.0 million Stateline Promissory Note. The remaining portion of the revolving credit facility is undrawn as of August31, 2017 . 45 ATM Program On January 30, 2017, the Partnership established the ATM Program under which the Partnership may sell its Class A shares from time to time through the ATM Agents up to an aggregate sales price of $125.0 million. The Partnership may also sell its Class A shares to any ATM Agent, as principal for its own account, at a price agreed upon at the time of the sale.The Partnership will use the net proceeds from sales under the ATM Program to purchase a number of common units in OpCo equal to the number of Class A shares issued under the ATM Program. OpCo may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, repaying borrowings under the Stateline Promissory Note and OpCo's credit facilities, and funding working capital or acquisitions. No shares were issued under the ATM Program during the nine months ended August31, 2017 . Tax Equity Our projects are, and our future acquisitions are expected to be, subject to two types of tax equity financing. In the first type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. To the extent we want to incur project-level debt at a project in which we co-invest with a tax equity investor, we may be required to obtain the tax equity investor's consent prior to such incurrence. In addition, the amount of debt that could be incurred by an entity in which we have a tax equity co-investor may be further constrained because even if the tax equity investor consents to the incurrence of the debt at the entity or project level, the tax equity investor may not agree to pledge its interest in the project which could reduce the amount that can be borrowed and raise the cost of borrowing by the entity. In the second type of tax equity financing, the governing agreements provide, and the governing agreements of our future acquisitions may provide, our tax equity investors with a majority interest in the project. In such agreements, we will only have a number of minority investor protection rights with respect to the applicable asset or assets that have been financed with tax equity, including restricting the ability of the entity that owns such asset or assets to incur debt. In most cases, since we are not the majority owner, we will not be able to direct the actions of the entity that owns such asset. As such, we may not be able to incur debt at the entity or project level, without the consent of the majority owner. Uses of Liquidity Our principal requirements for liquidity and capital resources, other than for operating our business, can generally be categorized into the following: (i) debt service obligations; (ii) funding acquisitions, if any; and (iii) cash distributions to shareholders. Generally, once COD is reached, solar power generation assets do not require significant capital expenditures to maintain operating performance. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of August31, 2017 : (1) Land use commitments primarily relate to a non-cancellable operating lease for the Quinto Project and two operating leases for the Kingbird Project, and are equal to the minimum lease and easement payments to landowners for the right to use the land upon which solar power systems are located. 46 (2) Includes $300.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the term loan facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015 (in connection with our IPO) which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the term loan facility will become due. From September 1, 2017 to August 31, 2018, which is the remaining term of the interest rate swaps, the interest payments for the notional amount of $250.0 million and $40.0 million are calculated based on the fixed swap rate of 0.85% plus the 2% margin and 1.16% plus the 2% margin, respectively. The interest payments for the remaining $10.0 million notional amount through August 31, 2018, and the full amount of $300.0 million outstanding thereafter through the maturity date, are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 3.24% per annum effective as of August31, 2017 . (3) Includes $250.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the incremental term loan facility entered into by OpCo on September 30, 2016 (in connection with the Joinder Agreement under its existing senior secured credit facility) which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the incremental term loan facility will become due. The interest payments for the $250.0 million notional amount through the maturity date are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 3.24% per annum effective as of August31, 2017 . (4) Includes $25.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and $90.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility entered into by OpCo on June 5, 2015, which will mature on or about June 5, 2020, at which point all amounts outstanding under the delayed draw term loan facility and the revolving credit facility will become due. The interest payments for the $115.0 million notional amount through the maturity date are estimated based on the floating cash interest rate of approximately 3.24% per annum effective as of August31, 2017 . (5) Includes $50.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Stateline Promissory Note by OpCo to First Solar on December 1, 2016 which will mature on December 5, 2020. Interest payments are estimated based on a rate of 4.00% per annum. Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements As of August31, 2017 , we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements.