Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amounts and par value) (Unaudited) (1) The condensed consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2015 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss (in thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Accuray Incorporated Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business Accuray Incorporated (together with its subsidiaries, the Company or Accuray ) is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of business in Sunnyvale, California. The Company designs, develops and sells advanced radiosurgery and radiation therapy systems for the treatment of tumors throughout the body. The Company has offices in the United States, Switzerland, China and Japan and conducts its business worldwide. Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), pursuant to the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ).Certain information and note disclosures have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rulesand regulations.The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, which include only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. The results for the three and six months ended December31, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending June30, 2016, for any other future interim period or future year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company s audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the year ended June30, 2015 included in the Company s Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on August28, 2015. The Company s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to those audited consolidated financial statements and there have been no material changes to such policies. Recent Accounting Standard Update Not Yet Effective In May2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09), to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. On July9, 2015, FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective period for ASU 2014-09. The standard will be effective for the Company for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, but entities will be permitted to early adopt the standard as of the original effective date, which would be the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for the Company. The Company may adopt either of two methods: (i)retrospective to each prior reporting period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within ASU 2014-09; or (ii)retrospective with the cumulative effect of initially applying ASU 2014-09 recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures as defined per ASU 2014-09. The Company has not yet selected a transition method, has not yet determined whether it will select early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of pending adoption of ASU 2014-09 on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Use of Estimates The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements. Key estimates and assumptions made by the Company relate to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts, loss contingencies and corporate bonus expenses. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. 6 Concentration of Credit and Other Risks The Company s cash, cash equivalents and investments are deposited with several major financial institutions. At times, deposits in these institutions exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and does not believe that it is exposed to any significant risk of loss on these balances. For the three months ended December31, 2015 and 2014, there were no customers that represented 10% or more of total net revenue. For the six months ended December31, 2015, there was one customer that represented 11% of total net revenue. For the six months ended December31, 2014, there were no customers that represented 10% or more of total net revenue. No customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company s total accounts receivable as of December31, 2015. One customer accounted for 18% of the Company s total accounts receivable as of June30, 2015. Accounts receivable are typically not collateralized. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and maintains reserves for potential credit losses. Accounts receivable are deemed past due in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement. Accounts are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts once collection efforts are unsuccessful. Single source suppliers presently provide the Company with several components. In most cases, if a supplier was unable to deliver these components, the Company believes that it would be able to find other sources for these components subject to any regulatory qualifications, if required. Revenue Recognition The Company earns revenue from the sale of products and related services. The Company records its revenues net of any value added or sales tax. For arrangements with multiple elements, the Company allocates arrangement fees to products and services based upon Vendor Specific Objective Evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value of the respective elements, Third-Party Evidence ( TPE ), or Best Estimate of Selling Price ( BESP ), using the relative selling price method. Product and Service Revenue The majority of product revenue is generated from sales of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems. If the Company is responsible for installation, the Company recognizes revenue after installation and acceptance of the system. Otherwise, revenue is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. The Company offers its systems with post-contract customer support ( PCS ) contracts, installation services, training and professional services. PCS contracts provide planned and corrective maintenance services, software updates, bug fixes, as well as call-center support. Service revenue is generated primarily from PCS (warranty period services and post warranty services), installation services, training, parts and upgrades that are sold under service contracts and professional services. PCS revenue is deferred and recognized over the service period. Installation service revenue is recognized concurrent with system revenue. Training and professional service revenues that are not deemed essential to the functionality of the systems are recognized as such services are performed. Costs associated with service revenue are expensed when incurred, except when those costs are related to parts or system upgrades where revenue recognition has been deferred. In those cases, the costs are deferred and are recognized over the period of revenue recognition. Net Loss Per Common Share Basic and diluted net loss per share is computed by dividing net loss attributable to stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. 7 A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net loss per share follows (in thousands): The potentially dilutive shares of the Company s common stock resulting from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units (RSU), Market Stock Units (MSU) and Performance Stock Units (PSU), and the purchase of shares under the Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP), as determined under the treasury stock method, are excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Additionally, the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August1, 2016 (the 3.75% Convertible Notes ), the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February1, 2018 (the 3.50% Convertible Notes ) and the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ) due February1, 2018 (together, the Convertible Notes ) are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share only if their inclusion is dilutive. For the three months ended December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, the potentially dilutive shares under the Convertible Notes were excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. The following table sets forth all potentially dilutive securities excluded from the computation in the table above because their effect would have been anti-dilutive (in thousands): Outstanding Convertible Notes Diluted Share Impact The 3.75% Convertible Notes and 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes have an optional physical (share), cash or combination settlement feature and contain certain conditional conversion features. Due to the optional cash settlement feature and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash, the conversion shares underlying the outstanding principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes and the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, totaling approximately 10.6million shares and 13.2million shares, respectively, were not included in the potentially diluted share count table above. The Company s average stock price did not exceed the conversion price of the 3.75% Convertible Notes as of December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The 2.8 and 3.9million potentially dilutive shares of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes as of December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, included in the table above represent the premium over the principal amount due to the higher average share price above the conversion price. The number of premium shares included in the Company s diluted share count will vary with fluctuations in the Company s share price. Higher actual share prices result in a greater number of premium shares. Segment Information The Company has determined that it operates in only one segment, as it only reports profit and loss information on an aggregate basis to its chief operating decision maker. Revenue by geographic region is based on the shipping addresses of the Company s customers. The following summarizes revenue by geographic region (in thousands): 8 Information regarding geographic areas in which the Company has long lived tangible assets is as follows (in thousands): 2. Balance Sheet Components Financing receivables A financing receivable is a contractual right to receive money, on demand or on fixed or determinable dates, that is recognized as an asset in the Company s balance sheet. The Company s financing receivables, consisting of its accounts receivable with contractual maturities of more than one year, totaled $8.1million and $1.6million at December31, 2015 and June30, 2015, respectively, and are included in Other Assets in the consolidated balance sheets. There was no balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts related to such financing receivables as of December31, 2015 and June30, 2015, respectively, as revenue is recognized on a cash basis for these receivables. Inventories Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): Property and equipment, net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (inthousands): Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three and six months ended December31, 2015 was $2.5 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three and six months ended December31, 2014 was $3.0 million and $6.0 million, respectively . 9 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill Activity related to goodwill consisted of the following (in thousands): In the second quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that there was no impairment to goodwill. The Company will continue to monitor its recorded goodwill for indicators of impairment. Intangible Assets The Company s unamortized intangible assets associated with completed acquisitions at December31, 2015 and June30, 2015 are as follows (in thousands): The Company did not identify any triggering events that would indicate potential impairment of its definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets as of December31, 2015 and June30, 2015. Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the three and six months ended December31, 2015 was $2.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the three and six months ended December31, 2014 was $2.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively. The estimated future amortization expense of purchased intangible assets as of December31, 2015 is as follows (in thousands): 4. Financial Instruments The Company considers all highly liquid investments held at major banks, certificates of deposit and other securities with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company classifies all of its investments as available-for-sale at the time of purchase because it is management s intent that these investments are available for current operations and includes these investments on its balance sheet as short-term investments. Investments with original maturities longer than three months include commercial paper, U.S. agency securities, non-U.S. government securities and investment-grade corporate debt securities. Investments classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair market value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a 10 component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recorded based on specific identification of each security s cost basis. The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy contains three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level1 Unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for the identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. Level2 Other observable inputs available at the measurement date, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly, including: Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in non-active markets; Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; and Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by other observable market data. Level3 Unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated by observable market data and require the use of significant management judgment. These values are generally determined using pricing models for which the assumptions utilize management s estimates of market participant assumptions. The following tables summarize the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by significant investment category for cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (in thousands): 11 The Company s Level2 investments in the table above are classified as Level2 items because quoted prices in an active market are not readily accessible for those specific financial assets, or the Company may have relied on alternative pricing methods that do not rely exclusively on quoted prices to determine the fair value of the investments. The Company had investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of December31, 2015. The Company determined that (i)it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii)it is not likely that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company reviews its investments quarterly to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment. As of December31, 2015, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire carrying value of such investments and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the six months ended December31, 2015. Contractual maturities of available-for-sale securities at December31, 2015 were as follows (inthousands): The following table summarizes the carrying values and estimated fair values of our short-term and long-term debt (in thousands): The short-term and long-term debt is measured on a non-recurring basis using Level 2 inputs based upon observable inputs of the Company s underlying stock price and the time value of the conversion option, since an observable quoted price of the Convertible Notes is not readily available. 5. Commitments and Contingencies The Company s contractual obligations were presented in the Annual Report on Form10-K for the previous annual reporting period ended June30, 2015. There have been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three months ended December31, 2015. 12 Litigation From time to time, the Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company records a provision for a loss when it believes that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Currently, management believes the Company does not have any probable and estimable losses related to any current legal proceedings and claims. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, except as described in the matters below, management does not believe that an adverse determination with respect to any of these claims would individually or in the aggregate materially and adversely affect the Company s financial condition or operating results. For certain legal proceedings, management believes that there is a reasonable possibility that material losses may be incurred; however, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a range of reasonably possible losses with respect to these matters. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Company s control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, the Company could incur significant charges related to legal matters that could have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Rotary Systems On April28, 2011, a former supplier to TomoTherapy, Rotary Systems Incorporated ( Rotary Systems ), filed suit in Minnesota state court, Tenth Judicial District, Anoka County, against TomoTherapy alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, as well as several other counts alleging various theories of injury. Rotary Systems alleges TomoTherapy misappropriated Rotary Systems trade secrets pertaining to a component previously purchased from Rotary Systems, which TomoTherapy now purchases from a different supplier. The suit alleges TomoTherapy improperly supplied the alleged trade secrets to its present supplier, Dynamic Sealing TechnologiesInc. (also a named defendant in the suit). Rotary Systems has made an unspecified claim for damages of greater than $50,000. TomoTherapy moved to dismiss the case and, on August29, 2011, the court granted the motion to dismiss with respect to all counts other than the count alleging misappropriation of trade secrets. On May21, 2012, the court gave Rotary Systems sixty days to identify the alleged trade secrets with specificity or face dismissal of its claim with prejudice. The court held a hearing on September20, 2012 to review Rotary Systems amended complaint. TomoTherapy filed a motion for summary judgment on the trade secret claim, the court ruled in favor of TomoTherapy on December5, 2013, and Rotary Systems appealed. On December22, 2014, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the district court s dismissal of Rotary Systems trade secrets claim and remanded it to the district court but affirmed the dismissal of Rotary Systems other claims. In late October2015, a final scheduling order was confirmed for the remanded claims and the parties are currently in the process of conducting discovery. Cowealth Medical On February27, 2014, Cowealth Medical HoldingCo.,Ltd. ( Cowealth ), Accuray s former distributor in China, submitted a request for binding arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerce International Court of Arbitration ( ICC ) alleging, among other matters, that Accuray breached its distributor agreement with Cowealth by wrongfully terminating Cowealth as its distributor and misappropriated certain of Cowealth s confidential information. Cowealth was seeking damages of approximately $170.0 million and injunctive relief. Accuray filed counterclaims for damages of approximately $35.0 million. Accuray s answer and counterclaim were submitted to the ICC on May12, 2014, and Cowealth served its reply on June27, 2014. A hearing was held in Hong Kong between January26, 2015 and February6, 2015. The parties filed closing submissions and reply closing submissions in March2015. On October29, 2015, the ICC ruled that Accuray was liable for certain damages and awarded Cowealth approximately $3.4 million. On November 27, 2015, Cowealth applied for a correction to the award to revise the amount of damages upwards to approximately $5.5 million. On January 21, 2016, the arbitrator granted Cowealth s application for a correction on the grounds that the original award amount was a clerical error on the part of the arbitrator. Interest on the final award amount will accrue at a rate of 5% per annum starting 30 days after the date the corrected award was issued until payment. Accordingly, management recorded a charge of $3.4 million for the first fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2015, and an additional $2.1 million for the second fiscal quarter ending December 30, 2015. The parties filed cost submissions and reply cost submissions in December 2015. The ICC will subsequently issue a separate ruling as to legal costs and associated expenses; however, management does not believe the likelihood of an award of legal fees to Cowealth is probable or estimable as of December 31, 2015, so no additional amount has been recorded. Prior to the ruling of the ICC, no accrual was established in the Company s consolidated financial statements because management did not believe the likelihood of an award of damages to Cowealth was probable or estimable. In addition, the Company won several of its counterclaims including the right to be assigned the existing service contracts between Cowealth and Accuray customers, transfer to Accuray any regulatory clearances, licenses or permits obtained and held for the purposes of selling the CyberKnife System in China and deliver any consigned parts in their possession. Software License Indemnity Under the terms of the Company s software license agreements with its customers, the Company agrees that in the event the software sold infringes upon any patent, copyright, trademark, or any other proprietary right of a third-party, it will indemnify its 13 customer licensees against any loss, expense, or liability from any damages that may be awarded against its customer. The Company includes this infringement indemnification in all of its software license agreements and selected managed services arrangements. In the event the customer cannot use the software or service due to infringement and the Company cannot obtain the right to use, replace or modify the license or service in a commercially feasible manner so that it no longer infringes, then the Company may terminate the license and provide the customer a refund of the fees paid by the customer for the infringing license or service. The Company has not recorded any liability associated with this indemnification, as it is not aware of any pending or threatened actions that represent probable losses as of December31, 2015. 6. Share-Based Compensation The following table summarizes the share-based compensation charges included in the Company s condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss (in thousands): 7. Debt 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August2016 On August1, 2011, the Company issued the 3.75% Convertible Notes to certain qualified institutional buyers, or QIBs. The 3.75% Convertible Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), or Rule144A. The net proceeds from the $100million offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $96.1million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission (which are recorded in Other Assets) are both being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.75% Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.75% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, beginning on February1, 2012. The 3.75% Convertible Notes will mature on August1, 2016, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. A portion of these notes were redeemed in January2016, as noted in Note 9 below. The 3.75% Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.75% Convertible Notes at any time on or after May1, 2016 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to May1, 2016, holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.75% Convertible Notes only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2011, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Notes for each trading day of that Note Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; (3)if the Company calls any or all of the 3.75% Convertible Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the redemption date; or (4)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 33rdbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate is 105.5548 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $9.47 per share of the Company s common stock). The conversion rate, and thus the conversion price, are subject to adjustment as further described below. 14 Holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes who convert their 3.75% Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.75% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. Prior to the maturity date, the Company may redeem for cash all or a portion of the 3.75% Convertible Notes if the closing sale price of its common stock exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price (the initial conversion price is approximately $9.47 per share of common stock) of such 3.75% Convertible Notes for at least 20 trading days during any consecutive 30trading-day period (including the last trading day of such period). In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.75% Convertible Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.75% Convertible Notes was $75.9million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 10%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $24.1million. A portion of the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the offering costs totaling $0.9million was allocated to the equity conversion component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes using the effective interest method over five years. A portion of these notes were repurchased in January2016, please refer to Note 9 below. 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 In February2013, the Company issued $115.0million aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% Convertible Notes to certain QIBs. The 3.50% Convertible Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $110.5million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission (which are recorded in Other Assets) are both being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.50% Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, which began on August1, 2013. The 3.50% Convertible Notes will mature on February1, 2018, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. In April2014, through a series of transactions, the Company refinanced approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the Company s new 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ). The 3.50% Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes at any time until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. The 3.50% Convertible Notes are convertible, as described below into common stock of the Company at an initial conversion rate equal to 187.6877 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes who convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with guidance in ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC815-15, Embedded Derivatives, the Company determined that the embedded conversion components of the 3.50% Convertible Note do not require bifurcation and separate accounting. The remaining $44.7million principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Note has been recorded in Long-term Debt on the consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2015. 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 On April17, 2014, the Company entered into note exchange agreements with certain holders (the Participating Holders ) of the 3.50% Convertible Notes to refinance approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes 15 with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. Pursuant to the note exchange agreements, the Company also paid the Participating Holders an aggregate of approximately $0.4million in cash in connection with such transactions. The principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes refinanced for each $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $1,000 and the amount in cash paid per $1,000 principal amount of such 3.50% Convertible Notes delivered was determined in individual negotiations between the Company and each Participating Holder. The SeriesA Convertible Notes have the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the 3.50% Convertible Notes, except that the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at the Company s option. The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their Securities at any time on or after November1, 2017 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to November1, 2017, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their Securities only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2014, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes for each trading day of that Securities Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; or (3)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 17thbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate is 187.6877 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of the Company s common stock). The conversion rate, and thus the conversion price, are subject to adjustment as further described below. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes who convert their Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $62.5million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 7%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $7.9million. In addition, the portion of the cash amount paid to the Participating Holders totaling $0.4 million was allocated to the debt discount with the remaining $47,000 to the equity component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes using the effective interest method through the maturity in February2018. The following table presents the carrying values of all Convertible Notes as of December31, 2015 (in thousands): 16 A summary of interest expense on the Convertible Notes is as follows (in thousands): 8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of net loss, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments, changes in foreign currency exchange rate translation and net changes related to defined benefit pension plan. These components are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of stockholders equity. The foreign currency translation adjustment results from those subsidiaries not using the United States dollar as their functional currency since the majority of their economic activities are primarily denominated in their applicable local currency. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities related to these operations are translated at the current exchange rates at the end of each period. The resulting cumulative translation adjustments are recorded directly to the accumulated other comprehensive loss account in stockholders equity. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period. The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the equity section of the balance sheets are as follows (in thousands): 9. Subsequent Events New Debt Financing On January11, 2016, the Company closed a $70.0 million straight debt financing agreement with Cerberus Business Finance, LLC, an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management, L.P (the Financing Agreement ). The net proceeds of the loan are required to be used, in addition to $30.0 million of cash funded by the Company, to retire $100.0 million of convertible notes at the earlier of August2016 or when otherwise redeemed. This financing consists of a $70.0 million first lien senior secured term loan with a 700 basis point margin and 1 percent LIBOR floor. The loan will be amortized at an effective rate of 5% annually with final payment due in 5 years and is subject to certain maintenance-based covenants. The covenants in the Financing Agreement include: Secured leverage defines the maximum amount of secured leverage that can be on the Company s books at a given point in time calculated by the total secured debt divided by the last twelve months adjusted EBITDA; Total leverage defines the maximum amount of total leverage that can be on the Company s books at a given point in time calculated by the total debt divided by the last twelve months adjusted EBITDA; Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio designed to ensure that the Company s cash fixed charges are met with adequate free cash flow based on a minimum coverage ratio to be set and maintained; Minimum EBITDA defines the minimum amount of adjusted EBITDA the Company must maintain and generate; Maximum CapEx defines how much cash the Company can use annually to pursue capital projects, purchase PP&amp;E and other related activities during the life of the loan; and Affirmative and negative covenants defining reporting requirements, subsidiary asset restrictions, dividend distribution and repayment requirements among other general requirements. 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes partial Repurchase In January2016, the Company repurchased approximately $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of its 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August2016 for $66.6 million in cash. As $63.4 million of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were settled in cash, a total of 6.7 million potentially dilutive shares are no longer potentially outstanding from an EPS perspective, these shares were already noted in Note 1 above as being excluded due to being anti-dilutive in the current fiscal quarter of 2016. Following such transactions, approximately $44.7 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes, approximately $36.6 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes and approximately $70.3 million of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes remained outstanding. The Company expects to record a charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 of approximately $1.0 million associated with the repurchase of the notes. Cowealth Medical Litigation In Februaryof 2014, Cowealth submitted a request for binding arbitration with the ICC alleging, among other matters, that Accuray breached its distributor agreement with Cowealth by wrongfully terminating Cowealth as its distributor and misappropriated certain of Cowealth s confidential information. Cowealth was seeking damages of approximately $170.0 million and injunctive relief. On October29, 2015, the ICC ruled that Accuray was liable for certain damages and awarded Cowealth approximately $3.4 million, while denying Cowealth s claim for injunctive relief. On November27, 2015, Cowealth applied for a correction to the award dated October29, 2015, to revise the amount of damages upwards to approximately $5.5 million from the previously issued award of $3.4 million. On January21, 2016, the arbitrator granted Cowealth s application for a correction on the grounds that the original award amount was a clerical error on the part of the arbitrator. As the legal matter arose before December31, 2015, management recorded the additional charge of $2.1 million into accrued liabilities and general and administrative expenses. After the initial award assessment of $3.4 million in October2015, no additional accrual had been recorded in the Company s consolidated financial statements because management did not believe the likelihood of an additional award of damages to Cowealth was probable or estimable. Under the terms of the ICC Rules of Arbitration all awards are binding and cannot be appealed by either party. Further issues relating to costs remain to be finalized in the arbitration, none of which will affect the binding outcome under the interim and corrected award. The ICC will subsequently issue a separate ruling as to legal costs and associated expenses; however, management does not believe the likelihood of an award of legal fees to Cowealth is probable or estimable as of the date of the financials, so no additional amount has been recorded. 17 Item 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition as of December31, 2015 and results of operations for the three and six months ended December31, 2015 and 2014 should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.Statements made in this Form10-Q report that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements in this report relate, but are not limited, to: our future results of operations and financial position, including the sufficiency of cash resources and expected cash flows to fund future operations, including the next 12 months; our backlog and expectations regarding age-outs, cancellations of contracts and foreign currency impacts, the effects of our process improvements on age-outs, backlog and revenue; expected uses of cash during fiscal 2016; the anticipated drivers of our future capital requirements; the success of the MLC for the CyberKnife Systems, its impact on our business; our expectations regarding the factors that will impact long-term success, sales, competitive positioning and long-term success for our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; our belief that TomoTherapy Systems offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market; the anticipated risks associated with our foreign operations and fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies as well as our ability to mitigate such risks; the sufficiency of our cash, cash flow equivalents and investments to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures and our business strategy, plans and objectives.Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, may, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations, including those risks discussed in this quarterly report, in particular under the heading Risk Factors in PartII,Item 1A as well as the risks detailed in PartI,Item 1A of the Company s annual report on Form10-K for fiscal year 2015, in PartII,Item 1A of the Company s quarterly report on Form10-Q for the quarter ended September30, 2015 and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made and are based on information available to the Company at the time those statements are made and/or management s good faith belief as of that time with respect to future events. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual performance or results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. In this report, Accuray, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Accuray Incorporated and its subsidiaries. 18 Overview Products and Markets We are a radiation oncology company that develops, manufactures, sells and supports precise, innovative treatment solutions which set the standard of care, with the aim of helping patients live longer, better lives. Our leading edge technologies, the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, are designed to deliver advanced radiation therapy including radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy, intensity modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation therapy and adaptive radiation therapy tailored to the specific needs of each patient. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complementary offerings serving separate patient populations treated by the same medical specialty, radiation oncology, with advanced capabilities that offer increased treatment flexibility to meet the needs of an expanding patient population. The CyberKnife Systems are robotic systems designed to deliver radiosurgery treatments to cancer tumors anywhere in the body. The CyberKnife Systems are the only dedicated, full-body robotic radiosurgery systems on the market. Radiosurgery is an alternative to traditional surgery for tumors and is performed on an outpatient basis in one to five treatment sessions. It enables the treatment of patients who otherwise would not be treated with radiation, who may not be good candidates for surgery, or who desire non-surgical treatments. The use of radiosurgery with CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors throughout the body has grown significantly in recent years, but currently only a small portion of the patients who develop tumors treatable with CyberKnife Systems are treated with these systems. A determination of when it may or may not be appropriate to use a CyberKnife System for treatment is at the discretion of the treating physician and depends on the specific patient. However, the CyberKnife Systems are generally not used to treat (1)very large tumors, which are considerably wider than the radiation beam that can be delivered by CyberKnife Systems, (2)diffuse wide-spread disease, as is often the case for late stage cancers, because they are not localized (though CyberKnife Systems might be used to treat a focal area of the disease) and (3)systemic diseases, like leukemia and lymphoma, which are not localized to an organ, but rather involve cells throughout the body. The addition of the multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC, now makes it faster and more efficient to treat a wider range of tumor types with the CyberKnife M6, including larger tumors and those with multiple sites of disease. Our CyberKnife M6 SeriesSystems have the option of: fixed collimator, iris collimator and/or InCise MLC. The InCise MLC is designed specifically for the M6 Series. With the addition of the InCise MLC, clinicians can deliver the same precise radiosurgery treatments they have come to expect with the CyberKnife System, faster and for a wider range of tumor types. The InCise MLC was commercially launched in the third fiscal quarter of 2015. We believe the long term success of the CyberKnife Systems is dependent on a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our CyberKnife M6 Series Systems; Production and shipment of MLC that meets the standards that we, and our customers, expect in our products; Change in medical practice leading to utilization of stereotactic body radiosurgery more regularly as an alternative to surgery or other treatments; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the benefits of radiosurgery with the CyberKnife Systems; Continued evolution in clinical studies demonstrating the safety, efficacy and other benefits of using the CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors in various parts of the body; Continued advances in our technology that improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of the CyberKnife Systems; Receipt of regulatory approvals in various countries which is expected to improve access to radiosurgery with the CyberKnife Systems in such countries; Medical insurance reimbursement policies that cover CyberKnife System treatments; and Our ability to expand sales of CyberKnife Systems in countries throughout the world. The TomoTherapy Systems are advanced, fully integrated and versatile radiation therapy systems for the treatment of a wide range of cancer types. The TomoTherapy Systems are the only radiation therapy systems designed for image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IG-IMRT). The TomoTherapy H SeriesSystems come in configurations of TomoH TM , TomoHD TM and 19 TomoHDA TM . Based on a CT scanner platform, the systems provide continuous delivery of radiation from 360 degrees around the patient, or delivery from clinician-specified beam angles. These unique features, combined with daily 3D image guidance, enable physicians to delivery highly accurate, individualized dose distributions which precisely conform to the shape of the patient s tumor while minimizing dose to normal, healthy tissue, resulting in fewer side effects for patients. The TomoTherapy Systems are capable of treating all standard radiation therapy indications including breast, prostate, lung and head and neck cancers, in addition to complex treatments such as total marrow irradiation. Radiation therapy has been widely available and used in developed countries for decades, though many developing countries do not currently have a sufficient number of radiation therapy systems to adequately treat their domestic cancer patient populations. The number of radiation therapy systems in use and sold each year is currently many times larger than the number of radiosurgery systems. We believe the TomoTherapy Systems offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market. We believe our ability to capture more sales will be influenced by a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our TomoTherapy H Series Systems; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the benefits of radiation therapy using TomoTherapy Systems; Advances in our technology which improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of TomoTherapy Systems; Greater awareness among doctors of the now-established reliability of TomoTherapy Systems; and Our ability to expand sales of TomoTherapy Systems in countries throughout the world. Sale of Our Products Generating revenue from the sale of our systems is a lengthy process. Selling our systems, from first contact with a potential customer to a signed sales contract that meets our backlog criteria (as discussed below) varies significantly and generally spans six months to two years. The time from receipt of a signed contract to revenue recognition is governed generally by the time required by the customer to build, renovate or prepare the treatment room for installation of the system. In the United States, we primarily market directly to customers, including hospitals and stand-alone treatment facilities, through our sales organization and we also market to customers through sales agents and group purchasing organizations. Outside the United States, we market to customers directly and through distributors and some sales agents. In addition to our offices in the United States, we have sales and service offices in many countries in Europe, Japan and other countries in Asia, South America, and throughout the world. Backlog For orders that cover both products and services, only the portion of the order that is recognizable as product revenue is reported as backlog. The portion of the order that is recognized as service revenue (for example, Post Contract Customer Support (PCS), installation, training and professional services) is not included in reported backlog. Product backlog totaled $366.7million as of December31, 2015. In order for the product portion of a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System sales agreement to be counted as backlog, it must meet the following criteria: The contract is signed and properly executed by both the customer and us. A customer purchase order that is signed and incorporates the terms of our contract quote will be considered equivalent to a signed and executed contract; The contract is non-contingent - it either has cleared all its contingencies or contains no contingencies when signed; We have received a minimum deposit or a letter of credit; the sale is a direct channel sale to a government entity, or the product has shipped to a customer with credit sufficient to cover the minimum deposit; The specific end customer site has been identified by the customer in the written contract or written amendment; For orders in our Latin America region, unless the system has already shipped and collection is reasonably assured, we request supporting evidence that the end customer has commenced construction to place our products if a site does not already exist; and 20 Less than 2.5 years have passed since the contract met all the criteria above. Although our backlog includes only contractual agreements with our customers for the purchase of CyberKnife Systems, TomoTherapy Systems and related upgrades, due to factors outside of our control, we cannot provide assurance that we will convert backlog into recognized revenue. The amount of backlog recognized into revenue is primarily impacted by three items: cancellations, age-outs and foreign currency fluctuations. Orders could be cancelled for reasons including, without limitation, changes in customers needs or financial condition, changes in government or health insurance reimbursement policies, changes to regulatory requirements, or other reasons. In addition to cancellations, after 2.5 years, if we have not been able to recognize revenue on a contract, we remove the revenue associated with the contract from backlog and the order is considered aged out. Contracts may age-out for many reasons, including inability of the customer to pay, inability of the customer to adapt their facilities to accommodate our products in a timely manner, inability to timely obtain licenses necessary for customer facilities or operation of our equipment among other reasons for delays. Our backlog also includes amounts not denominated in U.S. Dollars and therefore fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar as compared to other currencies will impact backlog. Generally, strengthening in the U.S. Dollar will negatively impact backlog. Gross orders are defined as the sum of new orders recorded during the period adjusted for any revisions to existing orders during the period. Net product orders are defined as gross product orders less cancellations, age-outs and foreign exchange adjustments. Gross orders decreased by $5.2 million for the three months ended December31, 2015, as compared to the three months ended December31, 2014. This was a result of a decrease of $4.2 million in new system order volume added as the total number of system orders decreased from the same prior year period. The TomoTherapy System order volume decreased in this period partially offset by an increase in orders for the CyberKnife System fueled by the demand for the MLC, introduced in the third quarter of fiscal 2015. The remaining change was a result of fewer upgrade orders added in the three months ended December31, 2015 as compared to the same prior year period. Gross orders increased by $1.0 million for the six months ended December31, 2015, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2014. This was a result of increased CyberKnife System order volume as compared to the same prior year period, partially offset by a slight decrease in TomoTherapy System order volume. The increase in CyberKnife System orders is in line with of the increased demand for systems with the MLC, after its introduction in the third quarter of fiscal 2015. The majority of new orders added for CyberKnife Systems this period were for systems with the MLC. Net orders increased by $1.2 million for the three months ended December31, 2015, as compared to the three months ended December31, 2014, resulting from $3.9 million of fewer cancellations and more favorable currency impact causing an increase of $3.4 million compared to the same period in prior year. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in gross orders of $5.2 million and a slight increase in age-outs of $0.9 million as compared to the same period in the prior year. Age-outs were $19.1 million and $18.1 million in the three months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The age-outs of $19.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2015 resulted from the age-out of two additional systems as compared to the prior year period. Cancellations were $3.0 million and $6.9 million in the three months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. Currency impacts resulted in decreases in net orders of $2.3 million and $5.8 million in the three months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Net orders increased by $13.7 million for the six months ended December31, 2015, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2014, resulting from the increase in gross orders of $1.0 million plus an increase of $10.8 million due to foreign currency impacts and an increase of $3.5 million due to fewer cancellations. These increases were partially offset by higher age-outs resulting in a decrease of $1.6 million. 21 Age-outs were $37.5 million and $35.9 million in the six months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The age-outs of $37.5 million for the six months ended December 31, 2015 include $5.3 million of age-ins which represent orders that previously aged-out but have been taken to revenue in the current period. There were no age-ins included in the age-out number for the six months ended December 31, 2014. Cancellations were $6.0 million and $9.5 million in the six months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. Currency impacts resulted in decreases in net orders of $1.1 million and $11.9 million in the three months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Currently, we expect age-outs in the third quarter of this fiscal year to be in the range of $5.0 to $8.0 million as compared to $11.6 million in age-outs recorded during the three months ended March31, 2015. Between fiscal 2013 and 2015, we made changes to our order taking process, including increased oversight responsibility for and management of distributors and changes in timing as to when we enter some of our distributor orders into backlog. We believe these changes will improve the quality of backlog over time and reduce the level of age-outs. Results of Operations Three and six months ended December31, 2015 and 2014 (a) Expressed as a percentage of total net revenue, except for product and services gross profits which are expressed as a percentage of related product and services revenue. Net Revenue Product Net Revenue . Product net revenue increased by $8.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2015, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to an increase of $9.2 million in new system revenue due to an increase in the number of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems taken to revenue in the current period as compared to the prior year period. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $1.1 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. Product net revenue increased by $15.1 million for the six months ended December31, 2015, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2014, primarily due to an increase of $14.3 million in new system revenue due to an increase in the number of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems taken to revenue in the current period as compared to the prior year period. In addition, there was an increase of $0.8 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. 22 Services Net Revenue . Services net revenue increased by $2.6 million and $2.9 million for the three and six months ended December 31, 2015, respectively, as compared to the three and six months ended December 31, 2014, respectively. The increase in services net revenue was primarily attributable to an increase in training revenue due to the timing of the expiration of training points; however, we don t expect training revenue from expired points to be at this volume going forward. Percentage of net revenue by geographic region, based on the shipping location of our customers, is as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $57.9 million and $52.4 million for the three months ended December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and represented 53% and 53% of our net revenue during these periods, respectively. Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $102.3 million and $96.3 million for the six months ended December31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and represented 51% and 53% of our net revenue during these periods . Gross Profit Overall gross profit for the three months ended December31, 2015, increased $4.1 million, or 11%, as compared to the three months ended December31, 2014. Product gross profit increased 13%, or $2.6 million, primarily due to the increase in systems taken to revenue resulting in a higher profit margin due to increased leveraging of certain fixed costs. Service gross profit increased 8%, or $1.5 million, as a result of higher service revenues of $2.6 million driven by increased training revenue, partially offset by higher service costs of $1.1 million mainly due to higher part consumption as compared to prior fiscal year. Overall gross profit for the six months ended December31, 2015, increased $10.2 million, or 15%, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2014. Product gross profit increased 22%, or $7.2 million, primarily due to the increase in systems taken to revenue which resulted in a higher profit margin due to increased leverage of certain fixed costs. Service gross profit increased 9%, or $3.0 million, as a result of higher service revenues of $2.9 million driven by increased training revenue and lower service costs of $0.1 million. Research and Development Research and development expenses were $14.9 million in the three months ended December31, 2015 as compared to $13.9 million in the three months ended December31, 2014, which represents an increase of $1.0 million, or 7%. The increase was primarily due to a $1.5 million increase in consulting fees as a result of several new development projects that started in late fiscal 2015 and early fiscal 2016, partially offset by decreased compensation related expenses of $0.5 million due to lower headcount as compared with the prior fiscal period. Research and development expenses were $29.2 million in the six months ended December31, 2015 as compared to $28.1 million in the six months ended December31, 2014, which represents an increase of $1.1 million, or 4%. The increase was primarily due to a $3.1 million increase in consulting fees as a result of a development project that started in the third fiscal quarter of 2015. This increase was partially offset by decreased headcount related expenses of $1.5 million due to lower headcount as compared with prior period and a decrease in materials and supplies expenses of $0.5 million due to several large research and development projects completed prior to fiscal year 2016. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended December31, 2015 were $15.1 million as compared to $15.8 million for the three months ended December31, 2014, which represents a decrease of $0.7 million, or 4%. The decrease is primarily due to a $1.4 million reduction in headcount related expense resulting mainly from a $1.0 million reduction in commission expense due to several revenue deals with greater commission expense in the prior year as commission amount can vary from deal to deal and decreased salaries and benefits of $0.4 million due to lower headcount. In addition there were decreased travel expenses of $0.2 million also due to the lower headcount. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $0.9 million in marketing related 23 expenses driven mainly by the timing and location of the ASTRO tradeshow which took place in the second fiscal quarter of 2016 whereas it took place in the first fiscal quarter of 2015. Selling and marketing expenses for the six months ended December31, 2015 were $28.5 million as compared to $33.8 million for the six months ended December31, 2014, which represents a decrease of $5.3 million, or 16%. The decrease is primarily due to a $2.4 million reduction in headcount related expenses resulting mainly from lower commissions of $1.5 million due to several revenue deals with greater commission expense in the prior year and decreased salaries and benefits of $0.7 million related to lower headcount. Travel expenses also decreased by $0.6 million due to lower headcount in the sales and marketing departments. General marketing expenses also decreased by $0.9 million due to lower trade show expenses mainly for the ASTRO tradeshow due to location. In addition, consulting fees decreased by $0.8 million due to fewer marketing initiative projects as compared to the prior year. Lastly, there were reductions of $0.3 million in IT and facilities allocated expenses related to revised allocation rates and headcount in fiscal year 2016, and $0.3 million reduction in general sales and marketing expenses related to software maintenance, business promotion and subscriptions. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the three months ended December31, 2015 were $12.7 million as compared to $12.4 million for the three months ended December31, 2014, which represents an increase of $0.3 million, or 3%. This increase was mainly attributable to higher legal fees associated with the additional Cowealth settlement in the second fiscal quarter of 2016 as described in Notes 5 and 9 to the financial statements. General and administrative expenses for the six months ended December31, 2015 were $26.1 million as compared to $23.3 million for the six months ended December31, 2014, which represents an increase of $2.8 million, or 12%. The increase was related to higher legal fees of $2.7 million associated with the Cowealth settlement described in Note 5 to the financial statements. In addition, there were higher tax expenses of $0.3 million due to several tax write-offs in prior year as well as higher bad debt expense of $0.2 million resulting from bad debt recoveries in prior year; whereas, there were no similar offsetting tax write-offs or bad debt recoveries in the current fiscal year. These increases were partially offset by lower consulting expenses of $0.4 million due to fewer projects with general and administrative involvement. Other Expense, net Other expense, net for the three months ended December31, 2015 was $5.1 million as compared to $5.5 million for the three months ended December31, 2014, which represents a decrease of $0.4 million, or 7%. Foreign currency losses decreased by $1.1 million despite the fact that the U.S. Dollar continued to strengthen in comparison to the EURO, Japanese Yen and the Swiss Franc, because more sales agreements and related receivables outside of the U.S. were denominated in U.S. Dollar than in the same period of the previous year. This increase was partially offset by losses on hedging activities of $0.5 million as compared to the same period in prior year due to increased hedging activities in the current year and month-to-month volatility of the Swiss Franc against the U.S. Dollar as well as higher interest expense of $0.2 million due to continued debt discount accretion. Other expense, net for the six months ended December31, 2015 was $10.2 million as compared to $11.0 million for the six months ended December31, 2014, which represents a decrease of $0.8 million, or 7%. Foreign currency losses decreased by $2.5 million despite the fact that the U.S. Dollar continued to strengthen in comparison to the EURO, Japanese Yen and the Swiss Franc, because more sales agreements and related receivables outside of the U.S. were denominated in U.S. Dollar than in the same period of the previous year. This increase was partially offset by losses on hedging activities of $1.3 million as compared to the same period in prior year due to increased hedging activities in the current year and month-to-month volatility of the Swiss Franc against the U.S. Dollar as well as higher interest expense of $0.4 million due to continued debt discount accretion. Provision for Income Taxes On a quarterly basis, the Company provides for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. Income tax expenses were $0.8 million and $1.5 million for the three and six months ended December31, 2015, respectively, compared to income tax expenses of $0.9 million and $1.8 million for the three and six months ended December31, 2014, respectively. The decrease in tax expense of $0.1 million and $0.3 million for the three and six months ended December31, 2015, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended December31, 2014 was primarily related to a decrease in earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources At December31, 2015, we had $88.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $67.3 million in short-term investments, for a total of $155.8million. Refer to Note 7, Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements for discussion of the Convertible Notes. Based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that we will have sufficient cash resources and anticipated cash flows to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of December31, 2015, we had approximately $55.3 million of cash and cash equivalents at our foreign subsidiaries. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and unavailable for distribution in the form of dividends or otherwise. Accordingly, no provisions for U.S. income taxes have been provided thereon. We anticipate that we have adequate liquidity and capital resources for the next twelve months and do not anticipate the need to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries at December31, 2015. Our cash flows for the six months ended December31, 2015 and 2014 are summarized as follows (in thousands): Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities in the six months ended December31, 2015 was $20.3 million, as compared to $13.0 million used in operating activities in the six months ended December31, 2014. Net cash provided by operating activities in the six months ended December31, 2015 was primarily related to: Net loss of $19.1 million; Net loss was offset by non-cash items of $21.0 million related to depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, amortization and accretion of discount and premium on investments, amortization of debt issuance costs, accretion of interest on long-term debt, provision for doubtful accounts receivable and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; Decrease in restricted cash of $1.0 million due to releases of restrictions on cash related to bunker constructions during the year; Decrease in accounts receivable of $11.0 million as a result of collections on customer accounts in excess of billings resulting from significant sales transactions in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2015 that were collected in the first fiscal quarter of 2016, partially offset by a higher volume of invoicing as compared to payments in the second fiscal quarter of 2016; Increase in inventories of $5.7 million due to increases in purchases in the first fiscal quarter of 2016 to support expected future sales and service needs that began to be utilized in the second fiscal quarter of 2016; Increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.6 million primarily due to an increase in long-term accounts receivable of $6.5 million due to several large revenue contracts with extended payment terms. This was partially offset by a decrease of $1.4 million due to the settlement of value-add taxes in foreign locations, reduction of other prepaids of $0.7 million due to the release of vendor advances and amortization of prepayments for the ASTRO tradeshow offset by new additions, and a reduction in prepaid benefit costs of $0.8 million due to the timing of payments; Increase in deferred revenue of $5.9 million primarily due to additional product revenue deferrals added during the period in excess of the amount of deferred product revenue recognized; Increase in deferred cost of revenue of $2.7 million primarily due to the timing of inventory transfers to customers; 25 Increase in accounts payable of $6.7 million primarily due to an increase in inventory purchasing activities in the first half of fiscal 2016 and timing of payments as there was more large value payment activity at the end of prior year as compared with the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2016; Increase in accrued liabilities of $5.4 million primarily related to an increase in legal accrual of $5.7 million due to the award of damages related to the Cowealth litigation as described in Footnotes 5 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements as well as an increase in the bonus accrual of $1.1 million for the first half of fiscal 2016. These increases were partially offset by decreased revenue related accruals of $1.4 million due to the timing of payments; and Increase in customer advances of $0.3 million due mainly to payments received for future revenue deliverables; Net cash used in operating activities in the six months ended December31, 2014 was primarily related to: Net loss of $31.6 million; Net loss was offset by non-cash items of $22.5 million related to depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, amortization and accretion of discount and premium on investments, amortization of debt issuance costs, accretion of interest on long-term debt, recovery of doubtful accounts receivable and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; Decrease in accounts receivable of $6.6 million as a result of collections on customer accounts in excess of billings; Increase in inventories of $18.6 million due to increase in purchases to support expected future sales; Decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $2.8 million primarily due to the reduction of prepaid taxes of $1.8 million primarily in foreign locations due to settlements, a reduction in debt related costs of $0.8 million due to continued amortization, and a decrease in prepaid commissions of $0.5 million due to the conversion of deferred revenue into revenue in the second fiscal quarter of 2015. The decrease was offset by an increase in the prepaid insurance balance of $0.5 million due to the timing of payments; Increase in deferred revenue of $4.4 million primarily due the timing of service contract signing which resulted in more service contract deferrals as compared to prior period with a slight offset related to deferred system revenue which decreased due to additional installations of previously deferred systems; Decrease in deferred cost of revenue of $1.9 million due to additional installations of previously deferred systems; Increase in accounts payable of $1.3 million due to the timing of payments; and Decrease in accrued liabilities of $3.1 million primarily related to the bonus accrual reduction of $9.1 million due to bonus payments made in the first fiscal quarter of 2015 offset by additional accrual for bonuses for the six months ended December 31, 2014. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $3.7 million in deferred rent due to a renegotiated lease agreement, an increase of $1.0 million in legal fees due to the timing of billings and payments for continued matters, and increases of $0.6 million in interest payable and $0.3 million in foreign taxes payable due to timing of payments. Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $7.7 million for the six months ended December31, 2015, which primarily consisted of purchases of short-term investments of $33.1 million and purchases of property and equipment of $4.1 million partially offset by sales and maturities of investments of $29.5 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $21.2 million for the six months ended December31, 2014, which primarily consisted of sales and maturities of short-term investments of $81.4 million partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $4.2 million and purchases of investments of $56.0 million . 26 Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the six months ended December31, 2015 was $0.8 million from proceeds from employee stock plans offset by taxes paid related to net share settlement or equity awards. Net cash provided by financing activities during the six months ended December31, 2014 was $2.6 million from proceeds from employee stock plans. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors. These factors include but are not limited to the following: Revenue generated by sales of our products and service plans; Costs associated with our sales and marketing initiatives and manufacturing activities; Facilities, equipment and IT systems required to support current and future operations; Rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; Costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances of our products; Effects of competing technological and market developments; and Number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least 12months. If our cash and cash equivalents are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and marketing efforts. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended June30, 2015. There have been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the current quarter. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities. Actual results could therefore differ materially from those estimates if actual conditions differ from our assumptions. During the six months ended December31, 2015 we considered our estimated corporate bonus accrual to be a critical accounting estimate. The Company s bonus accrual for each quarter is based on its performance against Company defined metrics: net revenue, adjusted EBITDA and gross orders to backlog. There have been no changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates, as discussed in PartII,Item 7 of our Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2015, which we believe are those related to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts and loss contingencies. 27Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amounts and par value) (Unaudited) (1) The condensed consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2015 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) (in thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Accuray Incorporated Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business Accuray Incorporated (together with its subsidiaries, the Company or Accuray ) is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of business in Sunnyvale, California. The Company designs, develops and sells advanced radiosurgery and radiation therapy systems for the treatment of tumors throughout the body. The Company has offices in the United States, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong and Japan and conducts its business worldwide. Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), pursuant to the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ).Certain information and note disclosures have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rulesand regulations.The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, which include only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. The results for the three and nine months ended March31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the fiscal year ending June30, 2016, or for any other future interim period or fiscal year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company s audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended June30, 2015 included in the Company s Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on August28, 2015. The Company s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to those audited consolidated financial statements and there have been no material changes to such policies. We reclassified the debt issuance costs from other assets in the prior year s condensed consolidated balance sheet to long-term debt to conform to the current quarter presentation upon the adoption of ASU No.2015-03 as discussed below. Recent Accounting Standard Update Not Yet Effective In March2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.2016-09,Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718). The new guidance simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this standard are effective for annual periods beginning after December15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of this guidance on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02,Leases (Topic 842). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. This ASU requires additional disclosures. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. The ASU requires adoption based upon a modified retrospective transition approach. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet selected a transition method, has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09), to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgments and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the 6 transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. On July9, 2015, FASB approved a one-year deferral of the effective period for ASU 2014-09. The standard will be effective for the Company for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, but entities will be permitted to early adopt the standard as of the original effective date, which would be the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for the Company. The Company may adopt either of two methods: (i)retrospective to each prior reporting period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within ASU 2014-09; or (ii)retrospective with the cumulative effect of initially applying ASU 2014-09 recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures as defined within ASU 2014-09. The Company has not yet selected a transition method, has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2014-09 on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Accounting Standard Update Recently Adopted In April2015, FASB issued ASU No.2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs. We adopted ASU 2015-03 in our fiscal third quarter, an amended standard simplifying the presentation of debt issuance costs as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the debt liability rather than showing the debt issuance costs as an asset. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December2015, which would be effective the first quarter of fiscal 2017 for the Company. Early adoption is permitted under this ASU. Accordingly, we have applied the amendment retrospectively to the comparable period presented and it did not have a significant impact on our financial statements. Use of Estimates The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements. Key estimates and assumptions made by the Company relate to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts, loss contingencies and corporate bonus expenses. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Concentration of Credit and Other Risks The Company s cash, cash equivalents and investments are deposited with several major financial institutions. At times, deposits in these institutions exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and does not believe that it is exposed to any significant risk of loss on these balances. For the three and nine months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, there were no customers that represented 10% or more of total net revenue. No customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company s total accounts receivable as of March31, 2016. One customer accounted for 18% of the Company s total accounts receivable as of June30, 2015. Accounts receivable are typically not collateralized. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and maintains reserves for potential credit losses. Accounts receivable are deemed past due in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement. Accounts receivable balances are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts once collection efforts are unsuccessful. Single source suppliers presently provide the Company with several components. In most cases, if a supplier was unable to deliver these components, the Company believes that it would be able to find other sources for these components subject to any regulatory qualifications, if required. Revenue Recognition The Company earns revenue from the sale of products and related services. The Company records revenues net of any value added or sales tax. For arrangements with multiple elements, the Company allocates arrangement fees to products and services based upon Vendor Specific Objective Evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value of the respective elements, Third-Party Evidence ( TPE ), or Best Estimate of Selling Price ( BESP ), using the relative selling price method. Product and Service Revenue The majority of product revenue is generated from sales of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems. If the Company is responsible for installation, the Company recognizes revenue after installation and acceptance of the system. Otherwise, revenue is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. 7 The Company offers systems with post-contract customer support ( PCS ), installation services, training and professional services. PCS includes planned and corrective maintenance services, software updates, bug fixes, as well as call-center support. Service revenue is generated primarily from PCS (warranty period services and post warranty services), installation services, training, parts and upgrades that are sold under service contracts and professional services. PCS revenue is deferred and recognized over the service period. Installation service revenue is recognized concurrent with system revenue. Training and professional service revenues that are not deemed essential to the functionality of the systems are recognized as such services are performed. Costs associated with service revenue are expensed when incurred, except when those costs are related to parts or system upgrades where revenue recognition has been deferred. In those cases, the costs are deferred and are recognized over the period of revenue recognition. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share follows (in thousands): The potentially dilutive shares of the Company s common stock resulting from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units (RSU), Market Stock Units (MSU) and Performance Stock Units (PSU), and the purchase of shares under the Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP), as determined under the treasury stock method, are excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Additionally, the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August1, 2016 (the 3.75% Convertible Notes ), the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February1, 2018 (the 3.50% Convertible Notes ) and the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ) due February1, 2018 (together, the Convertible Notes ) are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share only if their inclusion is dilutive. For the three months ended March31, 2016, the potentially dilutive shares issuable upon the conversion of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes were included in the calculation of the diluted net income per share, while the dilutive shares issuable upon the conversion of the 3.50% Convertible Notes were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. For the three months ended March31, 2015, the potentially dilutive shares under the Convertible Notes were excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. The following table sets forth all potentially dilutive securities excluded from the computation in the table above because their effect would have been anti-dilutive (in thousands): 8 Outstanding Convertible Notes Diluted Share Impact The 3.75% Convertible Notes and 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes have an optional physical (share), cash or combination settlement feature and contain certain conditional conversion features. Due to the optional cash settlement feature and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash, the conversion shares underlying the outstanding principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes and the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, totaling approximately 3.9million shares and 13.2million shares, respectively, were not included in the potentially diluted share count table above. The Company s average stock price did not exceed the conversion price of the 3.75% Convertible Notes as of March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The 0.5million potentially dilutive shares of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes as of March31, 2015 included in the table above represent the premium over the principal amount due to the higher average share price above the conversion price. The number of premium shares included in the Company s diluted share count will vary with fluctuations in the Company s share price. Higher actual share prices result in a greater number of premium shares. Segment Information The Company has determined that it operates in only one segment, as it only reports profit and loss information on an aggregate basis to its chief operating decision maker. Revenue by geographic region is based on the shipping addresses of the Company s customers. The following summarizes revenue by geographic region (in thousands): Information regarding geographic areas in which the Company has long lived tangible assets is as follows (in thousands): 2. Balance Sheet Components Financing receivables A financing receivable is a contractual right to receive money, on demand or on fixed or determinable dates, that is recognized as an asset in the Company s balance sheet. The Company s financing receivables, consisting of its accounts receivable with contractual maturities of more than one year and capital leases, totaled $7.3million and $1.6million at March31, 2016 and June30, 2015, respectively, and are included in Other Assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Of the $7.3 million in financing receivables at March31, 2016, $3.7 million related to capital leases with customers while the remaining $3.6 million related to contractual maturities of more than one year. At June30, 2015, the $1.6 million related to contractual maturities of more than one year with no capital leases. Due to the homogenous nature of the leasing transactions, the Company manages them on an aggregate basis when assessing and monitoring credit risk. The Company evaluates the credit quality of an obligor at lease inception and monitors credit quality over the term of the underlying transactions. The Company performs a credit analysis for all new customers and reviews payment history, current order backlog, financial performance of the customers and other variables that augment or mitigate the inherent credit risk of a particular transaction. Such variables include the underlying value and liquidity of the collateral, the essential use of the equipment, the term of the lease and the inclusion of credit enhancements, such as guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits. Accounts rated as low risk typically have the equivalent of a Moody s rating of Baa3 or higher, while accounts rated as moderate risk generally have the equivalent of a Ba1 or lower. The Company classifies accounts as high risk when it considers the financing receivable to be impaired or when management believes there is a significant near-term risk of payments. As of March31, 2016, the capital lease portion of the financing receivables was rated at a moderate risk. There was no allowance for doubtful accounts related to such financing receivables as of March31, 2016 and June30, 2015, respectively. 9 Inventories Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): Property and equipment, net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (inthousands): Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three and nine months ended March31, 2016 was $2.6million and $7.7million, respectively. Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three and nine months ended March31, 2015 was $2.9 million and $8.9 million, respectively . 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill Activity related to goodwill consisted of the following (in thousands): In the second quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that there was no impairment to goodwill. The Company will continue to monitor its recorded goodwill for indicators of impairment. 10 Intangible Assets The Company s unamortized intangible assets associated with completed acquisitions at March31, 2016 and June30, 2015 are as follows (in thousands): The Company did not identify any triggering events that would indicate potential impairment of its definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets as of March31, 2016 and June30, 2015. Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the three and nine months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 was $2.0 million and $6.0 million, respectively. The estimated future amortization expense of purchased intangible assets as of March31, 2016 is as follows (in thousands): 4. Financial Instruments The Company considers all highly liquid investments held at major banks, certificates of deposit and other securities with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company classifies all of its investments as available-for-sale at the time of purchase because management intends that these investments are available for current operations and includes these investments on its balance sheet as short-term investments. Investments with original maturities longer than three months include commercial paper, U.S. agency securities, non-U.S. government securities and investment-grade corporate debt securities. Investments classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair market value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recorded based on specific identification of each security s cost basis. The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy contains three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level1 Unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for the identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. Level2 Other observable inputs available at the measurement date, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly, including: Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in non-active markets; Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; and Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by other observable market data. Level3 Unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated by observable market data and require the use of significant management judgment. These values are generally determined using pricing models for which the assumptions utilize management s estimates of market participant assumptions. 11 The following tables summarize the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by significant investment category for cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (in thousands): Certain investments in the table above are classified as having Level2 inputs because quoted prices in an active market are not readily accessible for those specific financial assets, or the Company may have relied on alternative pricing methods that do not rely exclusively on quoted prices to determine the fair value of the investments. The Company had investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of March31, 2016. The Company determined that (i)it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii)it is not likely that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company reviews its investments quarterly to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment. As of March31, 2016, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire carrying value of such investments and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the nine months ended March31, 2016. Contractual maturities of available-for-sale securities at March31, 2016 were as follows (inthousands): The following table summarizes the carrying values and estimated fair values of our short-term and long-term debt (in thousands): 12 The short-term and long-term debt is measured on a non-recurring basis using Level 2 inputs based upon observable inputs of the Company s underlying stock price and the time value of the conversion option, since an observable quoted price of the Convertible Notes is not readily available. 5. Commitments and Contingencies The Company s contractual obligations were presented in the Annual Report on Form10-K for the previous annual reporting period ended June30, 2015. There has been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the nine months ended March31, 2016. Litigation From time to time, the Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company records a provision for a loss when it believes that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Currently, management believes the Company does not have any probable and estimable losses related to any current legal proceedings and claims. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, management does not believe that an adverse determination with respect to any of these claims would individually or in the aggregate materially and adversely affect the Company s financial condition or operating results. For certain legal proceedings, management believes that there is a reasonable possibility that material losses may be incurred; however, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a range of reasonably possible losses with respect to these matters. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Company s control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, the Company could incur significant charges related to legal matters that could have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Rotary Systems On April28, 2011, a former supplier to TomoTherapy, Rotary Systems Incorporated ( Rotary Systems ), filed suit in Minnesota state court, Tenth Judicial District, Anoka County, against TomoTherapy alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, as well as several other counts alleging various theories of injury. Rotary Systems alleges TomoTherapy misappropriated Rotary Systems trade secrets pertaining to a component previously purchased from Rotary Systems, which TomoTherapy now purchases from a different supplier. The suit alleges TomoTherapy improperly supplied the alleged trade secrets to its present supplier, Dynamic Sealing TechnologiesInc. (also a named defendant in the suit). Rotary Systems has made an unspecified claim for damages of greater than $50,000. TomoTherapy moved to dismiss the case and, on August29, 2011, the court granted the motion to dismiss with respect to all counts other than the count alleging misappropriation of trade secrets. On May21, 2012, the court gave Rotary Systems sixty days to identify the alleged trade secrets with specificity or face dismissal of its claim with prejudice. The court held a hearing on September20, 2012 to review Rotary Systems amended complaint. TomoTherapy filed a motion for summary judgment on the trade secret claim, the court ruled in favor of TomoTherapy on December5, 2013, and Rotary Systems appealed. On December22, 2014, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the district court s dismissal of Rotary Systems trade secrets claim and remanded it to the district court but affirmed the dismissal of Rotary Systems other claims. In late October2015, a final scheduling order was confirmed for the remanded claims and the parties are currently in the process of conducting discovery. On April19, 2016, the parties entered into a written settlement agreement resolving the lawsuit. A stipulation of dismissal dismissing all claim by all parties with prejudice is anticipated to be filed no later than May25, 2016. Cowealth Medical On February27, 2014, Cowealth Medical HoldingCo.,Ltd. ( Cowealth ), Accuray s former distributor in China, submitted a request for binding arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerce International Court of Arbitration ( ICC ) alleging, among other matters, that Accuray breached its distributor agreement with Cowealth by wrongfully terminating Cowealth as its distributor and misappropriated certain of Cowealth s confidential information. Cowealth was seeking damages of approximately $170.0 million and injunctive relief. Accuray filed counterclaims for damages of approximately $35.0 million. Accuray s answer and counterclaim were submitted to the ICC on May12, 2014, and Cowealth served its reply on June27, 2014. A hearing was held in Hong Kong between January26, 2015 and February6, 2015. The parties filed closing submissions and reply closing submissions in March2015. On October29, 2015, the ICC ruled that Accuray was liable for certain damages and awarded Cowealth approximately $3.4 million. On November 27, 2015, Cowealth applied for a correction to the award to revise the amount of damages upwards to approximately $5.5 million. On January 21, 2016, the arbitrator granted Cowealth s application for a correction on the grounds that the original award amount was a clerical error on the part of the arbitrator. Interest on the final award amount will accrue at a rate of 5% per annum starting 30 days after the date the corrected award was issued until payment. Accordingly, management recorded a charge of $3.4 million for the first fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2015, and an additional $2.1 million for the second fiscal 13 quarter ending December30, 2015. The parties filed cost submissions and reply cost submissions in December2015. The ICC released the final award on February12, 2016, which dealt with the parties claims for costs of the arbitration. Under the final award, the arbitrator awarded costs to Cowealth at a net amount of $2.4 million and rejected all other claims and requests. Prior to the ruling of the ICC, no accrual was established in the Company s consolidated financial statements because management did not believe the likelihood of an award of damages or costs of arbitration to Cowealth was probable or estimable. In addition, the Company won several of its counterclaims including the right to be assigned the existing service contracts between Cowealth and Accuray customers, transfer to Accuray any regulatory clearances, licenses or permits obtained and held for the purposes of selling the CyberKnife System in China and deliver any consigned parts in their possession. Software License Indemnity Under the terms of the Company s software license agreements with its customers, the Company agrees that in the event the software sold infringes upon any patent, copyright, trademark, or any other proprietary right of a third-party, it will indemnify its customer licensees against any loss, expense, or liability from any damages that may be awarded against its customer. The Company includes this infringement indemnification in all of its software license agreements and selected managed services arrangements. In the event the customer cannot use the software or service due to infringement and the Company cannot obtain the right to use, replace or modify the license or service in a commercially feasible manner so that it no longer infringes, then the Company may terminate the license and provide the customer a refund of the fees paid by the customer for the infringing license or service. The Company has not recorded any liability associated with this indemnification, as it is not aware of any pending or threatened actions that represent probable losses as of March31, 2016. 6. Share-Based Compensation The following table summarizes the share-based compensation charges included in the Company s condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss (in thousands): 7. Debt First Lien Senior Secured Term Loan due January2021 (Secured Loan) On January11, 2016, the Company closed a $70.0 million first lien senior secured debt financing agreement with Cerberus Business Finance, LLC, an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management, L.P (the Secured Loan ). The proceeds of the loan are to be used to retire the 3.75% Convertible Notes at the earlier of August 2016 or when otherwise redeemed. The Secured Loan bears interest at a variable rate per annum equal to, at the Company s option, (i) the LIBOR Rate for one month plus an applicable margin of 7.00% (subject to a LIBOR Rate floor of 1.00% per annum), or (ii) a Reference Rate, which is the higher of 1) 3.25%, 2) Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5%, 3) the LIBOR rate for 1 month plus 1%, and 4) the US Prime Rate as published in the Wall Street Journal, plus an applicable margin of 4.75% per annum. The loan is repayable in consecutive quarterly installments of $875,000 with the final payment due on the Final Maturity Date. The Secured Loan matures on the earlier of: (i) January 11, 2021 and (ii) the date that is 120 days prior to the scheduled maturity date of the 3.5% Convertible Notes maturing February 1, 2018 unless the Company has set aside specifically identifiable funds raised from new common equity or new debt equal to the then-outstanding principal amount of the 3.5% Convertible Notes. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $65.5 million. The offering costs of $3.1 million and the initial purchaser s discount and commission of $1.4 million (both of which are recorded in Long-term Debt) are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The Secured Loan is secured by first-priority liens on substantially all the assets of the Company. The covenants in the Secured Loan include: Secured leverage defines the maximum amount of secured leverage that can be on the Company s books at a given point in time calculated by the total secured debt divided by the last twelve months adjusted EBITDA; 14 Total leverage defines the maximum amount of total leverage that can be on the Company s books at a given point in time calculated by the total debt divided by the last twelve months adjusted EBITDA; Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio designed to ensure that the Company s cash fixed charges are met with adequate free cash flow based on a minimum coverage ratio to be set and maintained; Minimum EBITDA defines the minimum amount of adjusted EBITDA the Company must maintain and generate; Maximum CapEx defines how much cash the Company can use annually to pursue capital projects, purchase PP&amp;E and other related activities during the life of the loan; and Affirmative and negative covenants defines reporting requirements, subsidiary asset restrictions, dividend distribution and repayment requirements among other general requirements. The Company may, at its election, repay the Secured Loan at any time and if so, the Company will be required to pay a prepayment premium of 2% if the Secured Loan is repaid or accelerated within the first year on the amount repaid and 1% if the Secured Loan is repaid or accelerated within the second year on the amount repaid. 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August2016 On August1, 2011, the Company issued the 3.75% Convertible Notes to certain qualified institutional buyers, or QIBs. The 3.75% Convertible Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), or Rule144A. The net proceeds from the $100million offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $96.1million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission (which are recorded in Long-term Debt) are both being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.75% Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.75% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, beginning on February1, 2012. The 3.75% Convertible Notes will mature on August1, 2016, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. A portion of these notes were redeemed in January2016, as discussed further below. The 3.75% Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.75% Convertible Notes at any time on or after May1, 2016 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to May1, 2016, holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.75% Convertible Notes only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2011, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Notes for each trading day of that Note Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; (3)if the Company calls any or all of the 3.75% Convertible Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the redemption date; or (4)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 33rdbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate is 105.5548 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $9.47 per share of the Company s common stock). The conversion rate, and thus the conversion price, is subject to adjustment as further described below. Holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes who convert their 3.75% Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.75% Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.75% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. Prior to the maturity date, the Company may redeem for cash all or a portion of the 3.75% Convertible Notes if the closing sale price of its common stock exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price (the initial conversion price is approximately $9.47 15 per share of common stock) of such 3.75% Convertible Notes for at least 20 trading days during any consecutive 30trading-day period (including the last trading day of such period). In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.75% Convertible Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.75% Convertible Notes was $75.9million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 10%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $24.1million. A portion of the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the offering costs totaling $0.9million was allocated to the equity conversion component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes using the effective interest method over five years. In January2016, the Company repurchased approximately $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of its 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August2016 for $66.6 million in cash. As $63.4 million of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were settled in cash, a total of 6.7 million potentially dilutive shares are no longer potentially outstanding from an EPS perspective, these shares were already noted in Note 1 above as being excluded due to being anti-dilutive in the current fiscal quarter of 2016. Following such transactions, approximately $44.7 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes, approximately $36.6 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Notes and approximately $70.3 million of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes remained outstanding. The Company recorded a charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 of approximately $1.0 million associated with the repurchase of the notes. 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 In February2013, the Company issued $115.0million aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% Convertible Notes to certain QIBs. The 3.50% Convertible Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $110.5million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission (which are recorded in Long-term Debt) are both being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.50% Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, which began on August1, 2013. The 3.50% Convertible Notes will mature on February1, 2018, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. In April2014, through a series of transactions, the Company refinanced approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the Company s new 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ). The 3.50% Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes at any time until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. The 3.50% Convertible Notes are convertible, as described below into common stock of the Company at an initial conversion rate equal to 187.6877 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes who convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with guidance in ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC815-15, Embedded Derivatives, the Company determined that the embedded conversion components of the 3.50% Convertible Note do not require bifurcation and separate accounting. The remaining $44.7million principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Note has been recorded in Long-term Debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March31, 2016. 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 On April17, 2014, the Company entered into note exchange agreements with certain holders (the Participating Holders ) of the 3.50% Convertible Notes to refinance approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. Pursuant to the note exchange agreements, the Company also paid the Participating Holders an aggregate of approximately $0.4million in cash in connection with 16 such transactions. The principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes refinanced for each $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $1,000 and the amount in cash paid per $1,000 principal amount of such 3.50% Convertible Notes delivered was determined in individual negotiations between the Company and each Participating Holder. The SeriesA Convertible Notes have the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the 3.50% Convertible Notes, except that the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at the Company s option. The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their Securities at any time on or after November1, 2017 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to November1, 2017, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their Securities only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2014, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes for each trading day of that Securities Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; or (3)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 17thbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate is 187.6877 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of the Company s common stock). The conversion rate, and thus the conversion price, is subject to adjustment as further described below. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes who convert their Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $62.5million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 7%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $7.9million. In addition, the portion of the cash amount paid to the Participating Holders totaling $0.4 million was allocated to the debt discount with the remaining $47,000 to the equity component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes using the effective interest method through the maturity in February2018. The following table presents the carrying values of all Convertible Notes and notes issued pursuant to the Secured Loan (collectively, Notes ) as of March31, 2016 (in thousands): 17 A summary of interest expense on the Notes is as follows (in thousands): 8. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of net loss, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments, changes in foreign currency exchange rate translation and net changes related to defined benefit pension plan. These components are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of stockholders equity. The foreign currency translation adjustment results from those subsidiaries not using the United States dollar as their functional currency since the majority of their economic activities are primarily denominated in their applicable local currency. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities related to these operations are translated at the current exchange rates at the end of each period. The resulting cumulative translation adjustments are recorded directly to the accumulated other comprehensive loss account in stockholders equity. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period. The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the equity section of the balance sheets are as follows (in thousands): Item 2. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition as of March31, 2016 and results of operations for the three and nine months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.Statements made in this Form10-Q report that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements in this report relate, but are not limited, to: our future results of operations and financial position, including the sufficiency of cash resources and expected cash flows to fund future operations, including the next 12 months; our backlog and expectations regarding age-outs, cancellations of contracts and foreign currency impacts, the effects of our process improvements on age-outs, backlog and revenue; expected uses of cash during fiscal 2016; the anticipated drivers of our future capital requirements; the success of the multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC for the CyberKnife Systems, its impact on our business; our expectations regarding the factors that will impact long-term success, sales, competitive positioning and long-term success for our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; our belief that TomoTherapy Systems offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market; the anticipated risks associated with our foreign operations and fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies as well as our ability to mitigate such risks; the sufficiency of our cash, cash flow equivalents and investments to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures and our business strategy, plans and objectives.Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, may, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations, including those risks discussed in this quarterly report, in particular under the heading Risk Factors in PartII,Item 1A as well as the risks detailed in PartI,Item 1A of the Company s annual report on Form10-K for fiscal year 2015, in PartII,Item 1A of the Company s quarterly reports on Form10-Q for the quarters ended September30, 2015 and, December31, 2015, and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made and are based on information available to the Company at the time those statements are made and/or management s good faith belief as of that time with respect to future events. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual performance or results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. 18 In this report, Accuray, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Accuray Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Overview Products and Markets We are a radiation oncology company that develops, manufactures, sells and supports precise, innovative treatment solutions which set the standard of care, with the aim of helping patients live longer, better lives. Our leading edge technologies, the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, are designed to deliver advanced radiation therapy including radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy, intensity modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation therapy and adaptive radiation therapy tailored to the specific needs of each patient. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complementary offerings serving largely separate patient populations treated by the same medical specialty, radiation oncology, with advanced capabilities that offer increased treatment flexibility to meet the needs of an expanding patient population including patients requiring retreatment with radiation therapy. The CyberKnife Systems are robotic systems designed to deliver radiosurgery treatments to cancer tumors anywhere in the body. The CyberKnife Systems are the only dedicated, full-body robotic radiosurgery systems on the market. Radiosurgery is an alternative to traditional surgery for tumors and is performed on an outpatient basis in one to five treatment sessions. It enables the treatment of patients who typically might not otherwise be treated with radiation, who may not be good candidates for surgery, or who desire non-surgical treatments. The use of radiosurgery with CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors throughout the body has grown significantly in recent years, but currently only a small portion of the patients who develop tumors treatable with CyberKnife Systems are treated with these systems. A determination of when it may or may not be appropriate to use a CyberKnife System for treatment is at the discretion of the treating physician and depends on the specific patient. However, the CyberKnife Systems are generally not used to treat (1)very large tumors, which are considerably wider than the radiation beam that can be delivered by CyberKnife Systems, (2)diffuse wide-spread disease, as is often the case for late stage cancers, because they are not localized (though CyberKnife Systems might be used to treat a focal area of the disease) and (3)systemic diseases, like leukemia and lymphoma, which are not localized to an organ, but rather involve cells throughout the body. Our CyberKnife M6 SeriesSystems have the option of: fixed collimator, iris collimator and/or InCise MLC. The InCise MLC is designed specifically for the M6 Series. With the addition of the InCise MLC, clinicians can deliver the same precise radiosurgery treatments they have come to expect with the CyberKnife System, faster and for a wider range of tumor types. The InCise MLC was commercially launched in the third fiscal quarter of 2015. The addition of the multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC, now makes it faster and more efficient to treat a wider range of tumor types with the CyberKnife M6, including larger tumors and those with multiple sites of disease. We believe the long term success of the CyberKnife Systems is dependent on a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our CyberKnife M6 Series Systems; Production and shipment of InCise MLCs that meet the standards that we, and our customers, expect in our products; Change in medical practice leading to utilization of stereotactic body radiosurgery more regularly as an alternative to surgery or other treatments; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the benefits of radiosurgery with the CyberKnife Systems; Continued evolution in clinical studies demonstrating the safety, efficacy and other benefits of using the CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors in various parts of the body; Continued advances in our technology that improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of the CyberKnife Systems; Receipt of regulatory approvals in various countries which is expected to improve access to radiosurgery with the CyberKnife Systems in such countries; Medical insurance reimbursement policies that cover CyberKnife System treatments; and Our ability to expand sales of CyberKnife Systems in countries throughout the world. 19 The TomoTherapy Systems are advanced, fully integrated and versatile radiation therapy systems for the treatment of a wide range of cancer types. The TomoTherapy Systems are specifically designed for image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IG-IMRT). The TomoTherapy H SeriesSystems come in configurations of TomoHTM, TomoHDTM and TomoHDA TM . Based on a CT scanner platform, the systems provide continuous delivery of radiation from 360 degrees around the patient, or delivery from clinician-specified beam angles. These unique features, combined with daily 3D image guidance, enable physicians to deliver highly accurate, individualized dose distributions which precisely conform to the shape of the patient s tumor while minimizing dose to normal, healthy tissue, resulting in fewer side effects for patients. The TomoTherapy Systems are capable of treating all standard radiation therapy indications including breast, prostate, lung and head and neck cancers, in addition to complex and novel treatments such as total marrow irradiation. Radiation therapy has been widely available and used in developed countries for decades, though many developing countries do not currently have a sufficient number of radiation therapy systems to adequately treat their domestic cancer patient populations. The number of radiation therapy systems in use and sold each year is currently many times larger than the number of radiosurgery systems. We believe the TomoTherapy Systems offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market. We believe our ability to capture more sales will be influenced by a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our TomoTherapy Systems; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the unique benefits of radiation therapy using TomoTherapy Systems because of their ring gantry architecture and ability to deliver treatment from 360 degrees around the patient; Advances in our technology which improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of TomoTherapy Systems; Greater awareness among doctors of the now-established reliability of TomoTherapy Systems; and Our ability to expand sales of TomoTherapy Systems in countries throughout the world. Sale of Our Products Generating revenue from the sale of our systems is a lengthy process. Selling our systems, from first contact with a potential customer to a signed sales contract that meets our backlog criteria (as discussed below) varies significantly and generally spans six months to two years. The time from receipt of a signed contract to revenue recognition is governed generally by the time required by the customer to build, renovate or prepare the treatment room for installation of the system. In the United States, we primarily market directly to customers, including hospitals and stand-alone treatment facilities, through our sales organization and we also market to customers through sales agents and group purchasing organizations. Outside the United States, we market to customers directly and through distributors and some sales agents. In addition to our offices in the United States, we have sales and service offices in many countries in Europe, Japan and other countries in Asia, South America, and throughout the world. Backlog For orders that cover both products and services, only the portion of the order that is recognizable as product revenue is reported as backlog. The portion of the order that is recognized as service revenue (for example, post-contract customer support (PCS), installation, training and professional services) is not included in reported backlog. Product backlog totaled $370.5million as of March31, 2016 compared to $375.0 million as of June30, 2015. In order for the product portion of a CyberKnife or TomoTherapy System sales agreement to be counted as backlog, it must meet the following criteria: The contract is signed and properly executed by both the customer and us. A customer purchase order that is signed and incorporates the terms of our contract quote will be considered equivalent to a signed and executed contract; The contract has either cleared all its contingencies or contains no contingencies when signed; We have received a minimum deposit or a letter of credit; the sale is a direct channel sale to a government entity, or the product has shipped to a customer with credit sufficient to cover the minimum deposit; 20 The specific end customer site has been identified by the customer in the written contract or written amendment; For orders in our Latin America region, unless the system has already shipped and collection is reasonably assured, we request supporting evidence that the end customer has commenced construction to place our products if a site does not already exist; and Less than 2.5 years have passed since the contract met all the criteria above. Although our backlog includes only contractual agreements with our customers for the purchase of CyberKnife Systems, TomoTherapy Systems and related upgrades, because of factors outside of our control, we cannot provide assurance that we will convert backlog into recognized revenue. The amount of backlog recognized into revenue is primarily impacted by three items: cancellations, age-outs and foreign currency fluctuations. Orders could be cancelled for reasons including, without limitation, changes in customers needs or financial condition, changes in government or health insurance reimbursement policies, changes to regulatory requirements, or other reasons. In addition to cancellations, after 2.5 years, if we have not been able to recognize revenue on a contract, we remove the revenue associated with the contract from backlog and the order is considered aged out. Contracts may age-out for many reasons, including inability of the customer to pay, inability of the customer to adapt their facilities to accommodate our products in a timely manner, inability to timely obtain licenses necessary for customer facilities or operation of our equipment among other reasons for delays. Our backlog also includes amounts not denominated in U.S. Dollars and therefore fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar as compared to other currencies will impact backlog. Generally, strengthening in the U.S. Dollar will negatively impact backlog. Gross orders are defined as the sum of new orders recorded during the period adjusted for any revisions to existing orders during the period. Net product orders are defined as gross product orders less cancellations, age-outs and foreign exchange adjustments. Gross orders increased by $4.5 million for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2015. This was a result of an increase of $4.3 million in new system order volume added as the total number of system orders increased from the same prior year period. The TomoTherapy System order volume drove the increase for this period and was partially offset by a decrease in order volume for the CyberKnife System. The remaining change was a result of a slight increase in order amendments of $1.2 million offset by fewer upgrades which decreased by $1.0 million in the three months ended March31, 2016 as compared to the same prior year period. Gross orders increased by $5.5 million for the nine months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2015. This was a result of increased CyberKnife System order volume as compared to the same prior year period, partially offset by a slight decrease in TomoTherapy System order volume. The increase in CyberKnife System orders is in line with of the increased demand for systems with the InCise MLC, after its introduction in the third quarter of fiscal 2015. The majority of new orders added for CyberKnife Systems this period were for systems with the InCise MLC. Net orders increased by $21.6 million for the three months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2015, resulting from the increase in gross orders of $4.5 million as well as fewer age-outs of $6.3 million and a $10.8 million favorable currency impact. There were age-outs of $10.8 million and $11.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, resulting from the age-out of two fewer systems as compared to the prior year period. There were two systems previously aged out that were recognized into revenue in the current period resulting in age-ins of $5.6 million and zero for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. There were no cancellations in either the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. 21 Currency impacts resulted in an increase in net orders of $6.4 million and a decrease of $4.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net orders increased by $35.3 million for the nine months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2015, resulting from the increase in gross orders of $5.5 million plus an increase of $21.6 million due to foreign currency impacts and an increase of $4.8 million due to age-outs and a decrease in cancellations of $3.4 million. The age-outs of $42.8 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2016 include $10.9 million of age-ins which represent orders that previously aged-out but have been taken to revenue in the current period. There were no age-ins included in the age-out number for the nine months ended March 31, 2015. Cancellations were $6.0 million and $9.4 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. Currency impacts resulted in increase in net orders of $5.4 million compared to a decrease of $16.2 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Currently, we expect age-outs in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year to be in the range of $8.0 to $11.0 million as compared to $3.3 million in age-outs recorded during the three months ended June30, 2015. Beginning in fiscal 2013, we made changes to our order taking process, including increased oversight responsibility for and management of distributors and changes in timing as to when we enter some of our distributor orders into backlog. We believe these changes will improve the quality of backlog over time and reduce the level of age-outs. Results of Operations Three and nine months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 (a) Expressed as a percentage of total net revenue, except for product and services gross profits which are expressed as a percentage of related product and services revenue. Net Revenue Product Net Revenue . Product net revenue increased by $7.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015, primarily due to an increase of $9.3 million in new system revenue resulting from an increase in the number of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems taken to revenue in the current period as compared to the prior year period. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $1.9 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. 22 Product net revenue increased by $22.5 million for the nine months ended March31, 2016, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2015, primarily due to an increase of $23.6 million in new system revenue due to an increase in the number of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems taken to revenue in the current period as compared to the prior year period. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $1.1 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. Services Net Revenue . Services net revenue increased by $0.4 million and $3.3 million for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2016, respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended March 31, 2015, respectively. The increase in services net revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015, was driven by increased installation revenue of $0.4 million. The increase in service net revenue for the nine months ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended March 31, 2015 was primarily attributable to an increase in training revenue because of the timing of the expiration of training points; however, we don t expect training revenue from expired points to be at this volume going forward. Percentage of net revenue by geographic region, based on the shipping location of our customers, is as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $72.6 million and $44.9 million for the three months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and represented 69% and 46% of our net revenue during these periods, respectively. Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $174.9 million and $141.2 million for the nine months ended March31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and represented 58% and 51% of our net revenue during these periods . Gross Profit Overall gross profit for the three months ended March31, 2016, increased $6.3 million, or 16%, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2015. Product gross profit increased 27%, or $5.1 million, primarily due to the increase in systems taken to revenue resulting in product revenue increasing by $7.4 million, which was partially offset by higher product costs associated with increased unit volume resulting in a decrease to gross profit of $2.3 million. Service gross profit increased 6%, or $1.2 million, as a result of higher service revenues of $0.4 million driven by increased installation and training revenues, as well as decreased service costs of $0.8 million resulting from reductions in departmental spending due to headcount decreases and lower upgrade parts utilization. Overall gross profit for the nine months ended March31, 2016, increased $16.5 million, or 16%, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2015. Product gross profit increased 24%, or $12.3 million, primarily due to the increase in systems taken to revenue resulting in product revenue increasing by $22.5 million, which was partially offset by higher product costs associated with increased unit volume resulting in a decrease to gross profit of $10.2 million from both the increase in the number of systems taken to revenue as well as higher construction costs associated with sales in Europe. Service gross profit increased 8%, or $4.2 million, as a result of higher service revenues of $3.3 million driven by increased training revenue and lower service costs of $0.9 million. Research and Development Research and development expenses were $13.3 million in the three months ended March31, 2016 as compared to $12.8 million in the three months ended March31, 2015, which represents an increase of $0.5 million, or 3%. The increase was primarily due to a $0.6 million increase in consulting fees as a result of several new development projects and increased compensation related expenses of $0.1 million due to higher vacation expense as well as a higher stock-based compensation expense as compared with the prior fiscal period. These increases were partially offset by fewer materials costs due to project delays and a decrease in IT and facilities allocated expenses related to revised allocation rates and headcount in fiscal year 2016. Research and development expenses were $42.5million in the nine months ended March31, 2016 as compared to $40.9 million in the nine months ended March31, 2015, which represents an increase of $1.6 million, or 4%. The increase was primarily due to a $3.7 million increase in consulting fees mainly as a result of a development project that started in 2015. This increase was partially offset by decreased personnel related expenses of $1.5million due to lower headcount as compared with prior period and a 23 decrease in materials and supplies expenses of $0.7 million due to several large research and development projects completed prior to fiscal year 2016. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended March31, 2016 were $12.5 million as compared to $13.0 million for the three months ended March31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $0.5 million, or 4%. The decrease is primarily because of a $0.7 million reduction in commission expense because of several revenue deals with greater commission expense in the prior year as commission amount can vary from deal to deal, as well as reduced personnel related expense of $0.4 million. In addition, there were reductions in travel expenses and IT and facilities allocated expenses related to revised allocation rates and headcount in fiscal year 2016. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $0.4 million in marketing related expenses driven mainly by the timing of tradeshows and higher consulting expenses of $0.4 million related to new collaboration agreements and some additional software costs. Selling and marketing expenses for the nine months ended March31, 2016 were $41.0 million as compared to $46.8 million for the nine months ended March31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $5.8 million, or 12%. The decrease is primarily because of a $3.6million reduction in personnel related expenses resulting mainly from lower commissions of $2.2 million because of several revenue deals with greater commission expense in the prior year and decreased salaries and benefits of $1.4million related to lower headcount. Travel expenses also decreased by $0.7 million because of lower headcount in the sales and marketing departments. In addition, consulting fees decreased by $0.7 million because of fewer marketing initiative projects as compared to the prior year. General marketing expenses also decreased by $0.5 million in lower trade show expenses mainly because of the location of the ASTRO tradeshow. Lastly, there were reductions of $0.4 million in IT and facilities allocated expenses related to revised allocation rates and a reduction in headcount in fiscal year 2016. These decreases were partially offset by increases in collaboration and grant agreements related expenses of $0.2 million compared to prior year. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March31, 2016 were $13.7 million as compared to $11.7 million for the three months ended March31, 2015, which represents an increase of $2.0 million, or 18%. This increase was mainly attributable to $1.8 million in higher legal fees associated with Cowealth and Rotary settlements in the third fiscal quarter of 2016 as described in Note 5 to the financial statements. In addition, personnel related expenses increased $0.4 million because of additional headcount as compared to the same prior year period. Tax and insurance expenses increased by $0.4 million primarily as a result of the release of tax accruals due to statute expirations in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in non-recurring consulting expenses of $0.6 million from the prior year. General and administrative expenses for the nine months ended March31, 2016 were $39.8 million as compared to $35.0 million for the nine months ended March31, 2015, which represents an increase of $4.8 million, or 14%. The increase was related to higher legal fees of $4.5 million associated with the Cowealth and Rotary settlements described in Note 5 to the financial statements. In addition, there were higher tax expenses of $1.0 million as a result of the release of tax accruals due to statute expirations in prior year. There were also increases in audit fees of $0.2 million compared to prior year and increases of $0.2 million in IT and facilities allocated expenses related to revised allocation rates and headcount in fiscal year 2016. These increases were partially offset by non-recurring consulting expenses of $0.6 million due to fewer projects with general and administrative involvement and $0.6 million in non-recurring investor relations expense from prior year. Other Expense, net Other expense, net for the three months ended March31, 2016 was $4.0 million as compared to $3.6 million for the three months ended March31, 2015, which represents an increase of $0.4 million, or 10%. The increase in expenses was driven by a $1.0 million loss on extinguishment of debt that was recorded in accordance of the repayment of $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes discussed in Note 7 to the financial statements. In addition, there was a gain on the foreign exchange associated with forward contracts in the three months ended March31, 2015 with no offsetting gain or loss in the current period resulting in an overall increase in foreign exchange expense of $0.7 million in the current fiscal year. These increases in other expenses were partially offset by an increase in other income of $1.2 million due to a licensing agreement that became effective in the current quarter. Other expense, net for the nine months ended March31, 2016 was $14.1 million as compared to $14.6 million for the nine months ended March31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $0.5 million, or 3%. Foreign currency losses decreased by $2.7 million due to losses being recorded in the nine months ended March31, 2015, driven mainly by volatility in the Swiss Franc against the U.S. Dollar in Octoberof 2014 and high volatility in the Swiss Franc against the Euro in Januaryof 2015. There has been less volatility in 24 the currencies in the current period resulting in the decreased loss year-over-year. In addition, because of a licensing agreement in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 there was a $1.1 million increase in other income as well as $0.3 million increase in interest income and gain on sales of investments. These increases were partially offset by losses on hedging activities of $1.9 million as compared to the same period in prior year due to increased hedging activities in the current year and month-to-month volatility of the Swiss Franc against the U.S. Dollar as well as higher interest expense of $0.7 million due to continued debt discount accretion. Provision for Income Taxes On a quarterly basis, the Company provides for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. Income tax expenses were $0.7 million and $2.3 million for the three and nine months ended March31, 2016, respectively, compared to income tax expenses of $0.5 million and $2.3 million for the three and nine months ended March31, 2015, respectively. The decrease in tax expense of $0.2 million for the three months ended March31, 2016, respectively, compared to the three months ended March31, 2015 was primarily related to a decrease in earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March31, 2016, we had $79.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $70.6 million in short-term investments, for a total of $149.8million. Refer to Note 7, Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements for discussion of the Convertible Notes. Based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that we will have sufficient cash resources and anticipated cash flows to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of March31, 2016, we had approximately $56.2 million of cash and cash equivalents at our foreign subsidiaries. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and unavailable for distribution in the form of dividends or otherwise. Accordingly, no provisions for U.S. income taxes have been provided thereon. We anticipate that we have adequate liquidity and capital resources for the next twelve months and do not anticipate the need to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries at March31, 2016. Our cash flows for the nine months ended March31, 2016 and 2015 are summarized as follows (in thousands): Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities in the nine months ended March31, 2016 was $13.6 million, as compared to $12.6 million used in operating activities in the nine months ended March31, 2015. Net cash provided by operating activities in the nine months ended March31, 2016 was primarily related to: Net loss was offset by non-cash items of $31.9 million related to depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, amortization and accretion of discount and premium on investments, amortization of debt issuance costs, accretion of interest on long-term debt, provision for doubtful accounts receivable and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; Decrease in restricted cash of $2.5 million due to releases of restrictions on cash related to bunker constructions during the year; Increase in accounts receivable of $10.3 million as a result of the timing of revenue transactions in the third quarter of fiscal 2016, which collections are expected in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016.; Increase in inventories of $11.3 million due to increases in purchases in fiscal year 2016 to support expected future sales and service needs that will begin to be utilized in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016; Increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $4.0 million primarily due to an increase in long-term accounts receivable of $5.6 million due to one customer with extended payment terms and several large revenue contracts 25 accounted for as capital leases as compared to the same period in prior year. This was partially offset by a decrease of $0.6 million due to the settlement of value-add taxes in foreign locations, reduction of other prepaids of $0.5 million due to the release of vendor advances and amortization of prepayments for the ASTRO tradeshow offset by new additions, and a reduction in prepaid benefit costs of $0.8 million due to the timing of payments; Increase in deferred revenue of $13.8 million primarily due to additional product revenue deferrals added during the period in excess of the amount of deferred product revenue recognized mainly due to the timing of the sale transactions in the current quarter; Increase in deferred cost of revenue of $1.9 million primarily due to the timing of inventory transfers to customers; Increase in accounts payable of $8.7 million primarily due to an increase in inventory purchasing activities in the first half of fiscal 2016 and timing of payments as there was more large value payment activity at the end of prior year as compared with the end of the third fiscal quarter of 2016; Increase in accrued liabilities of $1.3 million primarily related to an increase in legal accrual of $3.4 million due to the award of damages related to the Cowealth litigation as described in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements offset by a decrease in accrued bonuses of $2.1 million; and Increase in customer advances of $0.3 million due mainly to payments received for future revenue deliverables; Net cash used in operating activities in the nine months ended March31, 2015 was primarily related to: Net loss was offset by non-cash items of $33.7 million related to depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, amortization and accretion of discount and premium on investments, amortization of debt issuance costs, accretion of interest on long-term debt, recovery of doubtful accounts receivable and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; Increase in restricted cash of $1.6 million as a result of a revenue contract requiring us to pay for bunker construction; Decrease in accounts receivable of $7.4 million as a result of collections on customer accounts in excess of billings resulting from increased emphasis on collection efforts internally; Increase in inventories of $24.5 million due to increase in purchases to support expected future sales and service needs; Decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.1 million primarily due to the reduction of prepaid taxes of $1.5 million primarily in foreign locations due to settlements, a reduction in debt related costs of $1.2 million due to continued amortization, and a decrease in prepaid commissions of $1.0 million due to the conversion of deferred revenue into revenue in fiscal 2015. The decrease was offset by an increase in the prepaid benefits balance of $0.6 million due to the timing of payments; Increase in deferred revenue of $7.2 million primarily due the timing of service contract signing which resulted in more service contract deferrals as compared to prior period with a slight offset related to deferred system revenue which decreased due to additional installations of previously deferred systems; Decrease in deferred cost of revenue of $5.6 million due to additional installations of previously deferred systems; Decrease in accounts payable of $1.3 million due to lower billings as a result of timing; and Decrease in accrued liabilities of $8.1 million primarily related to the bonus accrual reduction of $10.4 million due to bonus payments made in the first fiscal quarter of 2015 offset by additional accrual for bonuses for the nine months ended March 31, 2015. Additionally, there was a decrease in interest payable of $1.4 million due to the timing of payments. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $3.6 million in deferred rent due to a renegotiated lease agreement. 26 Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $12.9 million for the nine months ended March31, 2016, which primarily consisted of purchases of short-term investments of $52.7 million and purchases of property and equipment of $5.9 million partially offset by sales and maturities of investments of $45.7 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $18.6 million for the nine months ended March31, 2015, which primarily consisted of sales and maturities of short-term investments of $94.4 million partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $5.9 million and purchases of investments of $69.9 million . Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the nine months ended March31, 2016 was $1.0 million which was a combination of $65.5 million in payments made to convertible note holders, partially offset by $64.6 million in proceeds from debt issuance, net of costs associated with our $70.0 million straight debt financing and related repurchase of $63.4 million of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes discussed in Note 7 to the financial statements. In addition, there were $3.0 million in proceeds from employee stock plans which was partially offset by $3.0 million taxes paid related to net share settlements of equity awards. Net cash provided by financing activities during the nine months ended March31, 2015 was $4.7million, attributable to $5.2million from proceeds from employee stock plans, partially offset by $0.5million of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors. These factors include but are not limited to the following: Revenue generated by sales of our products and service plans; Costs associated with our sales and marketing initiatives and manufacturing activities; Facilities, equipment and IT systems required to support current and future operations; Rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; Costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances of our products; Effects of competing technological and market developments; and Number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least 12months. If our cash and cash equivalents are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and marketing efforts. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended June30, 2015. There have been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the current quarter. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 27 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities. Actual results could therefore differ materially from those estimates if actual conditions differ from our assumptions. During the nine months ended March31, 2016 we considered our estimated corporate bonus accrual to be a critical accounting estimate. The Company s bonus accrual for each quarter is based on its performance against Company defined metrics: net revenue, adjusted EBITDA and gross orders to backlog. There have been no changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates, as discussed in PartII,Item 7 of our Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2015, which we believe are those related to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts and loss contingencies.Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amounts and par value) (Unaudited) (1) The condensed consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2016 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss (in thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Accuray Incorporated Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business Accuray Incorporated (together with its subsidiaries, the Company or Accuray ) is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of business in Sunnyvale, California. The Company designs, develops and sells advanced radiosurgery and radiation therapy systems for the treatment of tumors throughout the body. The Company has offices in the United States, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong and Japan and conducts its business worldwide. Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), pursuant to the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ).Certain information and note disclosures have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rulesand regulations.The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, which include only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. The results for the three months ended September30, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the fiscal year ending June30, 2017, or for any other future interim period or fiscal year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company s audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended June30, 2016 included in the Company s Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on August24, 2016. The Company s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to those audited consolidated financial statements and there have been no material changes to such policies. We reclassified the debt issuance costs from other assets in the prior year s condensed consolidated balance sheet to long-term debt to conform to the current quarter presentation upon the adoption of ASU No.2015-03 as discussed below. Recent Accounting Standard Update Not Yet Effective In June2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standard Update (ASU) No.2016-13 (ASU2016-13) Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held. This guidance will become effective for the Company beginning in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, with certain exceptions. Early adoption is permitted beginning in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In March2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.2016-09,Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718). The new guidance simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this standard are effective for annual periods beginning after December15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02,Leases (Topic 842). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. This ASU requires additional disclosures. The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December15, 2018. The ASU requires adoption based upon a modified retrospective transition approach. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet selected a transition method, has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 6 In January2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-01 (ASU2016-01) Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01changes accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, it clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. The guidance will become effective for the Company beginning in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, with certain exceptions. Early adoption is permitted for certain provisions. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU2014-09), to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of ASU 2014-09is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. ASU 2014-09is required to be adopted, using either of two methods: (i)retrospective to each prior reporting period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within ASU 2014-09; or (ii)retrospective with the cumulative effect of initially applying ASU 2014-09recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures as defined per ASU2014-09. On July9, 2015, the FASB approved a one year deferral of the effective period of ASU 2014-09. The standard will be effective for the Company for fiscal year 2019, but entities will be permitted to early adopt the standard as of the original effective date. The FASB issued supplemental adoption guidance and clarification to ASU2014-09in March2016, April2016 and May2016 within ASU 2016-08 Revenue From Contracts With Customers: Principal vs. Agent Considerations, ASU 2016-10 Revenue From Contracts with Customers: Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, and ASU 2016-12 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, respectively. The Company has not yet selected a transition method and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of these standards on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Use of Estimates The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements. Key estimates and assumptions made by the Company relate to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts, loss contingencies and corporate bonus expenses. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Concentration of Credit and Other Risks The Company s cash, cash equivalents and investments are deposited with several major financial institutions. At times, deposits in these institutions exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and does not believe that it is exposed to any significant risk of loss on these balances. For the three months ended September30, 2016, there were no customers that represented 10% or more of total net revenue. For the three months ended September 30, 2015, there was one customer that represented 15% of total net revenue. One customer accounted for 17% and 18% of the Company s total accounts receivable as of September 30, 2016, and June 30, 2016, respectively. Accounts receivable are typically not collateralized. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and maintains reserves for potential credit losses. Accounts receivable are deemed past due in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement. Accounts receivable balances are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts once collection efforts are unsuccessful. Single source suppliers presently provide the Company with several components. In most cases, if a supplier was unable to deliver these components, the Company believes that it would be able to find other sources for these components subject to any regulatory qualifications, if required. Revenue Recognition The Company earns revenue from the sale of products and related services. The Company records revenues net of any value added or sales tax. For arrangements with multiple elements, the Company allocates arrangement fees to products and services based 7 upon Vendor Specific Objective Evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value of the respective elements, Third-Party Evidence ( TPE ), or Best Estimate of Selling Price ( BESP ), using the relative selling price method. Product and Service Revenue The majority of product revenue is generated from sales of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. If the Company is responsible for installation, the Company recognizes revenue after installation and acceptance of the system. Otherwise, revenue is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. The Company offers systems with post-contract customer support ( PCS ), installation services, training and professional services. PCS includes planned and corrective maintenance services, software updates, bug fixes, as well as call-center support. Service revenue is generated primarily from PCS (warranty period services and post warranty services), installation services, training, parts and upgrades that are sold under service contracts and professional services. PCS revenue is deferred and recognized over the service period. Installation service revenue is recognized concurrently with system revenue. Training and professional service revenues that are not deemed essential to the functionality of the systems are recognized as such services are performed. Costs associated with service revenue are expensed when incurred, except when those costs are related to parts or system upgrades where revenue recognition has been deferred. In those cases, the costs are deferred and recognized over the period of revenue recognition. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share follows (in thousands): The potentially dilutive shares of the Company s common stock resulting from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units (RSU), Market Stock Units (MSU) and Performance Stock Units (PSU), and the purchase of shares under the Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP), as determined under the treasury stock method, are excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Additionally, the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February1, 2018 (the 3.50% Convertible Notes ) and the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ) due February1, 2018 (together, the Convertible Notes ) are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share only if their inclusion is dilutive. The following table sets forth all potentially dilutive securities excluded from the computation in the table above because their effect would have been anti-dilutive (in thousands): Outstanding Convertible Notes Diluted Share Impact The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes have an optional physical (share), cash or combination settlement feature and contain certain conditional conversion features. Due to the optional cash settlement feature and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash, the conversion shares underlying the outstanding principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, totaling approximately 3.9million shares were not included in the potentially diluted share count table above. The zero potentially 8 dilutive shares of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes as of September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, included in the table above are the result of the lower average share price, which was below the conversion price and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash. The number of premium shares included in the Company s diluted share count will vary with fluctuations in the Company s share price. Higher actual share prices result in a greater number of premium shares. Segment Information The Company has one operating and reporting segment (oncology systems group), which develops, manufactures and markets proprietary medical devices used in radiation therapy and radiosurgery for the treatment of cancer patients. The Company s Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Operating Decision Maker reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. The Company does not assess the performance of its individual product lines on measures of profit or loss, or asset based metrics. Therefore, the information below is presented only for revenues and long-lived tangible assets by geographic areas. Revenue by geographic region is based on the shipping addresses of the Company s customers. The following summarizes revenue by geographic region (in thousands): Information regarding geographic areas in which the Company has long lived tangible assets is as follows (in thousands): 2. Balance Sheet Components Financing receivables A financing receivable is a contractual right to receive money, on demand or on fixed or determinable dates, that is recognized as an asset in the Company s balance sheet. The Company s financing receivables, consisting of its accounts receivable with contractual maturities of more than one year and capital leases, totaled $7.0million and $7.6million at September30, 2016 and June30, 2016, respectively, and are included in Other Assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Of the $7.0million in financing receivables at September30, 2016, $3.3million are related to sales-type leases with customers while the remaining $3.7million are related to contractual maturities of more than one year. Of the $7.6million in financing receivables at June30, 2016, $3.5million are related to sales-type leases with customers while the remaining $4.1million related to contractual maturities of more than one year. Due to the homogenous nature of the leasing transactions, the Company manages them on an aggregate basis when assessing and monitoring credit risk. The Company evaluates the credit quality of an obligor at lease inception and monitors credit quality over the term of the underlying transactions. The Company performs a credit analysis for all new customers and reviews payment history, current order backlog, financial performance of the customers and other variables that augment or mitigate the inherent credit risk of a particular transaction. Such variables include the underlying value and liquidity of the collateral, the essential use of the equipment, the term of the lease and the inclusion of credit enhancements, such as guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits. Accounts rated as low risk typically have the equivalent of a Moody s rating of Baa3 or higher, while accounts rated as moderate risk generally have the equivalent of a Ba1 or lower. The Company classifies accounts as high risk when it considers the financing receivable to be impaired or when management believes there is a significant near-term risk of non-payments. As of September30, 2016, the sales-type lease portion of the financing receivables was rated at a moderate risk. The Company performed an assessment of the allowance for credit losses related to its financing receivables as of September30, 2016. Based upon such assessment, the Company did not record an allowance for credit losses related to such financing receivables as of September30, 2016 and June30, 2016, respectively. 9 A summary of the Company s financing receivables is presented as follows: Actual cash collections may differ from the contracted maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancing, or defaults. Future minimum lease payments to be received as of September30, 2016 are presented asfollows: Inventories Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): 10 Property and equipment, net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (inthousands): Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was $2.7million and $2.6million, respectively. 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill Activity related to goodwill consisted of the following (in thousands): In the second quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that there was no impairment to goodwill. The Company will continue to monitor its recorded goodwill for indicators of impairment. In the three months ended September 30, 2016, there were no indicators of impairment. Intangible Assets The Company s unamortized intangible assets associated with completed acquisitions at September30, 2016 and June30, 2015 are as follows (in thousands): The Company did not identify any triggering events that would indicate potential impairment of its definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets as of September30, 2016 and June30, 2016. Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 was $2.0 million and $2.0 million, respectively. The estimated future amortization expense of purchased intangible assets as of September30, 2016 is as follows (in thousands): 4. Foreign Exchange Instruments The Company utilizes foreign currency forward contracts with well-known financial institutions to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on certain intercompany balances and foreign currency denominated cash and customer receivables. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. These forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. Principal hedged currencies include the Euro, Japanese Yen, Swiss Franc, and U.S.Dollar. The periods of these forward contracts range up to approximately three months and the notional 11 amounts are intended to be consistent with changes in the underlying exposures. The Company intends to exchange foreign currencies for U.S.Dollars at maturity. There were no outstanding foreign currency forward contracts at the end of September30, 2016 and June30, 2016. The following table shows the effect of forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments and foreign currency transactions gains and losses, which were included in Other expense, net on the condensed consolidated statements of operations in three months ended September30: 5. Financial Instruments The Company considers all highly liquid investments held at major banks, certificates of deposit and other securities with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company classifies all of its investments as available-for-sale at the time of purchase because management intends that these investments are available for current operations and includes these investments on its balance sheet as short-term investments. Investments with original maturities longer than three months include commercial paper, U.S. agency securities, non-U.S. government securities and investment-grade corporate debt securities. Investments classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair market value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recorded based on specific identification of each security s cost basis. The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy contains three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level1 Unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for the identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. Level2 Other observable inputs available at the measurement date, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly, including: Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in non-active markets; Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; and Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by other observable market data. Level3 Unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated by observable market data and require the use of significant management judgment. These values are generally determined using pricing models for which the assumptions utilize management s estimates of market participant assumptions. 12 The following tables summarize the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by significant investment category for cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (in thousands): Certain investments in the table above are classified as having Level2 inputs because quoted prices in an active market are not readily accessible for those specific financial assets, or the Company may have relied on alternative pricing methods that do not rely exclusively on quoted prices to determine the fair value of the investments. The Company had investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of September30, 2016. The Company determined that (i)it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii)it is not likely that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company reviews its investments quarterly to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment. As of September30, 2016, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire carrying value of such investments and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three months ended September30, 2016. Contractual maturities of available-for-sale securities at September30, 2016 were as follows (inthousands): 13 The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities that were in a continuous unrealized loss position, but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired: The Company held a total of 10positions as of September30, 2016 and 11positions as of June30, 2016 that were in an unrealized loss position. Based on the Company s review of these securities, the Company believes it had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as of September30, 2016 and June30, 2016 because it does not intend to sell these securities and believes it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. Gross realized gains and gross realized losses were insignificant for the three months ended September30, 2016 and the year ended June30, 2016. Assets and Liabilities That Are Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis The Company s non-marketable equity investments and non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant, and equipment (measured at fair value if a write-down is recognized) are evaluated for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. The fair value measurement of non-marketable equity investments is performed by a third-party analyst using Level3 inputs. Non-financial assets such as identified intangible assets acquired in connection with an acquisition are measured at fair value using Level3 inputs, which include discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, when there is limited market activity and the determination of fair value requires significant judgment and estimates. In addition, in evaluating the fair value of goodwill impairment, further corroboration is obtained using our market capitalization. The Company did not record any impairment charges for non-marketable equity investments and non-financial asset in the three months ended September30, 2016. The long-term debt is measured on a non-recurring basis using Level2 inputs based upon observable inputs of the Company s underlying stock price and the time value of the conversion option, since an observable quoted price of the Convertible Notes is not readily available. The following table summarizes the carrying values and estimated fair values of our short-term and long-term debt (in thousands): The short-term and long-term debt is measured on a non-recurring basis using Level 2 inputs based upon observable inputs of the Company s underlying stock price and the time value of the conversion option, since an observable quoted price of the Convertible Notes is not readily available. 14 6. Commitments and Contingencies The Company s contractual obligations were presented in the Annual Report on Form10-K for the previous annual reporting period ended June30, 2016. As discussed in Note 8, in August 2016, we settled the remaining approximately $36.6 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and accrued interest for $37.3 million in cash. In addition, we signed a lease extension in October 2016 on our Madison, Wisconsin facility through 2023, which would have expired in 2018. Except for the change in debt and lease obligations, there has been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three months ended September 30, 2016. Litigation From time to time, the Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company records a provision for a loss when it believes that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Currently, management believes the Company does not have any probable and reasonably estimable losses related to any current legal proceedings and claims. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, management does not believe that an adverse determination with respect to any of these claims would individually or in the aggregate materially and adversely affect the Company s financial condition or operating results. For certain legal proceedings, management believes that there is a reasonable possibility that material losses may be incurred; however, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate a range of reasonably possible losses with respect to these matters. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Company s control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, the Company could incur significant charges related to legal matters that could have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Rotary Systems On April28, 2011, a former supplier to TomoTherapy, Rotary Systems Incorporated ( Rotary Systems ), filed suit in Minnesota state court, Tenth Judicial District, Anoka County, against TomoTherapy alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, as well as several other counts alleging various theories of injury. Rotary Systems alleges TomoTherapy misappropriated Rotary Systems trade secrets pertaining to a component previously purchased from Rotary Systems, which TomoTherapy now purchases from a different supplier. The suit alleged TomoTherapy improperly supplied the alleged trade secrets to its present supplier, Dynamic Sealing TechnologiesInc. (also a named defendant in the suit). Rotary Systems made an unspecified claim for damages of greater than $50,000. TomoTherapy moved to dismiss the case and, on August29, 2011, the court granted the motion to dismiss with respect to all counts other than the count alleging misappropriation of trade secrets. On May21, 2012, the court gave Rotary Systems sixty days to identify the alleged trade secrets with specificity or face dismissal of its claim with prejudice. The court held a hearing on September20, 2012 to review Rotary Systems amended complaint. TomoTherapy filed a motion for summary judgment on the trade secret claim, the court ruled in favor of TomoTherapy on December5, 2013, and Rotary Systems appealed. On December22, 2014, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the district court s dismissal of Rotary Systems trade secrets claim and remanded it to the district court but affirmed the dismissal of Rotary Systems other claims. In late October2015, a final scheduling order was confirmed for the remanded claims and the parties engaged in the process of conducting discovery. On April19, 2016, the parties entered into a written settlement agreement resolving the lawsuit. A stipulation of dismissal dismissing all claims by all parties with prejudice was filed with the court and the court entered an order on July12, 2016 dismissing the case withprejudice. 15 Cowealth Medical On February27, 2014, Cowealth Medical HoldingCo.,Ltd. ( Cowealth ), Accuray s former distributor in China, submitted a request for binding arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerce International Court of Arbitration ( ICC ) alleging, among other matters, that Accuray breached its distributor agreement with Cowealth by wrongfully terminating Cowealth as its distributor and misappropriated certain of Cowealth s confidential information. Cowealth was seeking damages of approximately $170.0million and injunctive relief. Accuray filed counterclaims for damages of approximately $35.0million. Accuray s answer and counterclaim were submitted to the ICC on May12, 2014, and Cowealth served its reply on June27, 2014. A hearing was held in Hong Kong between January26, 2015 and February6, 2015. The parties filed closing submissions and reply closing submissions in March2015. On October29, 2015, the ICC ruled that Accuray was liable for certain damages and awarded Cowealth approximately $3.4million. On November27, 2015, Cowealth applied for a correction to the award to revise the amount of damages upwards to approximately $5.5million. On January21, 2016, the arbitrator granted Cowealth s application for a correction on the grounds that the original award amount was a clerical error on the part of the arbitrator. Interest on the final award amount was determined to accrue at a rate of 5% per annum starting 30days after the date the corrected award was issued until payment. Accordingly, management recorded a charge of $3.4million for the first fiscal quarter ending September30, 2015, and an additional $2.1million for the second fiscal quarter ending December30, 2015. The parties filed cost submissions and reply cost submissions in December2015. The ICC released the final award on February12, 2016, which dealt with the parties claims for costs of the arbitration. Under the final award, the arbitrator awarded costs to Cowealth at a net amount of $2.4million and rejected all other claims and requests. Prior to the ruling of the ICC, no accrual was established in the Company s consolidated financial statements because management did not believe the likelihood of an award of damages or costs of arbitration to Cowealth were probable or estimable. In addition, the Company won several of its counterclaims including the right to be assigned the existing service contracts between Cowealth and Accuray customers, transfer to Accuray any regulatory clearances, licenses or permits obtained and held for the purposes of selling the CyberKnife System in China and deliver any consigned parts in their possession. Software License Indemnity Under the terms of the Company s software license agreements with its customers, the Company agrees that in the event the software sold infringes upon any patent, copyright, trademark, or any other proprietary right of a third-party, it will indemnify its customer licensees against any loss, expense, or liability from any damages that may be awarded against its customer. The Company includes this infringement indemnification in all of its software license agreements and selected managed services arrangements. In the event the customer cannot use the software or service due to infringement and the Company cannot obtain the right to use, replace or modify the license or service in a commercially feasible manner so that it no longer infringes, then the Company may terminate the license and provide the customer a refund of the fees paid by the customer for the infringing license or service. The Company has not recorded any liability associated with this indemnification, as it is not aware of any pending or threatened actions that represent probable losses as of September30, 2016. 7. Share-Based Compensation The following table summarizes the share-based compensation charges included in the Company s condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss (in thousands): 8. Debt First Lien Senior Secured Term Loan due January2021 (Secured Loan) On January11, 2016, the Company closed a $70.0 million first lien senior secured debt financing agreement with Cerberus Business Finance, LLC, an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management, L.P (the Secured Loan ). As required by the terms of the financing, upon the closing of the financing in January2016 , the Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the financing to repurchase approximately $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for $66.6 million in cash. In August 2016, the Company settled the remaining approximately $36.6 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% 16 Convertible Senior Notes and accrued interest for $37.3million in cash.. The Secured Loan bears interest at a variable rate per annum equal to, at the Company s option, (i)the LIBOR Rate for one month plus an applicable margin of 7.00% (subject to a LIBOR Rate floor of 1.00% per annum), or (ii)a Reference Rate, which is the higher of 1) 3.25%, 2) Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5%, 3) the LIBOR rate for 1 month plus 1%, and 4) the US Prime Rate as published in the Wall Street Journal, plus an applicable margin of 4.75% per annum. The loan is repayable in consecutive quarterly installments of $875,000 with the final payment due on the Final Maturity Date. The Secured Loan matures on the earlier of: (i) January 11, 2021 and (ii) the date that is 120 days prior to the scheduled maturity date of the 3.5% Convertible Senior Notes maturing February 1, 2018 unless the Company has set aside specifically identifiable funds raised from new common equity or new debt equal to the then-outstanding principal amount of the 3.5% Convertible Senior Notes. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $65.5 million. The offering costs of $3.1 million and the initial purchaser s discount and commission of $1.4 million (both of which are recorded in Long-term Debt) are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The Secured Loan is secured by first-priority liens on substantially all the assets of the Company. The covenants in the Secured Loan include: Secured leverage defines the maximum amount of secured leverage that can be on the Company s books at a given point in time calculated by the total secured debt divided by the last twelve months adjusted EBITDA; Total leverage defines the maximum amount of total leverage that can be on the Company s books at a given point in time calculated by the total debt divided by the last twelve months adjusted EBITDA; Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio designed to ensure that the Company s cash fixed charges are met with adequate free cash flow based on a minimum coverage ratio to be set and maintained; Minimum EBITDA defines the minimum amount of adjusted EBITDA the Company must maintain and generate; Maximum CapEx defines how much cash the Company can use annually to pursue capital projects, purchase PP&amp;E and other related activities during the life of the loan; and Affirmative and negative covenants defines reporting requirements, subsidiary asset restrictions, dividend distribution and repayment requirements among other general requirements. The Company may, at its election, repay the Secured Loan at any time and if so, the Company will be required to pay a prepayment premium of 2% if the Secured Loan is repaid or accelerated within the first year on the amount repaid and 1% if the Secured Loan is repaid or accelerated within the second year on the amount repaid. 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August2016 On August1, 2011, the Company issued the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes to certain qualified institutional buyers, or QIBs. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), or Rule144A. The net proceeds from the $100million offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $96.1million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission (which are recorded in Long-term Debt) were amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes bore interest at a rate of 3.75% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, beginning on February1, 2012. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes matured on August1, 2016. A portion of these notes were redeemed in January2016, and the remainder of these notes was redeemed on August1, 2016, as discussed further below. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes may convert their 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes at any time on or after May1, 2016 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to May1, 2016, holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes could convert their 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2011, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for each trading day of that Note 17 Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; (3)if the Company calls any or all of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the redemption date; or (4)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 33rdbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate was 105.5548 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $9.47 per share of the Company s common stock). In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes was $75.9million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 10%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $24.1million. A portion of the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the offering costs totaling $0.9million was allocated to the equity conversion component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes using the effective interest method over five years. In January2016, the Company repurchased approximately $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for $66.6 million in cash. As $63.4 million of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were settled in cash, a total of 6.7 million potentially dilutive shares are no longer potentially outstanding from an EPS perspective, these shares were already noted in Note 1 above as being excluded due to being anti-dilutive in the current fiscal quarter of 2016. Following such transactions, approximately $44.7 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes, approximately $36.6 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and approximately $70.3 million of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes remained outstanding. The Company recorded a charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 of approximately $1.0 million associated with the repurchase of the notes. On August1, 2016, the Company settled the remaining 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for approximately $36.6million aggregate principal amount and $0.7million accrued interest for approximately $37.3million in cash. In settling the notes for cash, during the January2016 retirement as further described above and the August2016 transaction, the Company avoided the issuance of approximately 10.6million new common equity shares, representing a potential dilution of approximately 13percent as of September30,2016. 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 In February2013, the Company issued $115.0million aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes to certain QIBs. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $110.5million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission (which are recorded in Long-term Debt) are both being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, which began on August1, 2013. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes will mature on February1, 2018, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. In April2014, through a series of transactions, the Company refinanced approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the Company s new 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ). The 3.50% Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes at any time until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. The 3.50% Convertible Notes are convertible, as described below into common stock of the Company at an initial conversion rate equal to 187.6877 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment. 18 Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes who convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with guidance in ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC815-15, Embedded Derivatives, the Company determined that the embedded conversion components of the 3.50% Convertible Note do not require bifurcation and separate accounting. The remaining $44.7million principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Note has been recorded in Long-term Debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September30, 2016. 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 On April17, 2014, the Company entered into note exchange agreements with certain holders (the Participating Holders ) of the 3.50% Convertible Notes to refinance approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. Pursuant to the note exchange agreements, the Company also paid the Participating Holders an aggregate of approximately $0.4million in cash in connection with such transactions. The principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes refinanced for each $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $1,000 and the amount in cash paid per $1,000 principal amount of such 3.50% Convertible Notes delivered was determined in individual negotiations between the Company and each Participating Holder. The SeriesA Convertible Notes have the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the 3.50% Convertible Notes, except that the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at the Company s option. The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their Securities at any time on or after November1, 2017 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to November1, 2017, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their Securities only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2014, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes for each trading day of that Securities Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; or (3)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 17thbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate is 187.6877 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of the Company s common stock). The conversion rate, and thus the conversion price, is subject to adjustment as further described below. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes who convert their Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $62.5million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 7%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for 19 a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $7.9million. In addition, the portion of the cash amount paid to the Participating Holders totaling $0.4 million was allocated to the debt discount with the remaining $47,000 to the equity component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes using the effective interest method through the maturity in February2018. The following table presents the carrying values of all Convertible Notes and notes issued pursuant to the Secured Loan (collectively, Notes ) as of September30, 2016 (in thousands): A summary of interest expense on the Notes is as follows (in thousands): 9. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of net loss, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments, changes in foreign currency exchange rate translation and net changes related to defined benefit pension plan. These components are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of stockholders equity. The foreign currency translation adjustment results from those subsidiaries not using the United States dollar as their functional currency since the majority of their economic activities are primarily denominated in their applicable local currency. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities related to these operations are translated at the current exchange rates at the end of each period. The resulting cumulative translation adjustments are recorded directly to the accumulated other comprehensive loss account in stockholders equity. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period. The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the equity section of the balance sheets are as follows (in thousands): 10. Subsequent Event On October19, 2016, the Company signed a lease extension for its Madison, Wisconsin facility from 2018 through 2023. The Company s lease payments will decrease slightly under terms of the lease extension, which is effective immediately through the original expiry date of 2018 and beyond. 20 Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition as of September30, 2016 and results of operations for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.Statements made in this Form10-Q report that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements in this report relate, but are not limited, to: our future results of operations and financial position, including the sufficiency of cash resources and expected cash flows to fund future operations, including the next 12 months; our backlog and expectations regarding age-outs, cancellations of contracts and foreign currency impacts, the effects of our process improvements on age-outs, backlog and revenue; expected uses of cash during fiscal 2017; the anticipated drivers of our future capital requirements; the success of the multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC for the CyberKnife Systems, its impact on our business; our expectations regarding the factors that will impact long-term success, sales, competitive positioning and long-term success for our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; our belief that TomoTherapy Systems offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market; the anticipated risks associated with our foreign operations and fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies as well as our ability to mitigate such risks; the sufficiency of our cash, cash flow equivalents and investments to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures and our business strategy, plans and objectives.Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, may, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations, including those risks discussed in this quarterly report, in particular under the heading Risk Factors in PartII,Item 1A as well as the risks detailed in PartI,Item 1A of the Company s annual report on Form10-K for fiscal year 2016 , and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made and are based on information available to the Company at the time those statements are made and/or management s good faith belief as of that time with respect to future events. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual performance or results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. In this report, Accuray, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Accuray Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Overview Products and Markets We are a radiation oncology company that develops, manufactures, sells and supports precise, innovative treatment solutions which set the standard of care, with the aim of helping patients live longer, better lives. Our leading-edge technologies, the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, and Radixact, the next generation TomoTherapy System platform are designed to deliver advanced radiation therapy including radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy, intensity modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation therapy and adaptive radiation therapy tailored to the specific needs of each patient. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complementary offerings serving largely separate patient populations treated by the same medical specialty, radiation oncology, with advanced capabilities that offer increased treatment flexibility to meet the needs of an expanding patient population including patients requiring retreatment with radiation therapy. The CyberKnife Systems The CyberKnife Systems are robotic systems designed to deliver radiosurgery treatments to cancer tumors anywhere in the body. The CyberKnife Systems are the only dedicated, full-body robotic radiosurgery systems on the market. Radiosurgery is an alternative to traditional surgery for tumors and is performed on an outpatient basis in one to five treatment sessions. It enables the treatment of patients who typically might not otherwise be treated with radiation, who may not be good candidates for surgery, or who desire non-surgical treatments. The use of radiosurgery with CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors throughout the body has grown significantly in recent years, but currently only a small portion of the patients who develop tumors treatable with CyberKnife Systems are treated with these systems. A determination of when it may or may not be appropriate to use a CyberKnife System for treatment is at the discretion of the treating physician and depends on the specific patient. However, the CyberKnife Systems are generally not used to treat (1)very large tumors, which are considerably wider than the radiation beam that can be delivered by CyberKnife Systems, (2)diffuse wide-spread disease, as is often the case for late stage cancers, because they are not localized (though CyberKnife Systems might be used to treat a focal area of the disease) and (3)systemic diseases, like leukemia and lymphoma, which are not localized to an organ, but rather involve cells throughout the body. 21 Our CyberKnife M6 SeriesSystems have the option of: fixed collimator,Iris Variable Aperture Collimator and/or multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC. The InCise MLC is designed specifically for the M6 Series. With the addition of the InCise MLC, clinicians can deliver the same precise radiosurgery treatments they have come to expect with the CyberKnife System, faster and for a wider range of tumor types. The addition of the multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC, now makes it faster and more efficient to treat a wider range of tumor types with the CyberKnife M6, including larger tumors and those with multiple sites of disease. We believe the long term success of the CyberKnife Systems is dependent on a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our CyberKnife M6 Series Systems; Production and shipment of InCise MLCs that meet the standards that we, and our customers, expect in our products; Change in medical practice leading to utilization of stereotactic body radiosurgery more regularly as an alternative to surgery or other treatments; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the benefits of radiosurgery conducted with the CyberKnife Systems; Continued evolution in clinical studies demonstrating the safety, efficacy and other benefits of using the CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors in various parts of the body; Continued advances in our technology that improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of the CyberKnife Systems; Receipt of regulatory approvals in various countries which are expected to improve access to radiosurgery with the CyberKnife Systems in such countries; Medical insurance reimbursement policies that cover CyberKnife System treatments; and Our ability to expand sales of CyberKnife Systems in countries throughout the world where we do not currently sell CyberKnife Systems. TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems The TomoTherapy Systems are advanced, fully integrated and versatile radiation therapy systems for the treatment of a wide range of cancer types. The TomoTherapy Systems are specifically designed for image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IG-IMRT). The TomoTherapy System is cleared for sale by the FDA and in most major markets globally. The TomoThereapy Systems include the TomoTherapy H SeriesSystems with configurations of TomoH, TomoHD and TomoHDA. Based on a CT scanner platform, the systems provide continuous delivery of radiation from 360 degrees around the patient, or delivery from clinician-specified beam angles. These unique features, combined with daily 3D image guidance, enable physicians to deliver highly accurate, individualized dose distributions which precisely conform to the shape of the patient s tumor while minimizing dose to normal, healthy tissue, resulting in fewer side effects for patients. The TomoTherapy Systems are capable of treating all standard radiation therapy indications including breast, prostate, lung and head and neck cancers, in addition to complex and novel treatments such as total marrow irradiation. Radiation therapy has been widely available and used in developed countries for decades, though many developing countries do not currently have a sufficient number of radiation therapy systems to adequately treat their domestic cancer patient populations. The number of radiation therapy systems in use and sold each year is currently many times larger than the number of radiosurgery systems. The new Radixact System is the next generation TomoTherapy platform and is currently approved in the US and Europe. The Radixact System is a new, smart system with integrated Accuray Precision treatment planning software and the new iDMS Data Management System. The Radixact System leverages the TomoTherapy System s efficient daily low-dose fan beam MVCT image guidance and unique ring gantry architecture, delivering precise radiation treatments for more patients, faster, with simpler, more automated workflows. We believe the TomoTherapy Systems and the Radixact System offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market. We believe our ability to capture more sales will be influenced by a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our TomoTherapy Systems and adoption of the Radixact System in markets where it is available; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the unique benefits of radiation therapy using TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems because of their ring gantry architecture and ability to deliver treatment from 360 degrees around the patient; 22 Advances in our technology which improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems; Greater awareness among doctors of the now-established reliability of TomoTherapy Systems; Our ability to expand sales of TomoTherapy Systems in countries throughout the world; and Our ability to scale up commercial launch of the Radixact System in those markets where it is approved. 23 Sale of Our Products Generating revenue from the sale of our systems is a lengthy process. Selling our systems, from first contact with a potential customer to a signed sales contract that meets our backlog criteria (as discussed below) varies significantly and generally spans between six months and two years. The length of time between receipt of a signed contract and revenue recognition is generally governed by the time required by the customer to build, renovate or prepare the treatment room for installation of the system. In the United States, we primarily market directly to customers, including hospitals and stand-alone treatment facilities, through our sales organization and we also market to customers through sales agents and group purchasing organizations. Outside the United States, we market to customers directly and through distributors and sales agents. In addition to our offices in the United States, we have sales and service offices in many countries in Europe, Japan and other countries in Asia, South America, and throughout the world. Key Metrics Backlog For orders that cover both products and services, only the portion of the order that is recognizable as product revenue is reported as backlog. The portion of the order that is recognized as service revenue (for example, post-contract customer support (PCS), installation, training and professional services) is not included in reported backlog. Product backlog totaled $407.5million as of September30, 2016 compared to $405.9 million as of June30, 2016. In order for the product portion of a CyberKnife, TomoTherapy or Radixact System sales agreement to be counted as backlog, it must meet the following criteria: The contract is signed and properly executed by both the customer and us. A customer purchase order that is signed and incorporates the terms of our contract quote will be considered equivalent to a signed and executed contract; The contract has either cleared all its contingencies or contains no contingencies when signed; We have received a minimum deposit or a letter of credit; the sale is a direct channel sale to a government entity, or the product has shipped to a customer with credit sufficient to cover the minimum deposit; The specific end customer site has been identified by the customer in the written contract or written amendment; For orders in our Latin America region, unless the system has already shipped and collection is reasonably assured, we request supporting evidence that the end customer has commenced construction to place our products if a site does not already exist; and Less than 2.5 years have passed since the contract met all the criteria above. Although our backlog includes only contractual agreements with our customers for the purchase of CyberKnife Systems, TomoTherapy Systems, Radixact System and related upgrades, we cannot provide assurance that we will convert backlog into recognized revenue due primarily to factors outside of our control. The amount of backlog recognized into revenue is primarily impacted by three items: cancellations, age-outs and foreign currency fluctuations. Orders could be cancelled for reasons including, without limitation, changes in customers needs or financial condition, changes in government or health insurance reimbursement policies, or changes to regulatory requirements. In addition to cancellations, after 2.5 years, if we have not been able to recognize revenue on a contract, we remove the revenue associated with the contract from backlog and the order is considered aged out. Contracts may age-out for many reasons, including but not limited, inability of the customer to pay, inability of the customer to adapt their facilities to accommodate our products in a timely manner, or inability to timely obtain licenses necessary for customer facilities or operation of our equipment. Our backlog also includes amounts not denominated in U.S. Dollars and therefore fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar as compared to other currencies will impact backlog. Generally, strengthening in the U.S. Dollar will negatively impact backlog. 24 Gross orders are defined as the sum of new orders recorded during the period adjusted for any revisions to existing orders during the period. Net product orders are defined as gross product orders less cancellations, age-outs and foreign exchange adjustments. Gross orders decreased by $14.6million for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to the three months ended September30, 2015. This was a result of a decrease of $19.2million in new system order volume compared to the same prior year period. The CyberKnife System order volume drove the decrease for this period and was partially offset by an increase in order volume for the TomoTherapy System and upgrade orders which increased by $4.6million in the three months ended September30, 2016 as compared to the same prior year period. Net orders decreased by $7.6million for the three months ended September30, 2016, as compared to the three months ended September30, 2015, resulting from the decrease in gross orders of $14.6million as well as an increase of $0.5 million in cancellations and a decrease of $0.3 million due to foreign currency impact as compared to the prior year. These decreases were partially offset by fewer age-outs of $7.8 million compared to the same prior year period. There were age-outs of $10.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, a decrease of $7.8 million from the prior year period due to fewer systems exceeding the 2.5 year criteria specified above. The age-outs of $18.5 million for the three months ended September 30 2015 included $5.3 million of age-ins which represent orders that have previously aged-out but have been taken to revenue in the current period. Age-ins offset the gross amount of age-outs in a particular period. There were cancellations of $3.5 million and $3.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. Currency impacts resulted in an increase in net orders of $1.0 million and $1.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Currently, we expect age-outs in the second quarter of this fiscal year to be approximately $21.0 million as compared to $10.7 million in age-outs recorded during the three months ended September30, 2016. 25 Results of Operations Three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 (a) Expressed as a percentage of total net revenue, except for product and services gross profits which are expressed as a percentage of related product and services revenue. Net Revenue Product Net Revenue . Product net revenue decreased by $4.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, primarily due to a decrease of $3.0 million revenue from new system sales resulting from product and channel mix as we had fewer units of the CyberKnife system taken to revenue as compared to the same period in the prior year, which was partially offset by an increase in unit sales of the TomoTherapy system as compared to the same period in the prior year. As our CyberKnife systems generally have a higher average sale price, the overall net product revenue decreased year-over-year. In addition, there was a decrease of $1.4 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. Services Net Revenue . Services net revenue increased by $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase was driven by increased installation revenue of $1.2 million and a slight increase in training revenue of $0.1 million. Percentage of net revenue by geographic region, based on the shipping location of our customers, is as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $45.9 million and $44.3 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and represented 53% and 50% of our net revenue during these periods, respectively. 26 Gross Profit Overall gross profit for the three months ended September30, 2016, decreased $2.6 million, or 8%, as compared to the three months ended September30, 2015. Product gross profit decreased 28%, or $4.7 million, primarily due to the decrease in systems taken to revenue as well as lower margins due to product and channel mix. Service gross profit increased 13%, or $2.1 million, as a result of higher service revenues of $1.3 million driven by increased installation and training revenues, as well as decreased service costs of $0.9 million resulting from reductions in departmental spending due to headcount decreases and lower parts utilization. Research and Development Research and development expenses were $12.2 million in the three months ended September30, 2016 as compared to $14.3 million in the three months ended September30, 2015, which represents a decrease of $2.1 million, or 14%. The decrease was primarily due to a $1.3 million decrease in consulting fees as a result of completion of roadmap development projects and decreased compensation related expenses of $0.3 million due to lower headcount and delays in hiring partially offset by higher stock-based compensation expense as compared with the prior fiscal period. Additionally, there was a decrease of $0.5million in IT and facilities allocated expenses related to revised allocation rates and headcount in fiscal year 2017. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended September30, 2016 were $14.3 million as compared to $13.4 million for the three months ended September30, 2015, which represents an increase of $0.9 million, or 7%. The increase was primarily because of a $1.7 million higher marketing related expenses driven primarily by the timing of tradeshows and higher consulting expenses of $0.3million related to new collaboration agreements and higher IT and facilities allocated expenses of $0.1million related to revised allocation rates and headcount in fiscal year 2017. These increases were offset by a decrease in compensation costs of $1.2 million, which were primarily driven by lower commissions. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the three months ended September30, 2016 were $11.3 million as compared to $13.4 million for the three months ended September30, 2015, which represents a decrease of $2.1 million, or 15%. This decrease was mainly attributable to $3.2 million in lower legal fees associated with Cowealth and Rotary settlements in the first fiscal quarter of 2016 as described in Note 6 to the financial statements. In addition, personnel related expenses increased $0.4 million due to higher stock-based compensation as compared to the same period in the prior year, as well as higher IT and facilities allocated expenses of $0.6million related to revised allocation rates and headcount in fiscal year 2017. Tax and insurance expenses increased by $0.2 million primarily as a result of the release of tax accruals due to statute expirations in the prior year. Other Expense, net Other expense, net for the three months ended September30, 2016 was $4.0 million as compared to $5.1 million for the three months ended September30, 2015, which represents a decrease of $1.1 million, or 21%. There was a loss on the foreign exchange associated with forward contracts in the three months ended September30, 2015 with no offsetting gain or loss in the current period resulting in an overall decrease in foreign exchange expense of $0.6 million in the current fiscal year. In addition, there was a decrease in interest expense of $0.5 million due to the settlement of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes in the current quarter. Provision for Income Taxes On a quarterly basis, the Company provides for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. Income tax benefits were $0.6 million for the three months ended September30, 2016, compared to income tax expenses of $0.7 million for the three months ended September30, 2015. The decrease in tax expense of $1.3 million for the three months ended September30, 2016 compared to the three months ended September30, 2015 was primarily related to the release of accruals for uncertain tax positions in our Swiss subsidiary. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company recognized a tax benefit of approximately $1.4 million as a result of the completion of tax audits by the Swiss authorities for the period from fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources At September30, 2016, we had $83.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $40.8 million in short-term investments, for a total of $124.4million. Refer to Note 8, Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements for discussion of the Convertible Notes. Based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that we will have sufficient cash resources and anticipated cash flows to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. 27 As of September30, 2016, we had approximately $45.6 million of cash and cash equivalents at our foreign subsidiaries. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and unavailable for distribution in the form of dividends or otherwise. Accordingly, no provisions for U.S. income taxes have been provided thereon. We anticipate that we have adequate liquidity and capital resources for the next twelve months and do not anticipate the need to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries at September30, 2016. Our cash flows for the three months ended September30, 2016 and 2015 are summarized as follows (in thousands): Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities in the three months ended September30, 2016 was $6.4 million, as compared to $12.3million provided by operating activities in the three months ended September30, 2015. Net cash used in operating activities in the three months ended September30, 2016 was primarily related to: Net loss was offset by non-cash items of $9.7 million related to depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, amortization and accretion of discount and premium on investments, amortization of debt issuance costs, accretion of interest on long-term debt, provision for doubtful accounts receivable and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; Decrease in restricted cash of $0.4 million due to releases of restrictions on cash related to VAT related guarantees during the quarter; Decrease in accounts receivable of $0.2 million as a result of the timing of revenue transactions in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, which collections are expected in the second fiscal quarter of 2017; Increase in inventories of $1.5 million due to increases in purchases in first quarter of fiscal year 2017 to support expected future Radixact sales and service needs that will begin to be utilized in the second fiscal quarter of 2017; Decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.5 million primarily due to a decrease in vendor advances of $0.7 million as well as a decrease in pre-payments for health benefits of $0.8 million; Decrease in deferred revenue of $2.6 million primarily due to deferred product revenue recognized mainly due to the timing of the sale transactions in the current quarter; Decrease in deferred cost of revenue of $0.1 million primarily due to the timing of inventory transfers to customers; Increase in accounts payable of $1.8 million primarily due to timing of payments as there was more large value payment activity at the end of the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016; Decrease in accrued liabilities of $4.9 million primarily related to a decrease in loan interest accrual of $1.1 million due to the settlement of the 3.75% Senior Notes in August 2016, a decrease in accrued severance of $1.6 million and a decrease in accruals for uncertain tax positions of $1.4 million as well as a decrease in commission and vacation accruals of $0.8 million; and Decrease in customer advances of $0.9 million due mainly to payments recognized against revenue deliverables; Net cash used in operating activities in the three months ended September30, 2015 was primarily related to: Net loss was offset by non-cash items of $10.1 million related to depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, amortization and accretion of discount and premium on investments, amortization of debt issuance costs, accretion of interest on long-term debt, recovery of doubtful accounts receivable and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; 28 Decrease in accounts receivable of $20.9 million as a result of collections on customer accounts in excess of billings resulting from significant sales transaction in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2015 that were collected in the first fiscal quarter of 2016; Increase in inventories of $7.2 million due to increase in purchases to support expected future sales and service needs; Decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.1 million primarily due to the settlement of value-add taxes of $1.6 million in foreign locations, a reduction in prepaid benefit costs of $0.5 million due to the timing of payments, and a decrease in prepaid maintenance of $0.5 million due to continued amortization partially offset by current period additions. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $1.2 million in prepaid commissions due payment for orders taken in the prior quarter, an increase of $1.0 million in prepaid insurance related to various insurance renewals in September 2015 of $1.5 million offset by continued amortization of $0.5 million and an increase of $0.3 million in short-term other receivables due to additional tax refunds and other pre-payments; Decrease in deferred revenue of $2.1 million primarily due to the timing of post-contract service contracts in the Americas and EIMEA regions; Increase in deferred cost of revenue of $0.7 million primarily due to the timing of inventory transfers to customers; Increase in accounts payable of $0.7 million primarily due to an increase in inventory purchasing activities in the first fiscal quarter of 2016; Slight decrease in accrued liabilities of $13,000 primarily related to accrued compensation with the bonus accrual reduction of $2.7 million due to bonus payments related to fiscal year 2015 made in the first fiscal quarter of 2016 offset by additional accrual for bonuses for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Additionally, there was a decrease in accrued severance of $0.8 million due to severance payments made in the first fiscal quarter of 2016 for terminations from fiscal 2015. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in legal accrual of $3.4 million due to the award of damages related to the Cowealth litigation as described in Footnotes 5 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements; and Increase in customer advances of $3.6 million due mainly to payments received for future revenue deliverables. Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $5.1 million for the three months ended September30, 2016, which primarily consisted of the sales and maturities of investments of $15.4 million, offset by the purchases of short-term investments of $9.0 million and purchases of property and equipment of $1.3 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $5.0 million for the three months ended September30, 2015, which primarily consisted of purchases of short-term investments of $15.4 million and purchases of property and equipment of $1.6 million partially offset by sales and maturities of investments of $12.0 million. Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended September30, 2016 was $35.5 million which was primarily due to $36.6 million in payments made to convertible note holders for the settlement of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements. In addition, there were $1.2 million in proceeds from employee stock plans which was partially offset by $0.1 million taxes paid related to net share settlements of equity awards. Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended September30, 2015 was $26,000, attributable to $1.0 million from proceeds from employee stock plans, offset by $1.1 million of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards. 29 Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors. These factors include but are not limited to the following: Revenue generated by sales of our products and service plans; Costs associated with our sales and marketing initiatives and manufacturing activities; Facilities, equipment and IT systems required to support current and future operations; Rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; Costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances of our products; Effects of competing technological and market developments; and Number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least 12months. If our cash and cash equivalents are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and marketing efforts. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended June30, 2016. As discussed in Note 8, in August 2016, we settled the remaining approximately $36.6 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and accrued interest for $37.3 million in cash. In addition, we signed a lease extension in October 2016 on our Madison, Wisconsin facility through 2023, which would have expired in 2018. Except for the change in debt and lease obligations, there have been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the current quarter. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September30, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities. Actual results could therefore differ materially from those estimates if actual conditions differ from our assumptions. During the three months ended September30, 2016, we considered our estimated corporate bonus accrual to be a critical accounting estimate. The Company s bonus accrual for each quarter is based on its performance against Company defined metrics: net revenue, adjusted EBITDA and gross orders to backlog. There have been no changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates, as discussed in PartII,Item 7 of our Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2016, which we believe are those related to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts and loss contingencies. 30Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amounts and par value) (Unaudited) (1) The condensed consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2016 has been derived from audited consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss (in thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Accuray Incorporated Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business Accuray Incorporated (together with its subsidiaries, the Company or Accuray ) is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of business in Sunnyvale, California. The Company designs, develops and sells advanced radiosurgery and radiation therapy systems for the treatment of tumors throughout the body. The Company has offices in the United States, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong and Japan and conducts its business worldwide. Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), pursuant to the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).Certain information and note disclosures have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rulesand regulations.The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, which include only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. The results for the three and six months ended December31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the fiscal year ending June30, 2017, or for any other future interim period or fiscal year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company s audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended June30, 2016 included in the Company s Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on August24, 2016. The Company s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to those audited consolidated financial statements and there have been no subsequent material changes to such policies. Recent Accounting Standard Update Not Yet Effective In November2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standard Update (ASU) No.2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash (ASU 2016-18), which provides amendments to current guidance to address the classification and presentation of changes in restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of these standards on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In August2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (ASU 2016-15), which clarifies the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standards on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In June2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-13 (ASU2016-13) Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. ASU 2016-13requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2021 and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, with certain exceptions. Early adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of the Company s fiscal year 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In March2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-09,Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718). The new guidance simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 6 In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02,Leases (Topic 842). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2020 and early adoption is permitted. The ASU requires adoption based upon a modified retrospective transition approach. Company has not yet selected a transition method, has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In January2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-01 (ASU2016-01) Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01changes accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, it clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2019 and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, with certain exceptions. Early adoption is permitted for certain provisions. The Company has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU2014-09), to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of ASU 2014-09is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. ASU 2014-09is required to be adopted, using either of two methods: (i)retrospective to each prior reporting period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within ASU 2014-09; or (ii)retrospective with the cumulative effect of initially applying ASU 2014-09recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures. In August2015, the FASB approved a one year deferral of the effective period of ASU 2014-09. The standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2019, but early adoption is permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The FASB issued supplemental adoption guidance and clarification to ASU2014-09 in 2016 and 2017. Preliminarily, the Company intends to adopt the new standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using the retrospective approach noted in (ii)above. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. While the Company s assessment is ongoing, it believes that the most significant impacts are related to the recognition of revenues for system sales and the potential deferral of sales commissions over a longer period. Due to the complexity of certain of the Company s customer contracts, the actual revenue recognition treatment required under the new standard for these arrangements may be dependent on contract-specific terms and vary in some instances. Use of Estimates The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements. Key estimates and assumptions made by the Company relate to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts, loss contingencies and corporate bonus expenses. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Concentration of Credit and Other Risks The Company s cash, cash equivalents and investments are deposited with several major financial institutions. At times, deposits in these institutions exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and does not believe that it is exposed to any significant risk of loss on these balances. For the three months ended December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, there were no customers that represented 10% or more of total net revenue. For the six months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, there were no customers that represented more than 10% and one customer that represented 11% of total net revenue, respectively. One customer accounted for 20% and 18% of the Company s total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2016 and Jun e 30, 2016, respectively. Accounts receivable are typically not collateralized. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and maintains reserves for potential credit losses. Accounts receivable are deemed past due in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement pursuant to which the accounts receivable are generated. Accounts receivable balances are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts once collection efforts are unsuccessful. 7 Single source suppliers presently provide the Company with several components. In most cases, if a supplier was unable to deliver these components, the Company believes that it would be able to find other sources at comparable prices for these components subject to any regulatory qualifications, if required. Revenue Recognition The Company earns revenue from the sale of products and related services. The Company records revenues net of any value added or sales tax. For arrangements with multiple elements, the Company allocates arrangement fees to products and services based upon Vendor Specific Objective Evidence (VSOE) of fair value of the respective elements, Third-Party Evidence (TPE), or Best Estimate of Selling Price (BESP), using the relative selling price method. Product and Service Revenue The majority of product revenue is generated from sales of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. If the Company is responsible for installation, the Company recognizes revenue after installation and acceptance of the system. Otherwise, revenue is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. The Company offers systems with post-contract customer support (PCS), installation services, training and professional services. PCS includes planned and corrective maintenance services, software updates, bug fixes, as well as call-center support. Service revenue is generated primarily from PCS (warranty period services and post warranty services), installation services, training, parts and upgrades that are sold under service contracts and professional services. PCS revenue is deferred and recognized over the service period. Installation service revenue is recognized concurrently with system revenue. Training and professional service revenues that are not deemed essential to the functionality of the systems are recognized as such services are performed. Costs associated with service revenue are expensed when incurred, except when those costs are related to parts or system upgrades where revenue recognition has been deferred. In those cases, the costs are deferred and recognized over the period of revenue recognition. Net Loss Per Common Share Basic and diluted net loss per share is computed by dividing net loss attributable to stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net loss per share follows (in thousands): The potentially dilutive shares of the Company s common stock resulting from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units (RSU), Market Stock Units (MSU) and Performance Stock Units (PSU), and the purchase of shares under the Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP), as determined under the treasury stock method, are excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Additionally, the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February1, 2018 (the 3.50% Convertible Notes ), the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ) due February1, 2018 (together, the Convertible Notes ) and the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes (the 3.75% Convertible Notes ) are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share only if their inclusion is dilutive. The following table sets forth all potentially dilutive securities excluded from the computation in the table above because their effect would have been anti-dilutive (in thousands): 8 Outstanding Convertible Notes Diluted Share Impact The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes have an optional physical (share), cash or combination settlement feature and contain certain conditional conversion features. Due to the optional cash settlement feature and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash, the conversion shares underlying the outstanding principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, totaling approximately 13.2million shares were not included in the potentially diluted share count table above. The zero potentially dilutive shares of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes as of December31, 2016, included in the table above are the result of the lower average share price, which was below the conversion price and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash. The number of premium shares included in the Company s diluted share count will vary with fluctuations in the Company s share price. Higher actual share prices result in a greater number of premium shares. The 3.75% Convertible Notes were fully settled in cash during Januaryand Augustof 2016 as further discussed in Note 8. As of December31, 2015, approximately 10.6 million shares related to the 3.75% Convertible Notes were excluded from the potentially dilutive share count table above due to the optional cash settlement feature and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash. In addition, there were no premium shares associated with the 3.75% Convertible Notes as the Company s average share price did not exceed the conversion price as of December 31, 2015. Segment Information The Company has one operating and reporting segment (oncology systems group), which develops, manufactures and markets proprietary medical devices used in radiation therapy and radiosurgery for the treatment of cancer patients. The Company s Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Operating Decision Maker reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. The Company does not assess the performance of its individual product lines on measures of profit or loss, or asset based metrics. Therefore, the information below is presented only for revenues and long-lived tangible assets by geographic areas. Revenue by geographic region is based on the shipping addresses of the Company s customers. The following summarizes revenue by geographic region (in thousands): Information regarding geographic areas in which the Company has long lived tangible assets is as follows (in thousands): 9 2. Balance Sheet Components Financing receivables A financing receivable is a contractual right to receive money, on demand or on fixed or determinable dates, that is recognized as an asset in the Company s balance sheet. The Company s financing receivables, consisting of its accounts receivable with contractual maturities of more than one year and capital leases, totaled $6.0million and $7.6million at December31, 2016 and June30, 2016, respectively, and are included in Other Assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Of the $6.0million in financing receivables at December31, 2016, $3.2million is related to sales-type leases with customers while the remaining $2.8million is related to contractual maturities of more than one year. Of the $7.6million in financing receivables at June30, 2016, $3.5million is related to sales-type leases with customers while the remaining $4.1million is related to contractual maturities of more than one year. Due to the homogenous nature of the leasing transactions, the Company manages them on an aggregate basis when assessing and monitoring credit risk. The Company evaluates the credit quality of an obligor at lease inception and monitors credit quality over the term of the underlying transactions. The Company performs a credit analysis for all new customers and reviews payment history, current order backlog, financial performance of the customers and other variables that augment or mitigate the inherent credit risk of a particular transaction. Such variables include the underlying value and liquidity of the collateral, the essential use of the equipment, the term of the lease and the inclusion of credit enhancements, such as guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits. Accounts rated as low risk typically have the equivalent of a Moody s rating of Baa3 or higher, while accounts rated as moderate risk generally have the equivalent of a Ba1 or lower. The Company classifies accounts as high risk when it considers the financing receivable to be impaired or when management believes there is a significant near-term risk of non-payments. As of December31, 2016, the sales-type lease portion of the financing receivables was rated at a moderate risk. The Company performed an assessment of the allowance for credit losses related to its financing receivables as of December31, 2016 and June30, 2016. Based upon such assessment, the Company did not record an allowance for credit losses related to such financing receivables as of December31, 2016 and June30, 2016, respectively. A summary of the Company s financing receivables is presented as follows (in thousands): 10 Actual cash collections may differ from the contracted maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancing, or defaults. Future minimum lease payments to be received as of December31, 2016 are presented asfollows (in thousands): Inventories Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): Property and equipment, net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (inthousands): Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three and six months ended December31, 2016 was $2.6million and $5.3million, respectively. Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three and six months ended December31, 2015 was $2.5million and $5.1million, respectively. 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill Activity related to goodwill consisted of the following (in thousands): 11 In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that there was no impairment to goodwill. The Company will continue to monitor its recorded goodwill for indicators of impairment. Intangible Assets The Company s unamortized intangible assets associated with completed acquisitions at December31, 2016 and June30, 2016 are as follows (in thousands): The Company did not identify any triggering events that would indicate potential impairment of its definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets as of December31, 2016 and June30, 2016. Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the three and six months ended December31, 2016 was $2.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the three and six months ended December31, 2015 was $2.0million and $4.0million, respectively. The estimated future amortization expense of purchased intangible assets as of December31, 2016 is as follows (in thousands): 4. Foreign Exchange Instruments The Company utilizes foreign currency forward contracts with well-known financial institutions to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on certain intercompany balances and foreign currency denominated cash and customer receivables. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. These forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. Principal hedged currencies include the Euro, Japanese Yen, Swiss Franc, and U.S.Dollar. The periods of these forward contracts range up to approximately three months and the notional amounts are intended to be consistent with changes in the underlying exposures. The Company intends to exchange foreign currencies for U.S.Dollars at maturity. There were no outstanding foreign currency forward contracts at the end of December31, 2016 and June30, 2016. The following table shows the effect of forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments and foreign currency transactions gains and losses, which were included in Other expense, net on the condensed consolidated statements of operations in three and six months ended December31, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in thousands): 12 5. Financial Instruments The Company considers all highly liquid investments held at major banks, certificates of deposit and other securities with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company classifies all of its investments as available-for-sale at the time of purchase because management intends that these investments are available for current operations and includes these investments on its balance sheet as short-term investments. Investments with original maturities longer than three months include commercial paper, U.S. agency securities, non-U.S. government securities and investment-grade corporate debt securities. Investments classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair market value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recorded based on specific identification of each security s cost basis. The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy contains three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level1 Unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for the identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. Level2 Other observable inputs available at the measurement date, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly, including: Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in non-active markets; Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; and Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by other observable market data. Level3 Unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated by observable market data and require the use of significant management judgment. These values are generally determined using pricing models for which the assumptions utilize management s estimates of market participant assumptions. The following tables summarize the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by significant investment category for cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (in thousands): 13 Certain investments in the table above are classified as having Level2 inputs because quoted prices in an active market are not readily accessible for those specific financial assets, or the Company may have relied on alternative pricing methods that do not rely exclusively on quoted prices to determine the fair value of the investments. The Company had investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of December31, 2016. The Company determined that (i)it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii)it is not likely that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company reviews its investments quarterly to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment. As of December31, 2016, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire carrying value of such investments and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three and six months ended December31, 2016. Contractual maturities of available-for-sale securities at December31, 2016 were as follows (inthousands): The following table summarizes the available-for-sale debt securities that were in a continuous unrealized loss position, but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired (in thousands): The Company held a total of 13positions as of December31, 2016 and 11positions as of June30, 2016 that were in an unrealized loss position. Based on the Company s review of these securities, the Company believes it had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as of December31, 2016 and June30, 2016 because it does not intend to sell these securities and believes it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. Gross realized gains and gross realized losses were insignificant for the three and six months ended December31, 2016 and the year ended June30, 2016. 14 Assets and Liabilities That are Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis The Company s non-marketable equity investments and non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant, and equipment (measured at fair value if a write-down is recognized) are evaluated for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. The fair value measurement of non-marketable equity investments is performed by a third-party analyst using Level3 inputs. Non-financial assets such as identified intangible assets acquired in connection with an acquisition are measured at fair value using Level3 inputs, which include discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, when there is limited market activity and the determination of fair value requires significant judgment and estimates. In addition, in evaluating the fair value of goodwill impairment, further corroboration is obtained using the Company s market capitalization. The Company did not record any impairment charges for non-marketable equity investments or non-financial assets in the three and six months ended December31, 2016. The following table summarizes the carrying values and estimated fair values of our short-term and long-term debt (in thousands): (1) The carrying value of the Secured Loan approximates fair value as the Company did not elect the fair value option for the Secured Loan. The Convertible Notes are measured on a non-recurring basis using Level2 inputs based upon observable inputs of the Company s underlying stock price and the time value of the conversion option, since an observable quoted price of the Convertible Notes is not readily available. 6. Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Agreements The Company leases office and manufacturing space under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through December2025. In October2016, the Company signed a lease extension on its Madison, Wisconsin facility through 2025, which would have expired in 2018. Accordingly, the Company s lease obligations increased from $39.9million as of June30, 2016 to $50.0million as of December31, 2016. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating lease agreements as of December31, 2016 are asfollows (in thousands): 15 The Company s contractual obligations were presented in the Annual Report on Form10-K for the previous annual reporting period ended June30, 2016. As discussed in Note 8, in August 2016, the Company settled the remaining approximately $36.6 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and accrued interest for $37.3 million in cash in its first fiscal quarter. During the second fiscal quarter, the Company repaid $5.0 million of its Secured Loan. Except for the change in lease obligations presented in the above table and a reduction of the Company s Notes and Secured Loan, there has been no significant changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three and six months ended December 31, 2016. Litigation From time to time, the Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company records a provision for a loss when it believes that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Currently, management believes the Company does not have any probable and reasonably estimable losses related to any current legal proceedings and claims. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, management does not believe that an adverse determination with respect to any of these claims would individually or in the aggregate materially and adversely affect the Company s financial condition or operating results. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Company s control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, the Company could incur significant charges related to legal matters that could have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Software License Indemnity Under the terms of the Company s software license agreements with its customers, the Company agrees that in the event the software sold infringes upon any patent, copyright, trademark, or any other proprietary right of a third-party, it will indemnify its customer licensees against any loss, expense, or liability from any damages that may be awarded against its customer. The Company includes this infringement indemnification in all of its software license agreements and selected managed services arrangements. In the event the customer cannot use the software or service due to infringement and the Company cannot obtain the right to use, replace or modify the license or service in a commercially feasible manner so that it no longer infringes, then the Company may terminate the license and provide the customer a refund of the fees paid by the customer for the infringing license or service. The Company has not recorded any liability associated with this indemnification, as it is not aware of any pending or threatened actions that represent probable losses as of December31, 2016. 7. Share-Based Compensation The following table summarizes the share-based compensation charges included in the Company s condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss (in thousands): 8. Debt First Lien Senior Secured Term Loan due January2021 (Secured Loan) On January11, 2016, the Company closed a $70.0 million first lien senior secured debt financing agreement with Cerberus Business Finance, LLC, an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management, L.P (the Secured Loan ). As required by the terms of the financing, upon the closing of the financing in January2016 , the Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the financing to repurchase approximately $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for $66.6 million in cash. In August 2016, the Company settled the remaining approximately $36.6 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and accrued interest for $37.3 million in cash. The Secured Loan bears interest at a variable rate per annum equal to, at the Company s option, (i) the LIBOR Rate for one month plus an applicable margin of 7.00% (subject to a LIBOR Rate floor of 1.00% per annum), or (ii) a Reference Rate, which is the higher of 1) 3.25%, 2) Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5%, 3) the LIBOR rate for 1 month plus 1%, and 4) the US Prime Rate as published in the Wall Street Journal, plus an applicable margin of 4.75% per annum. The loan is repayable in consecutive quarterly installments of $875,000 with the final payment due on the Final Maturity Date. The Secured Loan matures on the earlier of: (i) January 11, 2021 and (ii) the date that is 120 days prior to the scheduled maturity date of the 3.5% Convertible Senior Notes maturing February 1, 2018 unless the Company has set aside specifically identifiable funds raised from new common equity or new debt equal to the then-outstanding principal amount of the 3.5% Convertible Senior Notes. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $65.5 million. The offering costs of $3.1 million and the initial purchaser s discount and commission of $1.4 million (both of which are recorded in Long-term Debt) are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The Secured Loan is secured by first-priority liens on substantially all the assets of the Company. 16 The covenants in the Secured Loan include: Secured leverage defines the maximum amount of secured leverage that can be on the Company s books at a given point in time calculated by the total secured debt divided by the last twelve months adjusted EBITDA; Total leverage defines the maximum amount of total leverage that can be on the Company s books at a given point in time calculated by the total debt divided by the last twelve months adjusted EBITDA; Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio designed to ensure that the Company s cash fixed charges are met with adequate free cash flow based on a minimum coverage ratio to be set and maintained; Minimum EBITDA defines the minimum amount of adjusted EBITDA the Company must maintain and generate; Maximum CapEx defines how much cash the Company can use annually to pursue capital projects, purchase PP&amp;E and other related activities during the life of the loan; and Affirmative and negative covenants defines reporting requirements, subsidiary asset restrictions, dividend distribution and repayment requirements among other general requirements. The Company may, at its election, repay the Secured Loan at any time and if so, the Company will be required to pay a prepayment premium of 2% of the outstanding amount if the Secured Loan is repaid or accelerated within the first year and 1% of the outstanding amount if the Secured Loan is repaid or accelerated within the second year. During the second fiscal quarter of 2017, the Company repaid $5.0million of its Secured Loan. In conjunction with the payment, the Company and Cerberus entered into an amendment to the Secured Loan agreement to modify certain financial covenants and the Company paid a fee of $0.3 million. 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August2016 On August1, 2011, the Company issued the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes to certain qualified institutional buyers, or QIBs. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), or Rule144A. The net proceeds from the $100million offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $96.1million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission (which are recorded in Long-term Debt) were amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes bore interest at a rate of 3.75% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, beginning on February1, 2012. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes matured on August1, 2016. A portion of these notes were redeemed in January2016, and the remainder of these notes was redeemed on August1, 2016, as discussed further below. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes may convert their 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes at any time on or after May1, 2016 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to May1, 2016, holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes could convert their 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2011, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for each trading day of that Note Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; (3)if the Company calls any or all of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the redemption date; or (4)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 33rdbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate was 105.5548 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $9.47 per share of the Company s common stock). 17 In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes was $75.9million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 10%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $24.1million. A portion of the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the offering costs totaling $0.9million was allocated to the equity conversion component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes using the effective interest method over five years. In January2016, the Company repurchased approximately $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for $66.6 million in cash. In August 2016, the Company settled the remaining 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for approximately $36.6 million aggregate principal amount and $0.7 million accrued interest for approximately $37.3 million in cash. 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 In February2013, the Company issued $115.0million aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes to certain Qualified Institutional Buyers or QIBs. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $110.5million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission (which are recorded in Long-term Debt) are both being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, which began on August1, 2013. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes will mature on February1, 2018, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. In April2014, through a series of transactions, the Company refinanced approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the Company s new 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ). The 3.50% Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes at any time until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. The 3.50% Convertible Notes are convertible, as described below into common stock of the Company at an initial conversion rate equal to 187.6877 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes who convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with guidance in ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC815-15, Embedded Derivatives, the Company determined that the embedded conversion components of the 3.50% Convertible Note do not require bifurcation and separate accounting. The remaining $44.7million principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Note has been recorded in Long-term Debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December31, 2016. 18 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 On April17, 2014, the Company entered into note exchange agreements with certain holders (the Participating Holders ) of the 3.50% Convertible Notes to refinance approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. Pursuant to the note exchange agreements, the Company also paid the Participating Holders an aggregate of approximately $0.4million in cash in connection with such transactions. The principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes refinanced for each $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $1,000 and the amount in cash paid per $1,000 principal amount of such 3.50% Convertible Notes delivered was determined in individual negotiations between the Company and each Participating Holder. The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes have the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the 3.50% Convertible Notes, except that the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at the Company s option. The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their Securities at any time on or after November1, 2017 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to November1, 2017, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their securities only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2014, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes for each trading day of that Note Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; or (3)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 17thbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate is 187.6877 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of the Company s common stock). The conversion rate, and thus the conversion price, is subject to adjustment as further described below. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes who convert their notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $62.5million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 7%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $7.9million. In addition, the portion of the cash amount paid to the Participating Holders totaling $0.4 million was allocated to the debt discount with the remaining $47,000 to the equity component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes using the effective interest method through the maturity in February2018. 19 The following table presents the carrying values of all Convertible Notes and notes issued pursuant to the Secured Loan (collectively, Notes ) as of December31, 2016 (in thousands): A summary of interest expense on the Notes is as follows (in thousands): 9. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of net loss, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments, changes in foreign currency exchange rate translation and net changes related to defined benefit pension plan. These components are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of stockholders equity. The foreign currency translation adjustment results from those subsidiaries not using the United States dollar as their functional currency since the majority of their economic activities are primarily denominated in their applicable local currency. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities related to these operations are translated at the current exchange rates at the end of each period. The resulting cumulative translation adjustments are recorded directly to the accumulated other comprehensive loss account in stockholders equity. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period. The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the equity section of the balance sheets are as follows (in thousands): 20 Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition as of December31, 2016 and results of operations for the three and six months ended December31, 2016 and 2015 should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.Statements made in this Form10-Q report that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements in this report relate, but are not limited, to: our future results of operations and financial position, including the sufficiency of cash resources and expected cash flows to fund future operations, including the next 12 months; our backlog and expectations regarding age-outs, cancellations of contracts and foreign currency impacts, the effects of our process improvements on age-outs, backlog and revenue; expected uses of cash during fiscal 2017; the anticipated drivers of our future capital requirements; the success of the multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC for the CyberKnife Systems, its impact on our business; our expectations regarding the factors that will impact long-term success, sales, competitive positioning and long-term success for our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; our belief that TomoTherapy Systems offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market; the anticipated risks associated with our foreign operations and fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies as well as our ability to mitigate such risks; the sufficiency of our cash, cash flow equivalents and investments to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures and our business strategy, plans and objectives.Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, may, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations, including those risks discussed in this quarterly report, in particular under the heading Risk Factors in PartII,Item 1A as well as the risks detailed in PartI,Item 1A of the Company s annual report on Form10-K for fiscal year 2016 , and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made and are based on information available to the Company at the time those statements are made and/or management s good faith belief as of that time with respect to future events. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual performance or results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. In this report, Accuray, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Accuray Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Overview Products and Markets We are a radiation oncology company that develops, manufactures, sells and supports precise, innovative treatment solutions which set the standard of care, with the aim of helping patients live longer, better lives. Our leading-edge technologies, the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, and Radixact, the next generation TomoTherapy System platform are designed to deliver advanced radiation therapy including radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy, intensity modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation therapy and adaptive radiation therapy tailored to the specific needs of each patient. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complementary offerings serving largely separate patient populations treated by the same medical specialty, radiation oncology, with advanced capabilities that offer increased treatment flexibility to meet the needs of an expanding patient population including patients requiring retreatment with radiation therapy. The CyberKnife Systems The CyberKnife Systems are robotic systems designed to deliver radiosurgery treatments to cancer tumors anywhere in the body. The CyberKnife Systems are the only dedicated, full-body robotic radiosurgery systems on the market. Radiosurgery is an alternative to traditional surgery for tumors and is performed on an outpatient basis in one to five treatment sessions. It enables the treatment of patients who typically might not otherwise be treated with radiation, who may not be good candidates for surgery, or who desire non-surgical treatments. The use of radiosurgery with CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors throughout the body has grown significantly in recent years, but currently only a small portion of the patients who develop tumors treatable with CyberKnife Systems are treated with these systems. A determination of when it may or may not be appropriate to use a CyberKnife System for treatment is at the discretion of the treating physician and depends on the specific patient. However, the CyberKnife Systems are generally not used to treat (1)very large tumors, which are considerably wider than the radiation beam that can be delivered by CyberKnife Systems, (2)diffuse wide-spread disease, as is often the case for late stage cancers, because they are not localized (though CyberKnife Systems might be used to treat a focal area of the disease) and (3)systemic diseases, like leukemia and lymphoma, which are not localized to an organ, but rather involve cells throughout the body. 21 Our CyberKnife M6 SeriesSystems have the option of: fixed collimator,Iris Variable Aperture Collimator and/or multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC. The InCise MLC is designed specifically for the M6 Series. With the addition of the InCise MLC, clinicians can deliver the same precise radiosurgery treatments they have come to expect with the CyberKnife System, faster and for a wider range of tumor types. The addition of the InCise MLC, now makes it faster and more efficient to treat a wider range of tumor types with the CyberKnife M6 SeriesSystem, including larger tumors and those with multiple sites of disease. We believe the long term success of the CyberKnife Systems is dependent on a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our CyberKnife M6 Series Systems; Production and shipment of InCise MLCs that meet the standards that we, and our customers, expect in our products; Change in medical practice leading to utilization of stereotactic body radiosurgery more regularly as an alternative to surgery or other treatments; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the benefits of radiosurgery conducted with the CyberKnife Systems; Continued evolution in clinical studies demonstrating the safety, efficacy and other benefits of using the CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors in various parts of the body; Continued advances in our technology that improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of the CyberKnife Systems; Receipt of regulatory approvals in various countries which are expected to improve access to radiosurgery with the CyberKnife Systems in such countries; Medical insurance reimbursement policies that cover CyberKnife System treatments; and Our ability to expand sales of CyberKnife Systems in countries throughout the world where we do not currently sell CyberKnife Systems. TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems The TomoTherapy Systems are advanced, fully integrated and versatile radiation therapy systems for the treatment of a wide range of cancer types. The TomoTherapy Systems are specifically designed for image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IG-IMRT). The TomoTherapy System is cleared for sale by the FDA and in most major markets globally. The TomoTherapy Systems include the TomoTherapy H SeriesSystems with configurations of TomoH, TomoHD and TomoHDA. Based on a CT scanner platform, the systems provide continuous delivery of radiation from 360 degrees around the patient, or delivery from clinician-specified beam angles. These unique features, combined with daily 3D image guidance, enable physicians to deliver highly accurate, individualized dose distributions which precisely conform to the shape of the patient s tumor while minimizing dose to normal, healthy tissue, resulting in fewer side effects for the patient. The TomoTherapy Systems are capable of treating all standard radiation therapy indications including breast, prostate, lung and head and neck cancers, in addition to complex and novel treatments such as total marrow irradiation. Radiation therapy has been widely available and used in developed countries for decades, though many developing countries do not currently have a sufficient number of radiation therapy systems to adequately treat their domestic cancer patient populations. The number of radiation therapy systems in use and sold each year is currently many times larger than the number of radiosurgery systems. The new Radixact System is the next generation TomoTherapy platform and is currently approved for sale in the US, Europe, Japan and other territories. The Radixact System is a new, smart system with integrated Accuray Precision treatment planning software and the new iDMS Data Management System. The Radixact System leverages the TomoTherapy System s efficient daily low-dose fan beam MVCT image guidance and unique ring gantry architecture, delivering precise radiation treatments for more patients, faster, with simpler, more automated workflows. We believe the TomoTherapy Systems and the Radixact System offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market. We believe our ability to capture more sales will be influenced by a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our TomoTherapy Systems and adoption of the Radixact System in markets where it is available; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the unique benefits of radiation therapy using TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems because of their ring gantry architecture and ability to deliver treatment from 360 degrees around the patient; Advances in our technology which improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems; Greater awareness among doctors of the now-established reliability of TomoTherapy Systems; Our ability to expand sales of TomoTherapy Systems in countries throughout the world; and Our ability to scale up commercial launch of the Radixact System in those markets where it is approved. 22 Sale of Our Products Generating revenue from the sale of our systems is a lengthy process. Selling our systems, from first contact with a potential customer to a signed sales contract that meets our backlog criteria (as discussed below) varies significantly and generally spans between six months and two years. The length of time between receipt of a signed contract and revenue recognition is generally governed by the time required by the customer to build, renovate or prepare the treatment room for installation of the system. In the United States, we primarily market directly to customers, including hospitals and stand-alone treatment facilities, through our sales organization and we also market to customers through sales agents and group purchasing organizations. Outside the United States, we market to customers directly and through distributors and sales agents. In addition to our offices in the United States, we have sales and service offices in Europe, Asia, South America, and throughout the world. Key Metrics Backlog For orders that cover both products and services, only the portion of the order that is recognizable as product revenue is reported as backlog. The portion of the order that is recognized as service revenue (for example, Post-Contract Customer Support (PCS), installation, training and professional services) is not included in reported backlog. Product backlog totaled $426.2million as of December31, 2016 compared to $405.9 million as of June30, 2016. In order for the product portion of a system sales agreement to be counted as backlog, it must meet the following criteria: The contract is properly executed by both the customer and us. A customer purchase order that incorporates the terms of our contract quote will be considered equivalent to a signed and executed contract. The contract has either cleared all its contingencies or contained no contingencies when signed. We have received a minimum deposit or a letter of credit; or the sale is to a customer where a deposit is deemed not necessary or customary (i.e. sale to a government entity, a large hospital, group of hospitals or cancer care group that has sufficient credit, customers with trade-in of existing equipment, sales via tender awards, or indirect channel sales that have signed contracts with end-customers); The specific end customer site has been identified by the customer in the written contract or written amendment; Less than 2.5 years have passed since the contract met all the criteria above. Although our backlog includes only contractual agreements with our customers for the purchase of CyberKnife Systems, TomoTherapy Systems, Radixact System and related upgrades, we cannot provide assurance that we will convert backlog into recognized revenue due primarily to factors outside of our control. The amount of backlog recognized into revenue is primarily impacted by three items: cancellations, age-outs and foreign currency fluctuations. Orders could be cancelled for reasons including, without limitation, changes in customers needs or financial condition, changes in government or health insurance reimbursement policies, or changes to regulatory requirements. In addition to cancellations, after 2.5 years, if we have not been able to recognize revenue on a contract, we remove the revenue associated with the contract from backlog and the order is considered aged out. Contracts may age-out for many reasons, including but not limited to, inability of the customer to pay, inability of the customer to adapt their facilities to accommodate our products in a timely manner, or inability to timely obtain licenses necessary for customer facilities or operation of our equipment. Our backlog also includes amounts not denominated in U.S. Dollars and therefore fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar as compared to other currencies will impact backlog. Generally, strengthening in the U.S. Dollar will negatively impact revenue. Backlog is stated at historical foreign currency exchange rates, and revenue is released from backlog at current exchange rates, with any difference recorded as a backlog adjustment. 23 Gross Orders Gross orders are defined as the sum of new orders recorded during the period adjusted for any revisions to existing orders during the period. Net product orders are defined as gross product orders less cancellations, age-outs and foreign exchange adjustments. Gross orders increased by $11.4million for the three months ended December31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended December31, 2015. This was a result of an increase of $10.5million in new system order volume compared to the same prior year period. The CyberKnife System order volume drove the increase for this period and was partially offset by a decrease in order volume for the TomoTherapy System and upgrade orders and other adjustments which increased by $0.9million in the three months ended December31, 2016 as compared to the same prior year period. Gross orders decreased by $3.2million for the six months ended December31, 2016, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2015. This was a result of a decrease of $8.7million in new system order volume compared to the same prior year period. The CyberKnife System order volume drove the decrease for this period and was partially offset by an increase in order volume for the TomoTherapy System. The decline was offset by upgrade orders and other adjustments which increased by $5.5million in the six months ended December31, 2016 as compared to the same prior year period. Net Orders Net orders increased by $11.4million for the three months ended December31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended December31, 2015, resulting from the increase in gross orders of $11.4million and foreign currency and other adjustments of $1.4 million. These increases were offset by cancellations of $0.6 million and net age-outs of $0.8 million. There were age-outs of $19.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, an increase of $0.8 million from the prior year period due to more systems exceeding the 2.5 year criteria specified above. The age-outs for the three months ended December 31, 2016 included $1.9 million of age-ins which represent orders that have previously aged-out but have been taken to revenue in the current period. Age-ins offset the gross amount of age-outs in a particular period. There were cancellations of $3.6 million and $3.0 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. Currency impacts resulted in a decrease in net orders of $0.9 million and $2.3 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net orders increased by $3.8million for the six months ended December31, 2016, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2015, resulting from fewer net age-outs of $7.0 million and positive currency impacts of $1.1 million. These items were partially offset by increased cancellations of $1.1 million and a decline in gross orders of $3.2 million as compared to the same prior year period. There were net age-outs of $30.6 million for the six months ended December 31, 2016, a decrease of $7.0 million from the prior year period due to fewer systems exceeding the 2.5 year criteria specified above. The age-outs of $30.6 million for the six months ended December 31, 2016 included age-ins of $1.9 million which would represent orders that have previously aged-out but have been taken to revenue in the current period. Age-ins offset the gross amount of age-outs in a particular period. There were cancellations of $7.1 million and $6.0 million in the six months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. Currency impacts resulted in an increase in net orders of $0.1 million and a decrease in net orders of $1.0 million in the six months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 24 Currently, we expect age-outs in the third quarter of this fiscal year to be approximately $11.0 million as compared to $19.9 million in age-outs recorded during the three months ended December31, 2016. Results of Operations Three and six months ended December31, 2016 and 2015 (a) Expressed as a percentage of total net revenue, except for product and services gross profits which are expressed as a percentage of related product and services revenue. Net Revenue Product Net Revenue . Product net revenue decreased by $20.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2015, primarily due to a decrease of $18.3 million in revenue from system sales resulting from a shift in product and channel mix as we had fewer units of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems taken to revenue as compared to the same period in the prior year. As our CyberKnife systems generally have a higher average sale price, the overall net product revenue decreased year-over-year. In addition, the decrease in revenue is attributable to a slight increase in the revenue conversion process mainly resulting from a higher percentage of order growth in our distributor channels which results in less control over the timing of revenue. There was also a decrease of $2.1 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. From time to time, we may amend sales agreements for system orders in backlog between Accuray and our distributors in order to shift responsibility of the installation of the system from us to the distributor. In such cases, the total purchase price of the system will be reduced accordingly as negotiated with the distributor on a case by case basis. This may result in us recognizing revenue for such systems earlier than previously anticipated. For the quarter ended December 31, 2016, the amount of revenue recognized as a result of such amendments accounted for less than 5% of our total revenue. Product net revenue decreased by $24.8million for the six months ended December31, 2016, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2015, primarily due to a decrease of $21.4million revenue from new system sales resulting from product and channel mix as we had fewer units of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems taken to revenue as compared to the same period in the prior year. As our CyberKnife systems generally have a higher average sale price, the overall net product revenue decreased year-over-year. In addition, the decrease in revenue is attributable to a slight increase in the revenue conversion process mainly resulting from a higher percentage of order growth in our distributor channels which results in less control over the timing of revenue. There was also a decrease of $3.4 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. Services Net Revenue . Services net revenue decreased by $1.0 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2015. The decrease was driven by decreased installation and spare parts revenue of $1.9 million and a decrease in training revenue of $2.3 million. These decreases were offset by increased PCS revenue of $3.2 million due to an increased install base. 25 Services net revenue increased by $0.2 million for the six months ended December31, 2016, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2015. The increase was driven by increased PCS revenue of $4.4million due to an increased install base and was offset by a decrease in training revenue of $1.5million, spare parts revenue of $1.5million and installation revenue of $1.2 million. Percentage of net revenue by geographic region, based on the shipping location of our customers, is as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $48.3 million and $57.9 million for the three months ended December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and represented 55% and 53% of our net revenue during these periods, respectively. Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $94.2 million and $102.3 million for the six months ended December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and represented 54% and 52% of our net revenue during these periods, respectively. Gross Profit Overall gross profit for the three months ended December31, 2016, decreased $11.2 million, or 26%, as compared to the three months ended December31, 2015. Product gross profit decreased 46%, or $10.6million, primarily due to the decrease in systems taken to revenue as well as lower margins due to product and channel mix. Service gross profit decreased 3%, or $0.6million, as a result of lower service revenues of $1.0 million, partially offset by decreased service costs of $0.4 million resulting from reductions in departmental spending due to headcount decreases and lower parts utilization. Overall gross profit for the six months ended December31, 2016, decreased $13.7 million, or 18%, as compared to the six months ended December31, 2015. Product gross profit decreased 38%, or $15.3million, primarily due to the decrease in systems taken to revenue as well as lower margins due to product and channel mix. Service gross profit increased 4%, or $1.6million, as a result of higher service revenues of $0.2million and decreased service costs of $1.4million resulting from reductions in departmental spending due to headcount decreases and lower parts utilization. Research and Development Research and development expenses were $11.9 million in the three months ended December31, 2016 as compared to $14.9 million in the three months ended December31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $3.0 million, or 20%. The decrease was primarily due to a $1.2 million decrease in consulting fees as a result of completion of roadmap development projects and decreased compensation related expenses of $0.9 million due to lower headcount and delays in hiring as compared with the prior fiscal year period. Additionally, there was a decrease of $0.4million in project-related expenses due to deferral of certain projects as well as a decrease of $0.5million in IT and facilities allocated expenses. Research and development expenses were $24.2 million in the six months ended December31, 2016 as compared to $29.2 million in the six months ended December31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $5.1 million, or 17%. The decrease was primarily due to a $2.3 million decrease in consulting fees as a result of completion of roadmap development projects and decreased compensation related expenses of $1.3 million due to lower headcount and delays in hiring as compared with the prior fiscal period. Additionally, there was a decrease of $0.6million in project-related expenses due to deferral of certain projects as well as a decrease of $0.9million in IT and facilities allocated expenses. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended December31, 2016 were $13.9 million as compared to $15.1 million for the three months ended December31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $1.2 million, or 8%. The decrease was primarily because of $1.4 million in lower marketing related expenses driven primarily by the timing of tradeshows as well as a decrease in compensation costs of $0.2million. These decreases were offset by higher outside services costs of $0.4million related to new marketing programs. 26 Selling and marketing expenses for the six months ended December31, 2016 were $28.2 million as compared to $28.5 million for the six months ended December31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $0.3 million, or 1%. The decrease was primarily because of a $1.4 million lower compensation expense related to a decrease in commission expense. The decrease was offset by higher outside services costs of $0.7million related to new marketing programs and $0.3million in marketing expenses related to trade shows and $0.1million in IT and facilities allocated expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the three months ended December31, 2016 were $10.4 million as compared to $12.7 million for the three months ended December31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $2.3 million, or 18%. This decrease was mainly attributable to $2.5 million in lower legal fees associated with litigation settlements in the second quarter of fiscal year 2016 as described in Note 7 to the financial statements in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2016. In addition, personnel related expenses decreased $0.2 million due to lower bonus accruals as compared to the same period in the prior year, as well as lower outside services costs of $0.3million. These decrease were partially offset by higher IT and facilities allocated expenses of $0.6million. General and administrative expenses for the six months ended December31, 2016 were $21.7 million as compared to $26.1 million for the six months ended December31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $4.4 million, or 17%. This decrease was mainly attributable to $5.7 million in lower legal fees associated with litigation settlements in the first and second quarter of fiscal year 2016 as described in Note 7 to the financial statements in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2016. This decrease was partially offset by increased employee compensation expenses of $0.1 million and higher IT and facilities allocated expenses of $1.2million. Other Expense, net Other expense, net for the three months ended December31, 2016 was $4.1 million as compared to $5.1 million for the three months ended December31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $1.0 million, or 19%. There was a decrease in interest expense of $1.0 million due to the settlement of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. In addition, there was a decrease in foreign exchange losses of $0.3 million, related primarily to foreign exchange hedging activities. These decreases were offset by a $0.3million fee related to the amendment of certain covenants to our Secured Loan. Other expense, net for the six months ended December31, 2016 was $8.1 million as compared to $10.2 million for the six months ended December31, 2015, which represents a decrease of $2.1 million, or 20%. There was a decrease in interest expense of $1.5 million due to the settlement of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. In addition, there was a decrease in foreign exchange losses of $0.8 million, related primarily to foreign exchange hedging activities. These decreases were offset by a $0.3million fee related to the amendment of certain covenants to our Secured Loan. Provision for Income Taxes On a quarterly basis, the Company provides for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The Company recognized income taxes expense of $0.4 million and an income tax benefit of $0.2 million for the three and six months ended December31, 2016, respectively. Income tax expense was $0.8 million and $1.5 million for the three and six months ended December31, 2015, respectively. The decrease in tax expense for the three and six months ended December31, 2016 as compared to the prior year comparable periods was due to a decrease in foreign earnings. In addition, the decline in income tax expense for the six months ended December31, 2016 was attributable to the recognition of an income tax benefit of approximately $1.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 as a result of the completion of tax audits by the Swiss authorities for the period from fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December31, 2016, we had $69.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $38.9 million in short-term investments, for a total of $108.4million. Refer to Note 8, Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements for discussion of the Convertible Notes and our Senior Secured Term Loan. Based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that we will have sufficient cash resources and anticipated cash flows to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. 27 As of December31, 2016, we had approximately $55.6 million of cash and cash equivalents at our foreign subsidiaries. The earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and unavailable for distribution in the form of dividends or otherwise. Accordingly, no provisions for U.S. income taxes have been provided thereon. We anticipate that we have adequate liquidity and capital resources for the next twelve months and do not anticipate the need to repatriate the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries at December31, 2016. Our cash flows for the six months ended December31, 2016 and 2015 are summarized as follows (in thousands): Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities in the six months ended December31, 2016 was $11.4 million, as compared to $20.3million provided by operating activities in the six months ended December31, 2015. Net cash used in operating activities in the six months ended December31, 2016 was primarily related to: Net loss, offset by non-cash items of $18.6 million related to depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, amortization and accretion of discount and premium on investments, amortization of debt issuance costs, accretion of interest on long-term debt, provision for doubtful accounts receivable and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; Decrease in restricted cash of $0.4 million due to releases of restrictions on cash related to VAT related guarantees; Increase in accounts receivable of $15.8 million as a result of the timing of revenue transactions in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, which collections are primarily expected in the third fiscal quarter of 2017; Increase in inventories of $2.6 million due to increases in purchases in the second quarter of fiscal year 2017 to support expected future Radixact sales and service needs that will begin to be utilized in the third fiscal quarter of 2017; Decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.4 million primarily due to the timing of payments to our vendors; Decrease in deferred revenue of $5.3 million primarily due to the timing of the sale transactions during the second quarter of fiscal year 2017; Decrease in deferred cost of revenue of $1.5 million primarily due to the release of costs upon revenue recognition; Increase in accounts payable of $10.1 million primarily due to timing of payments as there was fewer large value payments at the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2017; Decrease in accrued liabilities of $3.4 million primarily related to a decrease in loan interest accrual of $1.1 million due to the settlement of the 3.75% Senior Notes in August 2016, a decrease in compensation related accruals of $2.4 million offset by an increase in accruals for taxes of $0.1 million; and Increase in customer advances of $3.1 million due mainly to increases in new customer orders. 28 Net cash provided by operating activities in the six months ended December31, 2015 was primarily related to: Net loss, offset by non-cash items of $21.0 million related to depreciation of fixed assets, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, amortization and accretion of discount and premium on investments, amortization of debt issuance costs, accretion of interest on long-term debt, provision for doubtful accounts receivable and provision for excess and obsolete inventory; Decrease in restricted cash of $1.0 million due to releases of restrictions on cash related to bunker constructions during the year; Decrease in accounts receivable of $11.0 million as a result of collections on customer accounts in excess of billings resulting from significant sales transactions in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2015 that were collected in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, partially offset by a higher volume of invoicing as compared to payments in the second quarter of fiscal year 2016; Increase in inventories of $5.7 million due to increases in purchases in the first half of fiscal year 2016 to support expected future sales and service needs that began to be utilized in the second half of fiscal 2016; Increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.5 million primarily due to an increase in long-term accounts receivable of $6.5 million due to several large revenue contracts with extended payment terms. This was partially offset by a decrease of $1.4 million due to the settlement of value-add taxes in foreign locations, reduction of other prepaids of $0.7 million due to the release of vendor advances and amortization of prepayments for the ASTRO tradeshow offset by new additions, and a reduction in prepaid benefit and other costs of $0.9 million due to the timing of payments; Increase in deferred revenue of $5.9 million primarily due to additional product revenue deferrals added during the period in excess of the amount of deferred product revenue recognized; Increase in deferred cost of revenue of $2.7 million primarily due to the timing of inventory transfers to customers; Increase in accounts payable of $6.7 million primarily due to an increase in inventory purchasing activities in the first half of fiscal year 2016 and timing of payments as there was more large value payment activity at the end of prior year as compared with the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2016; Increase in accrued liabilities of $5.4 million primarily related to an increase in legal accruals of $5.7 million due to litigation settlements as well as an increase in the bonus accrual of $1.1 million for the first half of fiscal 2016. These increases were partially offset by decreased revenue related accruals of $1.4 million due to the timing of payments; and Increase in customer advances of $0.3 million due mainly to payments received for future revenue deliverables. Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $5.1 million for the six months ended December31, 2016, which primarily consisted of the sales and maturities of investments of $23.2 million, offset by the purchases of short-term investments of $15.0 million and purchases of property and equipment of $3.1million. Net cash used in investing activities was $7.7 million for the six months ended December31, 2015, which primarily consisted of purchases of short-term investments of $33.1 million and purchases of property and equipment of $4.1 million partially offset by sales and maturities of investments of $29.5 million. Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the six months ended December31, 2016 was $41.2 million, which was primarily due to $36.6 million in payments made to convertible note holders for the settlement of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and the $5.0million early payment on the Secured Loan as discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements. In addition, there were $2.1 million in proceeds from employee stock plans which was partially offset by $0.7 million taxes paid related to net share settlements of equity awards. 29 Net cash used in financing activities during the six months ended December31, 2015 was $0.8 million from proceeds from employee stock plans offset by taxes paid related to net share settlement or equity awards. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors. These factors include but are not limited to the following: Revenue generated by sales of our products and service plans; Costs associated with our sales and marketing initiatives and manufacturing activities; Facilities, equipment and IT systems required to support current and future operations; Rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; Costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances of our products; Effects of competing technological and market developments; and Number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least 12months. If our cash and cash equivalents are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and marketing efforts. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended June30, 2016. As discussed in Note 8, in August 2016, we settled the remaining approximately $36.6 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and accrued interest for $37.3 million in cash. In November 2016, we also repaid $5.0 million of our Secured Loan. In addition, we signed a lease extension in October 2016 on our Madison, Wisconsin facility through 2025, which would have expired in 2018 (Refer to Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies for a detail schedule of lease obligations). Except for the change in debt and lease obligations, there have been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the six months ended December 31, 2016. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December31, 2016. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities. Actual results could therefore differ materially from those estimates if actual conditions differ from our assumptions. 30 During the three and six months ended December31, 2016, we considered our estimated corporate bonus accrual to be a critical accounting estimate. The Company s bonus accrual for each quarter is based on its performance against Company defined metrics: net revenue, adjusted EBITDA and gross orders to backlog. There have been no changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates, as discussed in PartII,Item 7 of our Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2016, which we believe are those related to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts and loss contingencies.Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands, except share amounts and par value) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) (in thousands, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Accuray Incorporated Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands) (Unaudited) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Accuray Incorporated Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Description of Business Accuray Incorporated (together with its subsidiaries, the Company or Accuray ) is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of business in Sunnyvale, California. The Company designs, develops and sells advanced radiosurgery and radiation therapy systems for the treatment of tumors throughout the body. The Company has offices in the United States, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong and Japan and conducts its business worldwide. Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), pursuant to the rulesand regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ).Certain information and note disclosures have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rulesand regulations.The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the same basis as the annual financial statements and, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments, which include only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. Certain amounts in the prior year s condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported condensed consolidated cash flows or statements of operations. The results for the three and nine months ended March31, 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the fiscal year ending June30, 2017, or for any other future interim period or fiscal year. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company s audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the fiscal year ended June30, 2016 included in the Company s Annual Report on Form10-K filed with the SEC on August24, 2016. The Company s significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to those audited consolidated financial statements and there have been no subsequent material changes to such policies. Recent Accounting Standard Update Not Yet Effective In March2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standard Update (ASU) No.2017-07, Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)-Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost. This guidance revises the presentation of employer-sponsored defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans for the net periodic benefit cost in the statement of operations and requires that the service cost component of net periodic benefit be presented in the same income statement line items as other employee compensation costs for services rendered during the period. The other components of the net benefit costs are required to be presented in the statement of operations separately from the service cost component and outside the subtotal of income from operations. This guidance allows only the service cost component of net periodic benefit costs to be eligible for capitalization. The guidance will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual reporting period. The Company has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In January2017, the FASB issued ASU No.2017-04,Intangibles-Goodwill and Other Topics (Topic 350)-Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. This guidance eliminates the requirement to calculate the implied fair value of goodwill of a reporting unit by determining the fair value of its assets and liabilities (including unrecognized assets and liabilities) to measure a goodwill impairment charge. Instead, an entity will record an impairment charge based on the excess of the reporting unit s carrying amount over its fair value. The ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2021 on a prospective basis and earlier adoption is permitted for goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In August2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which clarifies the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the 6 statement of cash flows. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The Company has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In June2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-13 Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU2016-13). ASU 2016-13requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2021 and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, with certain exceptions. Early adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of the Company s fiscal year 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In March2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-09,Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718). The new guidance simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. In addition, the guidance provides an option to recognize forfeitures as they occur versus estimating them at the time of grant. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In February2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-02,Leases (Topic 842). Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as finance or operating lease. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2020 and early adoption is permitted. The ASU requires adoption based upon a modified retrospective transition approach. Company has not yet selected a transition method, has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In January2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU2016-01). ASU 2016-01changes accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, it clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2019 and must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, with certain exceptions. Early adoption is permitted for certain provisions. The Company has not yet determined whether it will elect early adoption and is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In May2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU2014-09), to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. The core principle of ASU 2014-09is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09defines a five step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. ASU 2014-09is required to be adopted, using either of two methods: (i)retrospective to each prior reporting period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within ASU 2014-09; or (ii)retrospective with the cumulative effect of initially applying ASU 2014-09recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures. In August2015, the FASB approved a one year deferral of the effective period of ASU 2014-09. The standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal year 2019, but early adoption is permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The FASB issued supplemental adoption guidance and clarification to ASU2014-09 in 2016 and 2017. The Company intends to adopt the new standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 by recognizing the cumulative effect of the new standard as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings. Based upon the Company s preliminary assessment, certain portions of its product revenue will be accelerated to reflect consideration upon delivery and an element of installation will be deferred until performed. Revenue policies for indirect sales and service revenues are expected to be unchanged under the new guidance. The Company also expects to capitalize incremental contract acquisition costs, such as sales commissions, and amortize over the economic life of its product or contractual relationship with the customer. The Company s current practice is to defer sales comissions until revenue is recognized. The Company currently does not expect the application of this guidance to have a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements; however, the Company s assessment may change as it continues its evaluation and analysis of this ASU. Accounting Standard Update Recently Adopted In November2016, the FASB issued ASU No.2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash, which provides amendments to current guidance to address the classification and presentation of changes in restricted cash in the statement 7 of cash flows. The Company early adopted this ASU and retrospectively applied the change to the statement of cash flows for the nine months ended March31, 2016. The Company disclosed its restricted cash on its condensed consolidated balance sheets for the years presented. The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the Company s condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Use of Estimates The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements. Key estimates and assumptions made by the Company relate to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts, loss contingencies and corporate bonus expenses. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Concentration of Credit and Other Risks The Company s cash, cash equivalents and investments are deposited with several major financial institutions. At times, deposits in these institutions exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. The Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and does not believe that it is exposed to any significant risk of loss on these balances. For the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, there was one customer that represented 13% of total net revenue and no customers that represented 10% or more of total net revenue, respectively. For the nine months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, there were no customers that represented more than 10% of total net revenue, respectively. One customer accounted for 25% and 18% of the Company s total accounts receivable as of March 31, 2017 and June 30, 2016, respectively. Accounts receivable are typically not collateralized. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and maintains reserves for potential credit losses. Accounts receivable are deemed past due in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement pursuant to which the receivables are generated. Accounts receivable balances are charged against the allowance for doubtful accounts once collection efforts are unsuccessful. Single source suppliers presently provide the Company with several components. In most cases, if a supplier was unable to deliver these components, the Company believes that it would be able to find other sources at comparable prices for these components subject to any regulatory qualifications, if required. Revenue Recognition The Company earns revenue from the sale of products and related services. The Company records revenues net of any value added or sales tax. For arrangements with multiple elements, the Company allocates arrangement fees to products and services based upon Vendor Specific Objective Evidence (VSOE) of fair value of the respective elements, Third-Party Evidence (TPE), or Best Estimate of Selling Price (BESP), using the relative selling price method. Product and Service Revenue The majority of product revenue is generated from sales of CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems. If the Company is responsible for installation, the Company recognizes revenue after installation and acceptance of the system. Otherwise, revenue is recognized upon delivery, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met. The Company offers systems with post-contract customer support (PCS), installation services, training and professional services. PCS includes planned and corrective maintenance services, software updates, bug fixes, as well as call-center support. Service revenue is generated primarily from PCS (warranty period services and post warranty services), installation services, training, parts and upgrades that are sold under service contracts and professional services. PCS revenue is deferred and recognized over the service period. Installation service revenue is recognized concurrently with system revenue. Training and professional service revenues that are not deemed essential to the functionality of the systems are recognized as such services are performed. Costs associated with service revenue are expensed when incurred, except when those costs are related to parts or system upgrades where revenue recognition has been deferred. In those cases, the costs are deferred and recognized over the period of revenue recognition. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. 8 A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share follows (in thousands): The potentially dilutive shares of the Company s common stock resulting from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock options, the vesting of Restricted Stock Units (RSU), Market Stock Units (MSU) and Performance Stock Units (PSU), and the purchase of shares under the Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP), as determined under the treasury stock method, are excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. Additionally, the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes (the 3.75% Convertible Notes ), the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February1, 2018 (the 3.50% Convertible Notes ), the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ) due February1, 2018 (together, the Convertible Notes ) are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share only if their inclusion is dilutive. For the three months ended March31, 2016, the potentially dilutive shares issuable upon the conversion of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes were included in the calculation of the diluted net income per share, while the dilutive shares issuable upon the conversion of the 3.50% Convertible Notes were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. The following table sets forth all potentially dilutive securities excluded from the computation in the table above because their effect would have been anti-dilutive (in thousands): Outstanding Convertible Notes Diluted Share Impact The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes have an optional physical (share), cash or combination settlement feature and contain certain conditional conversion features. Due to the optional cash settlement feature and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash, the conversion shares underlying the outstanding principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, totaling approximately 13.2million shares were not included in the potentially diluted share count table above. The zero potentially dilutive shares of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes as of March31, 2017, included in the table above are the result of the lower average share price, which was below the conversion price and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash. The number of premium shares included in the Company s diluted share count will vary with fluctuations in the Company s share price. Higher actual share prices result in a greater number of premium shares. The 3.75% Convertible Notes were fully settled in cash during Januaryand Augustof 2016 as further discussed in Note 8. As of March31, 2016, approximately 10.6 million shares related to the 3.75% Convertible Notes were excluded from the potentially dilutive share count table above due to the optional cash settlement feature and management s intent to settle the principal amount thereof in cash. In addition, there were no premium shares associated with the 3.75% Convertible Notes as the Company s average share price did not exceed the conversion price as of March 31, 2016. 9 Segment Information The Company has one operating and reporting segment (oncology systems group), which develops, manufactures and markets proprietary medical devices used in radiation therapy and radiosurgery for the treatment of cancer patients. The Company s Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Operating Decision Maker, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. The Company does not assess the performance of its individual product lines on measures of profit or loss, or asset based metrics. Therefore, the information below is presented only for revenues and long-lived tangible assets by geographic areas. Revenue by geographic region is based on the shipping addresses of the Company s customers. The following summarizes revenue by geographic region (in thousands): Information regarding geographic areas in which the Company has long lived tangible assets is as follows (in thousands): 2. Balance Sheet Components Financing receivables A financing receivable is a contractual right to receive money, on demand or on fixed or determinable dates, that is recognized as an asset in the Company s balance sheet. The Company s financing receivables, consisting of its accounts receivable with contractual maturities of more than one year and capital leases, totaled $5.5million and $7.6million at March31, 2017 and June30, 2016, respectively, and are included in Other Assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Of the $5.5million in financing receivables at March31, 2017, $3.0million is related to sales-type leases with customers while the remaining $2.5million is related to contractual maturities of more than one year. Of the $7.6million in financing receivables at June30, 2016, $3.5million is related to sales-type leases with customers while the remaining $4.1million is related to contractual maturities of more than one year. Due to the homogenous nature of the leasing transactions, the Company manages them on an aggregate basis when assessing and monitoring credit risk. The Company evaluates the credit quality of an obligor at lease inception and monitors credit quality over the term of the underlying transactions. The Company performs a credit analysis for all new customers and reviews payment history, current order backlog, financial performance of the customers and other variables that augment or mitigate the inherent credit risk of a particular transaction. Such variables include the underlying value and liquidity of the collateral, the essential use of the equipment, the term of the lease and the inclusion of credit enhancements, such as guarantees, letters of credit or security deposits. The Company classifies accounts as high risk when it considers the financing receivable to be impaired or when management believes there is a significant near-term risk of non-payments. As of March31, 2017, the sales-type lease portion of the financing receivables was rated at a moderate risk. The Company performed an assessment of the allowance for credit losses related to its financing receivables as of March31, 2017 and June30, 2016. Based upon such assessment, the Company did not record an allowance for credit losses related to such financing receivables as of March31, 2017 and June30, 2016, respectively. 10 A summary of the Company s financing receivables is presented as follows (in thousands): Actual cash collections may differ from the contracted maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancing, or defaults. Future minimum lease payments to be received as of March31, 2017 are presented asfollows (in thousands): Inventories Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): 11 Property and equipment, net Property and equipment, net consisted of the following (inthousands): Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three and nine months ended March31, 2017 was $2.6million and $7.9million, respectively. Depreciation expense related to property and equipment for the three and nine months ended March31, 2016 was $2.6million and $7.7million, respectively. 3. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill Activity related to goodwill consisted of the following (in thousands): In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that there was no impairment to goodwill. The Company will continue to monitor its recorded goodwill for indicators of impairment. Intangible Assets The Company s unamortized intangible assets associated with completed acquisitions at March31, 2017 and June30, 2016 are as follows (in thousands): The Company did not identify any triggering events that would indicate potential impairment of its definite-lived intangible and long-lived assets as of March31, 2017 and June30, 2016. Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the three and nine months ended March31, 2017 was $2.0million and $6.0million, respectively. Amortization expense related to intangible assets for the three and nine months ended March31, 2016 was $2.0million and $6.0million, respectively. 12 The estimated future amortization expense of purchased intangible assets as of March31, 2017 is as follows (in thousands): 4. Foreign Exchange Instruments The Company utilizes foreign currency forward contracts with well-known financial institutions to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on certain intercompany balances and foreign currency denominated cash and customer receivables. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. These forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. Principal hedged currencies include the Euro, Japanese Yen, Swiss Franc, and U.S.Dollar. The periods of these forward contracts range up to approximately three months and the notional amounts are intended to be consistent with changes in the underlying exposures. The Company intends to exchange foreign currencies for U.S.Dollars at maturity. There were no outstanding foreign currency forward contracts at the end of March31, 2017 and June30, 2016. The following table shows the net effect of foreign currency expenses and forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments and foreign currency transactions gains and losses, which were included in Other expense, net on the condensed consolidated statements of operations in three and nine months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 is as follows (in thousands): 5. Financial Instruments The Company considers all highly liquid investments held at major banks, certificates of deposit and other securities with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company classifies all of its investments as available-for-sale at the time of purchase because management intends that these investments are available for current operations and includes these investments on its balance sheet as short-term investments. Investments with original maturities longer than three months include commercial paper, U.S. agency securities, non-U.S. government securities and investment-grade corporate debt securities. Investments classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair market value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders equity. Realized gains and losses are recorded based on specific identification of each security s cost basis. The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The fair value hierarchy contains three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows: Level1 Unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for the identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. Level2 Other observable inputs available at the measurement date, other than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly, including: Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in non-active markets; Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; and Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by other observable market data. 13 Level3 Unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated by observable market data and require the use of significant management judgment. These values are generally determined using pricing models for which the assumptions utilize management s estimates of market participant assumptions. The following tables summarize the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value by significant investment category for cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (in thousands): Certain investments in the table above are classified as having Level2 inputs because quoted prices in an active market are not readily accessible for those specific financial assets, or the Company may have relied on alternative pricing methods that do not rely exclusively on quoted prices to determine the fair value of the investments. The Company had investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of March31, 2017. The Company determined that (i)it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii)it is not likely that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. The Company reviews its investments quarterly to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment. As of March31, 2017, the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire carrying value of such investments and has determined that no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the three and nine months ended March31, 2017. 2 Contractual maturities of available-for-sale securities at March31, 2017 were as follows (inthousands): 14 The following table summarizes the available-for-sale debt securities that were in a continuous unrealized loss position, but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired (in thousands): The Company held a total of 8positions as of March31, 2017 and 11positions as of June30, 2016 that were in an unrealized loss position. Based on the Company s review of these securities, the Company believes it had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as of March31, 2017 and June30, 2016 because it does not intend to sell these securities and believes it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. Gross realized gains and gross realized losses were insignificant for the three and nine months ended March31, 2017 and the year ended June30, 2016. 6. Commitments and Contingencies Operating Lease Agreements The Company leases office and manufacturing space under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through December2025. In October2016, the Company signed a lease extension on its Madison, Wisconsin facility through 2025, which would have expired in 2018. Accordingly, the Company s lease obligations increased from $39.9million as of June30, 2016 to $48.3million as of March31, 2017. Future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating lease agreements as of March31, 2017 are asfollows (in thousands): The Company s contractual obligations were presented in the Annual Report on Form10-K for the previous annual reporting period ended June30, 2016. As discussed in Note 8, in August 2016, the Company settled the remaining approximately $36.6 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and accrued interest for $37.3 million in cash. In November 2016, the Company repaid $5.0 million of its Secured Loan. Except for the change in lease obligations presented in the above table and a reduction of the Company s Notes and Secured Loan, there has been no significant change outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017. Litigation From time to time, the Company is involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company records a provision for a loss when it believes that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Currently, management believes the Company does not have any probable and reasonably estimable losses related to any current legal proceedings and claims. Although occasional adverse decisions or settlements may occur, management does not believe 15 that an adverse determination with respect to any of these claims would individually or in the aggregate materially and adversely affect the Company s financial condition or operating results. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond the Company s control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, the Company could incur significant charges related to legal matters that could have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Software License Indemnity Under the terms of the Company s software license agreements with its customers, the Company agrees that in the event the software sold infringes upon any patent, copyright, trademark, or any other proprietary right of a third-party, it will indemnify its customer licensees against any loss, expense, or liability from any damages that may be awarded against its customer. The Company includes this infringement indemnification in all of its software license agreements and selected managed services arrangements. In the event the customer cannot use the software or service due to infringement and the Company cannot obtain the right to use, replace or modify the license or service in a commercially feasible manner so that it no longer infringes, then the Company may terminate the license and provide the customer a refund of the fees paid by the customer for the infringing license or service. The Company has not recorded any liability associated with this indemnification, as it is not aware of any pending or threatened actions that represent probable losses as of March31, 2017. 7. Share-Based Compensation The following table summarizes the share-based compensation charges included in the Company s condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss (in thousands): 8. Debt First Lien Senior Secured Term Loan due January2021 (Secured Loan) In January2016, the Company closed a $70.0 million first lien senior secured debt financing agreement (as amended, the Secured Loan ) with Cerberus Business Finance, LLC, as collateral and administrative agent. As required by the terms of the financing, upon the closing of the financing , the Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the financing to repurchase approximately $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes. The Secured Loan is repayable in consecutive quarterly installments of $875,000 with the final payment due on the maturity date. The Secured Loan matures on the earlier of: (i)January11, 2021 and (ii)the date that is 120 days prior to the scheduled maturity date of the 3.5% Convertible Senior Notes maturing February1, 2018 unless the Company has set aside specifically identifiable funds raised from new common equity or new debt equal to the then-outstanding principal amount of the 3.5% Convertible Senior Notes. The Company may, at its election, repay the Secured Loan at any time and if so, the Company will be required to pay a prepayment premium of 2% of the outstanding amount if the Secured Loan is repaid or accelerated within the first year and 1% of the outstanding amount if the Secured Loan is repaid or accelerated within the second year. The Secured Loan is secured by first-priority liens on substantially all the assets of the Company. Interest under the Secured Loan is payable monthly at a variable rate per annum equal to, at the Company s option, (i)the LIBOR Rate for one month plus an applicable margin of 7.00% (subject to a LIBOR Rate floor of 1.00% per annum), or (ii)a Reference Rate, which is the higher of 1) 3.25%, 2) Federal Funds Rate plus 0.5%, 3) the LIBOR rate for 1 month plus 1%, and 4) the US Prime Rate as published in the Wall Street Journal, plus an applicable margin of 4.75% per annum. As part of the amendment in March 2017, discussed further below, the applicable margins for the LIBOR and Reference Rate increased to 7.50% and 5.25%, respectively, and these margins will remain in effect until certain specified conditions are met. 16 Under the terms of this Secured Loan, the Company must comply with certain customary financial and non-financial covenants, including covenants for secured leverage, total leverage, fixed charges, EBITDA, capital expenditures and other covenants as defined in the agreement. The Company was in compliance with the required covenants as of March31, 2017, and June30, 2016. In November2016, Company and Cerberus amended the Secured Loan, which modified the compliance levels of certain financial covenants and specified that the Company pay a fee of $0.3 million. In conjunction with the amendment, the Company repaid $5.0 million of the outstanding principal amount. In March 2017, the Secured Loan was further amended, which (i) modified the compliance levels and definitions of certain financial covenants (ii) increased the applicable interest rate margins under the Secured Loan by 0.50% until certain specified conditions are met, (iii) required the Company to obtain a letter of credit in the amount of $12.5 million for the benefit of the administrative agent, which is drawable and will be applied to any outstanding principal balance upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of certain conditions and events and (iv) specified that the Company pay a fee of $0.3 million. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $65.5million. The offering costs of $3.1 million and the initial purchaser s discount and commission of $1.4 million are classified within long-term debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The funds associated with the $12.5 million letter of credit were reclassified from cash and cash equivalents to long-term restricted cash on the condensed consolidated balance sheet at the time of the amendment in March2017. 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes due August2016 In August2011, the Company issued the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes to certain qualified institutional buyers, or QIBs. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), or Rule144A. The net proceeds from the $100million offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $96.1million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission were amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes bore interest at a rate of 3.75% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, beginning on February1, 2012. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes matured on August1, 2016. A portion of these notes were redeemed in January2016, and the remainder of these notes was redeemed on August1, 2016, as discussed further below. The 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes may convert their 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes at any time on or after May1, 2016 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to May1, 2016, holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes could convert their 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2011, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for each trading day of that Note Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; (3)if the Company calls any or all of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the redemption date; or (4)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 33rdbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate was 105.5548 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $9.47 per share of the Company s common stock). In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes was $75.9million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 10%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion 17 feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $24.1million. A portion of the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the offering costs totaling $0.9million was allocated to the equity conversion component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes using the effective interest method over five years. In January2016, the Company repurchased approximately $63.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for $66.6 million in cash. In August 2016, the Company settled the remaining 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes for approximately $36.6 million aggregate principal amount and $0.7 million accrued interest for approximately $37.3 million in cash. 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 In February2013, the Company issued $115.0million aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes to certain Qualified Institutional Buyers or QIBs. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes were offered and sold to the QIBs pursuant to Rule144A. The net proceeds from the offering, after deducting the initial purchaser s discount and commission and the related offering costs, were approximately $110.5million. The offering costs and the initial purchaser s discount and commission are both being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over five years. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.50% per year, payable semi-annually in arrears in cash on February1 and August1 of each year, which began on August1, 2013. The 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes will mature on February1, 2018, unless earlier repurchased, redeemed or converted. In April2014, through a series of transactions, the Company refinanced approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the Company s new 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 (the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes ). The 3.50% Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes at any time until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. The 3.50% Convertible Notes are convertible, as described below into common stock of the Company at an initial conversion rate equal to 187.6877 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment. Holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes who convert their 3.50% Convertible Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with guidance in ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC815-15, Embedded Derivatives, the Company determined that the embedded conversion components of the 3.50% Convertible Note do not require bifurcation and separate accounting. The remaining $44.7million principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Note has been recorded in short-term Debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March31, 2017. 18 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Senior Notes due February2018 In April2014, the Company entered into note exchange agreements with certain holders (the Participating Holders ) of the 3.50% Convertible Notes to refinance approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% Convertible Notes with approximately $70.3million aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. Pursuant to the note exchange agreements, the Company also paid the Participating Holders an aggregate of approximately $0.4million in cash in connection with such transactions. The principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Notes refinanced for each $1,000 principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $1,000 and the amount in cash paid per $1,000 principal amount of such 3.50% Convertible Notes delivered was determined in individual negotiations between the Company and each Participating Holder. The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes have the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the 3.50% Convertible Notes, except that the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at the Company s option. The 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes were issued under an Indenture between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their Securities at any time on or after November1, 2017 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Prior to November1, 2017, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may convert their securities only under the following circumstances: (1)during any calendar quarter after the calendar quarter ending September30, 2014, and only during such calendar quarter, if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for each of 20 or more trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter; (2)during the five consecutive business days immediately after any five consecutive trading-day period (such five consecutive trading-day period, the Note Measurement Period ) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes for each trading day of that Note Measurement Period was equal to or less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of shares of the Company s common stock and the applicable conversion rate for such trading day; or (3)upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions as described in the Indenture. Upon conversion by holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, the Company will have the right to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof, at the Company s election. At any time on or prior to the 17thbusiness day immediately preceding the maturity date, the Company may irrevocably elect to (a)deliver solely shares of common stock of the Company in respect of the Company s conversion obligation or (b)pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes to be converted and pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of common stock of the Company or a combination thereof in respect of the remainder, if any, of the Company s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes being converted. The initial conversion rate is 187.6877 shares of the Company s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $5.33 per share of the Company s common stock). The conversion rate, and thus the conversion price, is subject to adjustment as further described below. Holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes who convert their notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change , as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. Additionally, in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, holders of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, the Company separately accounts for the liability and equity conversion components of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes. The principal amount of the liability component of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $62.5million as of the date of issuance based on the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 7%, our approximate borrowing rate at the date of the issuance for a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature. The carrying value of the equity conversion component was $7.9million. In addition, the portion of the cash amount paid to the Participating Holders totaling $0.4 million was allocated to the debt discount with the remaining $47,000 to the equity component. The liability component is being accreted to the principal amount of the 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes using the effective interest method through the maturity in February2018. 19 The following table presents the carrying values of all Convertible Notes and notes issued pursuant to the Secured Loan (collectively, Notes ) as of March31, 2017 (in thousands): The net carrying amount of the equity conversion component related to the 3.5% SeriesA Convertible Note was approximately $7.8million at March31, 2017. The fair value of the Company s 3.50% Convertible Notes was $48.8million and $51.5million at March31, 2017 and June30, 2016, respectively. The fair value of the Company s 3.50% SeriesA Convertible Notes was $76.9million and $81.1million at March31, 2017 and June30, 2016, respectively. These borrowings are valued based on the closing trading price per $100 of the Convertible Notes as of the last day of trading for the period and are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. The carrying value of the Company s Secured Loan approximates its estimated fair value as these borrowings have a variable rate structure that is based on a market observable interest rate that resets periodically. The Secured Loan is classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. A summary of interest expense on the Notes is as follows (in thousands): 9. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss consist of net loss, unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments, changes in foreign currency exchange rate translation and net changes related to defined benefit pension plan. These components are excluded from earnings and reported as a component of stockholders equity. The foreign currency translation adjustment results from those subsidiaries not using the United States dollar as their functional currency since the majority of their economic activities are primarily denominated in their applicable local currency. Accordingly, all assets and liabilities related to these operations are translated at the current exchange rates at the end of each period. The resulting cumulative translation adjustments are recorded directly to the accumulated other comprehensive loss account in stockholders equity. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in effect during the period. The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the equity section of the balance sheets are as follows (in thousands): 10. Subsequent Events On April24, 2017, the Company decided to eliminate the role of Chief Operating Officer following the conclusion of fiscal year 2017. As a consequence, Kelly Londy, the Company s Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, will be leaving the Company on July5, 2017. 20 Item 2. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition as of March31, 2017 and results of operations for the three and nine months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.Statements made in this Form10-Q report that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements and are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements in this report relate, but are not limited, to: our future results of operations and financial position, including the sufficiency of cash resources and expected cash flows to fund future operations, including the next 12 months; our backlog and expectations regarding age-outs, cancellations of contracts and foreign currency impacts, the effects of our process improvements on age-outs, backlog and revenue; expected uses of cash during fiscal 2017; the anticipated drivers of our future capital requirements; the success of the multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC for the CyberKnife Systems, its impact on our business; our expectations regarding the factors that will impact long-term success, sales, competitive positioning and long-term success for our CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems; our belief that TomoTherapy Systems offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market; the anticipated risks associated with our foreign operations and fluctuations in the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies as well as our ability to mitigate such risks; the sufficiency of our cash, cash flow equivalents and investments to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures and our business strategy, plans and objectives.Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, plans, predicts, projects, may, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations, including those risks discussed in this quarterly report, in particular under the heading Risk Factors in PartII,Item 1A as well as the risks detailed in PartI,Item 1A of the Company s annual report on Form10-K for fiscal year 2016 , in PartII,Item 1A of the Company s quarterly reports on Form10-Q for the quarters ended September30, 2016, December31, 2016 and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made and are based on information available to the Company at the time those statements are made and/or management s good faith belief as of that time with respect to future events. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual performance or results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. In this report, Accuray, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Accuray Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Overview Products and Markets We are a radiation oncology company that develops, manufactures, sells and supports precise, innovative treatment solutions which set the standard of care, with the aim of helping patients live longer, better lives. Our leading-edge technologies, the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems, and Radixact, the next generation TomoTherapy System platform are designed to deliver advanced radiation therapy including radiosurgery, stereotactic body radiation therapy, intensity modulated radiation therapy, image-guided radiation therapy and adaptive radiation therapy tailored to the specific needs of each patient. The CyberKnife and TomoTherapy Systems are complementary offerings serving largely separate patient populations treated by the same medical specialty, radiation oncology, with advanced capabilities that offer increased treatment flexibility to meet the needs of an expanding patient population including patients requiring retreatment with radiation therapy. 21 The CyberKnife Systems The CyberKnife Systems are robotic systems designed to deliver radiosurgery treatments to cancer tumors anywhere in the body. The CyberKnife Systems are the only dedicated, full-body robotic radiosurgery systems on the market. Radiosurgery is an alternative to traditional surgery for tumors and is performed on an outpatient basis in one to five treatment sessions. It enables the treatment of patients who typically might not otherwise be treated with radiation, who may not be good candidates for surgery, or who desire non-surgical treatments. The use of radiosurgery with CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors throughout the body has grown significantly in recent years, but currently only a small portion of the patients who develop tumors treatable with CyberKnife Systems are treated with these systems. A determination of when it may or may not be appropriate to use a CyberKnife System for treatment is at the discretion of the treating physician and depends on the specific patient. However, the CyberKnife Systems are generally not used to treat (1)very large tumors, which are considerably wider than the radiation beam that can be delivered by CyberKnife Systems, (2)diffuse wide-spread disease, as is often the case for late stage cancers, because they are not localized (though CyberKnife Systems might be used to treat a focal area of the disease) and (3)systemic diseases, like leukemia and lymphoma, which are not localized to an organ, but rather involve cells throughout the body. Our CyberKnife M6 SeriesSystems have the option of: fixed collimator,Iris Variable Aperture Collimator and/or multi-leaf collimator, or InCise MLC. The InCise MLC is designed specifically for the M6 Series. With the addition of the InCise MLC, clinicians can deliver the same precise radiosurgery treatments they have come to expect with the CyberKnife System, faster and for a wider range of tumor types. The addition of the InCise MLC, now makes it faster and more efficient to treat a wider range of tumor types with the CyberKnife M6 SeriesSystem, including larger tumors and those with multiple sites of disease. We believe the long term success of the CyberKnife Systems is dependent on a number of factors including the following: Continued adoption of our CyberKnife M6 Series Systems; Production and shipment of InCise MLCs that meet the standards that we, and our customers, expect in our products; Change in medical practice leading to utilization of stereotactic body radiosurgery more regularly as an alternative to surgery or other treatments; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the benefits of radiosurgery conducted with the CyberKnife Systems; Continued evolution in clinical studies demonstrating the safety, efficacy and other benefits of using the CyberKnife Systems to treat tumors in various parts of the body; Continued advances in our technology that improve the quality of treatments and ease of use of the CyberKnife Systems; Receipt of regulatory approvals in various countries which are expected to improve access to radiosurgery with the CyberKnife Systems in such countries; Medical insurance reimbursement policies that cover CyberKnife System treatments; and Our ability to expand sales of CyberKnife Systems in countries throughout the world where we do not currently sell CyberKnife Systems. TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems The TomoTherapy Systems are advanced, fully integrated and versatile radiation therapy systems for the treatment of a wide range of cancer types. The TomoTherapy Systems are specifically designed for image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IG-IMRT). The TomoTherapy Systems include the TomoTherapy H SeriesSystems with configurations of TomoH, TomoHD and TomoHDA. Based on a CT scanner platform, the systems provide continuous delivery of radiation from 360 degrees around the patient, or delivery from clinician-specified beam angles. These unique features, combined with daily 3D image guidance, enable physicians to deliver highly accurate, individualized dose distributions which precisely conform to the shape of the patient s tumor while minimizing dose to normal, healthy tissue, resulting in fewer side effects for the patient. The TomoTherapy Systems are capable of treating all standard radiation therapy indications including breast, prostate, lung and head and neck cancers, in addition to complex and novel treatments such as total marrow irradiation. Radiation therapy has been widely available and used in developed countries for decades, though many developing countries do not currently have a sufficient number of radiation therapy systems to adequately treat their domestic cancer patient populations. The number of radiation therapy systems in use and sold each year is currently many times 22 larger than the number of radiosurgery systems. The new Radixact System is the next generation TomoTherapy platform and is currently approved for sale in the US, Europe, Japan and other territories. The Radixact System is a new, smart system with integrated Accuray Precision treatment planning software and the new iDMS Data Management System. The Radixact System leverages the TomoTherapy System s efficient daily low-dose fan beam MVCT image guidance and unique ring gantry architecture, delivering precise radiation treatments for more patients, faster, with simpler, more automated workflows. We believe the TomoTherapy Systems and the Radixact System offer clinicians and patients significant benefits over other radiation therapy systems in the market. We believe our ability to capture more sales will be influenced by a number of factors including the following : Continued adoption of our TomoTherapy Systems and adoption of the Radixact System in markets where it is available; Greater awareness among doctors and patients of the unique benefits of radiation therapy using TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems because of their ring gantry architecture and ability to deliver treatment from 360 degrees around the patient; Advances in our technology which improves the quality of treatments and ease of use of TomoTherapy and Radixact Systems; Greater awareness among doctors of the now-established reliability of TomoTherapy Systems; Our ability to expand sales of TomoTherapy Systems in countries throughout the world; and Our ability to scale up commercial launch of the Radixact System in those markets where it is approved. Sale of Our Products Generating revenue from the sale of our systems is a lengthy process. Selling our systems, from first contact with a potential customer to a signed sales contract that meets our backlog criteria (as discussed below) varies significantly and generally spans between six months and two years. The length of time between receipt of a signed contract and revenue recognition is generally governed by the time required by the customer to build, renovate or prepare the treatment room for installation of the system. In the United States, we primarily market directly to customers, including hospitals and stand-alone treatment facilities, through our sales organization and we also market to customers through sales agents and group purchasing organizations. Outside the United States, we market to customers directly and through distributors and sales agents. In addition to our offices in the United States, we have sales and service offices in Europe, Asia, and South America. Key Metrics Backlog For orders that cover both products and services, only the portion of the order that is recognizable as product revenue is reported as backlog. The portion of the order that is recognized as service revenue (for example, Post-Contract Customer Support (PCS), installation, training and professional services) is not included in reported backlog. Product backlog totaled $450.0million as of March31, 2017 compared to $405.9 million as of June30, 2016. In order for the product portion of a system sales agreement to be counted as backlog, it must meet the following criteria: The contract is properly executed by both the customer and us. A customer purchase order that incorporates the terms of our contract quote will be considered equivalent to a signed and executed contract. The contract has either cleared all its contingencies or contained no contingencies when signed. We have received a minimum deposit or a letter of credit; or the sale is to a customer where a deposit is deemed not necessary or customary (i.e. sale to a government entity, a large hospital, group of hospitals or cancer care group that has sufficient credit, customers with trade-in of existing equipment, sales via tender awards, or indirect channel sales that have signed contracts with end-customers); The specific end customer site has been identified by the customer in the written contract or written amendment; Less than 2.5 years have passed since the contract met all the criteria above. 23 Although our backlog includes only contractual agreements with our customers for the purchase of CyberKnife Systems, TomoTherapy Systems, Radixact System and related upgrades, we cannot provide assurance that we will convert backlog into recognized revenue due primarily to factors outside of our control. The amount of backlog recognized into revenue is primarily impacted by three items: cancellations, age-outs and foreign currency fluctuations. Orders could be cancelled for reasons including, without limitation, changes in customers needs or financial condition, changes in government or health insurance reimbursement policies, or changes to regulatory requirements. In addition to cancellations, after 2.5 years, if we have not been able to recognize revenue on a contract, we remove the revenue associated with the contract from backlog and the order is considered aged out. Contracts may age-out for many reasons, including but not limited to, inability of the customer to pay, inability of the customer to adapt their facilities to accommodate our products in a timely manner, or inability to timely obtain licenses necessary for customer facilities or operation of our equipment. Our backlog also includes amounts not denominated in U.S. Dollars and therefore fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar as compared to other currencies will impact backlog. Generally, strengthening of the U.S. Dollar will negatively impact revenue. Backlog is stated at historical foreign currency exchange rates, and revenue is released from backlog at current exchange rates, with any difference recorded as a backlog adjustment. A summary of gross orders, net orders, and order backlog is as follows (in thousands): Gross Orders Gross orders are defined as the sum of new orders recorded during the period adjusted for any revisions to existing orders during the period. Net orders are defined as gross orders less cancellations, age-outs and foreign exchange adjustments. Gross orders increased by $27.4million for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016. This was a result of an increase of $25.4million in new system order volume compared to the same prior year period. The CyberKnife System order volume drove the increase for this period as well as a slight increase in order volume for the TomoTherapy System. Upgrade orders and other adjustments increased by $2.0million in the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the same prior year period. Gross orders increased by $24.2million for the nine months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2016. This was a result of an increase of $16.7million in new system order volume compared to the same prior year period. The CyberKnife System order volume drove the increase for this period as well as a slight increase in order volume for the TomoTherapy System. Upgrade orders and other adjustments increased by $7.5million in the nine months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the same prior year period. Net Orders Net orders increased by $14.3million for the three months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016, resulting from the increase in gross orders of $27.4million. The increase was offset by foreign currency adjustments of $7.2million, net age-outs of $3.2million, and cancellations of $2.7million. There were age-outs of $8.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, a decrease of $2.3 million from the prior year period due to fewer systems exceeding the 2.5 year criteria specified above. The age-outs for the three months ended March 31, 2017 did not include any age-ins, which represent orders that have previously aged-out but have been taken to revenue in the current period. Age-ins offset the gross amount of age-outs in a particular period. There was $2.7 million in cancellations in the three months ended March 31, 2017, and no cancellations in the three months ended March 31, 2016. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. Currency impacts resulted in a decrease in net orders of $0.8 million and an increase of $6.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 24 Net orders increased by $18.1million for the nine months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2016, resulting from an increase in gross orders of $24.2million and fewer net age-outs of $3.8million. These items were partially offset by increased cancellations of $3.9million and unfavorable currency impacts of $6.0million as compared to the same prior year period. There were net age-outs of $39.0 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2017, a decrease of $3.8 million from the prior year period due to fewer systems exceeding the 2.5 year criteria specified above. The age-outs of $39.0 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 included age-ins of $1.9 million, which would represent orders that have previously aged-out but have been taken to revenue in the current period. Age-ins offset the gross amount of age-outs in a particular period. There were cancellations of $9.8 million and $6.0 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Cancellations are outside of our control and difficult to forecast; however, we continue to work closely with our customers to minimize the impact of cancellations on our business. Currency impacts resulted in a decrease in net orders of $0.6 million and an increase in net orders of $5.4 million in the nine months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Currently, we expect age-outs in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year to be approximately $17.0million as compared to $8.5million in age-outs recorded during the three months ended March31, 2017. Results of Operations Three and nine months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 (a) Expressed as a percentage of total net revenue, except for product and services gross profits which are expressed as a percentage of related product and services revenue. Net Revenue Product Net Revenue . Product net revenue decreased by $5.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016, primarily due to a decrease of $6.5 million in revenue from system sales resulting from a shift in product and channel mix as we had fewer units of the TomoTherapy systems taken to revenue offset by more CyberKnife systems as compared to the same period in the prior year. As our CyberKnife systems generally have a higher average sale price, but lower overall volumes, the overall net product revenue decreased year-over-year. In addition, the decrease in revenue is attributable to slower revenue conversion process mainly resulting from a higher percentage of order growth in our distributor channels which results in less control over the timing of revenue. The decrease in system revenue was partially offset by an increase of $0.8 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. Product net revenue decreased by $30.5million for the nine months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2016, primarily due to a decrease of $27.7million revenue from system sales resulting from fewer units of the CyberKnife and TomoTherapy systems taken to revenue as compared to the same period in the prior year. In addition, the decrease in revenue is attributable to slower revenue conversion process mainly resulting from a higher percentage of order growth in our distributor channels which results in less control over the timing of revenue. There was also a decrease of $2.8 million in upgrade and other revenue as compared to the prior year period. From time to time, we may amend sales agreements for system orders in backlog between Accuray and our distributors in order to shift responsibility of the installation of the system from us to the distributor. In such cases, the total purchase price of the system will be reduced accordingly as negotiated with the distributor on a case by case basis. This may result in us recognizing revenue for such systems earlier than previously anticipated. For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, there was no revenue recognized as a result of such amendments and in our second quarter ended December 31, 2016, less than 5% of our total revenue was recognized as a result of such amendments. 25 Services Net Revenue . Services net revenue decreased by $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. The decrease was driven by decreased installation and spare parts revenue of $1.5 million and a decrease in PCS and other revenue of $0.8 million. Services net revenue decreased by $2.0 million for the nine months ended March31, 2017, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2016. The decrease was driven by a decrease in training revenue of $1.3million, spare parts revenue of $2.2million and installation revenue of $1.9million. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in PCS revenue of $3.4million due to an expanding installed base. Percentage of net revenue by geographic region, based on the shipping location of our customers, is as follows (in thousands, except percentages): Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $58.6 million and $72.6 million for the three months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and represented 60% and 69% of our net revenue during these periods, respectively. Revenue derived from sales outside of the Americas region was $152.8million and $174.9million for the nine months ended March31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and represented 56% and 58% of our net revenue during these periods, respectively. Gross Profit Overall gross profit for the three months ended March31, 2017, decreased $9.5 million, or 21%, as compared to the three months ended March31, 2016. Product gross profit decreased 23%, or $5.7million, primarily due to the decrease in systems taken to revenue. Service gross profit decreased 19%, or $3.9million, as a result of lower service revenues of $2.3million and increased service costs of $1.6million resulting primarily from increased parts consumption and higher employee compensation costs. Overall gross profit for the nine months ended March31, 2017, decreased $23.3million, or 19%, as compared to the nine months ended March31, 2016. Product gross profit decreased 33%, or $21.0million, primarily due to the decrease in systems taken to revenue. Service gross profit decreased 4%, or $2.3million, as a result of lower service revenues of $2.0million and increased service costs of $0.3million resulting primarily from higher employee compensation costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses were $12.5 million in the three months ended March31, 2017 as compared to $13.3 million in the three months ended March31, 2016, which represents a decrease of $0.8 million, or 6%. The decrease was primarily due to a $0.7 million decrease in consulting fees as a result of completion of roadmap development projects and Radixact testing as well as a decrease of $0.4million in technology and facilities costs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in employee related compensation costs of $0.3 million. Research and development expenses were $36.7million in the nine months ended March31, 2017 as compared to $42.5million in the nine months ended March31, 2016, which represents a decrease of $5.8million, or 14%. The decrease was primarily due to a $3.2million decrease in consulting fees as a result of completion of roadmap development projects and completion of Radixact testing as well as decreased employee compensation related expenses of $0.8million due to lower headcount and delays in hiring as compared with the prior fiscal period. Additionally, there was a decrease of $0.5million in project-related expenses due to deferral of certain projects as well as a decrease of $1.3million in technology and facilities costs. 26 Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses for the three months ended March31, 2017 were $13.0million as compared to $12.5million for the three months ended March31, 2016, which represents an increase of $0.5million, or 4%. The increase was primarily due to $1.0million higher bonus-related compensation offset by lower marketing-related expenses of $0.3million which is driven primarily by the timing of tradeshows as well as a decrease in travel-related expense of $0.2million. Selling and marketing expenses for the nine months ended March31, 2017 were $41.2million as compared to $41.0million for the nine months ended March31, 2016, which represents an increase of $0.2million, or 1%. The increase was primarily because of higher outside services costs of $0.8million related to new marketing programs and $0.1million in marketing expenses related to trade shows and $0.1million in IT and facilities allocated expenses. The increase was offset by lower compensation expense related to a decrease in commission expense of $0.8million. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March31, 2017 were $11.2million as compared to $13.7million for the three months ended March31, 2016, which represents a decrease of $2.5million, or 18%. This decrease was mainly attributable to $3.8million in lower legal fees associated with litigation settlements in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016 and lower travel expenses of $0.1 million. These decreases were partially offset by increased employee compensation costs of $0.8 million and higher technology and facilities costs of $0.6 million. General and administrative expenses for the nine months ended March31, 2017 were $32.9million as compared to $39.8million for the nine months ended March31, 2016, which represents a decrease of $6.9million, or 17%. This decrease was mainly attributable to $9.5million in lower legal fees associated with litigation settlements during the first nine months of fiscal year 2016. This decrease was partially offset by increased employee compensation expenses of $0.8million and higher technology and facilities costs of $1.8million. Other Expense, net Other expense, net for the three months ended March31, 2017 was $2.9million as compared to $3.9million for the three months ended March31, 2016, which represents a decrease of $1.0million, or 26%. There was a decrease in interest expense of $1.2million due primarily to the settlement of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. In addition, there was a decrease in foreign exchange losses of $0.2 million, related primarily to foreign exchange hedging activities and a decrease of $0.9million related to loss on extinguishment of convertible debt that occurred in the prior year period. These decreases were offset by nonrecurring license royalty income of $1.3 million that was received in the prior year period. Other expense, net for the nine months ended March31, 2017 was $11.0million as compared to $14.1million for the nine months ended March31, 2016, which represents a decrease of $3.1million, or 22%. There was a decrease in interest expense of $2.6million due primarily to the settlement of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. In addition, there was a decrease in foreign exchange losses of $1.1million, related primarily to foreign exchange hedging activities and a decrease of $0.7million in debt extinguishment costs. These decreases were offset by nonrecurring license royalty income of $1.3 million that was received in the prior year period. Provision for Income Taxes On a quarterly basis, the Company provides for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective income tax rate. The Company recognized income taxes expense of $0.8million and $0.6million for the three and nine months ended March31, 2017, respectively. Income tax expense was $0.7 million and $2.3 million for the three and nine months ended March31, 2016, respectively. The decrease in tax expense for the three and nine months ended March31, 2017 as compared to the prior year comparable periods was due to a decrease in foreign earnings. In addition, the decline in income tax expense for the nine months ended March31, 2017 was attributable to the recognition of an income tax benefit of approximately $1.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 as a result of the completion of tax audits by the Swiss authorities for the period from fiscal 2011 through fiscal 2015. 27 Liquidity and Capital Resources At March31, 2017, we had $60.2million in cash and cash equivalents and $23.9million in short-term investments, for a total of $84.1million. Refer to Note 8, Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements for discussion of the Convertible Notes and our Senior Secured Term Loan. Based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that we will have sufficient cash resources and anticipated cash flows to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of March31, 2017, we had approximately $42.5million of cash and cash equivalents at our foreign subsidiaries. We intend to permanently reinvest the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries and, accordingly, no provisions for U.S. income taxes have been provided thereon. However, if a portion of these funds were needed for and distributed to our operations in the United States, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. The amount of taxes due would depend on the amount and manner of repatriation, as well as the country from which the funds were repatriated. Our cash flows for the nine months ended March31, 2017 and 2016 are summarized as follows (in thousands): Cash Flows From Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $24.1million in the nine months ended March31, 2017 and consisted of a net loss of $24.3million, non-cash items of $28.3million, and a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $28.0million. Non-cash items consisted primarily of depreciation and amortization expense of $13.8million, stock-based compensation expense of $10.0million and accretion of interest on debt of $2.1million. The significant items in the change in operating assets and liabilities include cash used resulting from increases in accounts receivable of $30.6million, and other current and non-current assets of $1.4million. These uses of cash were offset in part by an increase in accounts payable of $8.2million, which was offset by a decrease in deferred revenue of $2.9million, and other current and non-current liabilities of $1.3million. The increase in accounts receivable is a function of an increase in sales over the previous quarter and the timing of payments from customers driven by longer payment terms offered. Net cash provided by operating activities was $11.1million in the nine months ended March31, 2016, and consisted of a net loss of $18.3million and non-cash items of $32.9million, offset by a net change in operating assets and liabilities of $3.5million. Non-cash items consisted primarily of depreciation and amortization expense of $13.6million, stock-based compensation expense of $9.4million, and accretion of interest on debt of $5.2million. The significant items in the change in operating assets and liabilities include cash used resulting from increases in inventory of $11.3million, accounts receivable of $10.3million, and other current and non-current assets of $5.9million. These uses of cash were offset in part by an increase in accounts payable of $8.7million, deferred revenue of $13.8million and current and non-current liabilities of $1.6million. We experienced an increase in inventory to support expected customer demand. The increase in accounts receivable is a function of the increase in sales as well as the timing of payments from customers. The increase in deferred revenue is primarily driven by increases in revenue deferral during the period in excess of deferred revenue recognized for the period. Cash Flows From Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $19.6million for the nine months ended March31, 2017, which primarily consisted of the sales and maturities of investments of $38.2million, offset by the purchases of short-term investments of $15.0million and purchases of property and equipment of $3.6million. Net cash used in investing activities was $12.9 million for the nine months ended March31, 2016, which primarily consisted of purchases of short-term investments of $52.7 million and purchases of property and equipment of $5.9 million partially offset by sales and maturities of investments of $45.7 million. 28 Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during the nine months ended March31, 2017 was $41.4million, which was primarily due to $36.6million in payments made to convertible note holders for the settlement of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes, the $5.0million early payment on the Secured Loan as discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements and installment payments of $2.1million on the Secured Loan. In addition, there were $3.1million in proceeds from employee stock plans which was partially offset by $0.8million taxes paid related to net share settlements of equity awards. Net cash used in financing activities during the nine months ended March31, 2016 was $1.0 million which was a combination of $65.5 million in payments made to convertible note holders, partially offset by $64.6 million in proceeds from debt issuance, net of costs associated with our $70.0 million straight debt financing and related repurchase of $63.4 million of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes discussed in Note 8 to the financial statements. In addition, there were $3.0 million in proceeds from employee stock plans which was partially offset by $3.0 million taxes paid related to net share settlements of equity awards. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our future capital requirements depend on numerous factors. These factors include but are not limited to the following: Revenue generated by sales of our products and service plans; Costs associated with our sales and marketing initiatives and manufacturing activities; Facilities, equipment and IT systems required to support current and future operations; Rate of progress and cost of our research and development activities; Costs of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances of our products; Effects of competing technological and market developments; and Number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least 12months. If our cash and cash equivalents are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and marketing efforts. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We presented our contractual obligations in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the fiscal year ended June30, 2016. As discussed in Note 8, in August 2016, we settled the remaining approximately $36.6 million in aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% Convertible Senior Notes and accrued interest for $37.3 million in cash. In November 2016, we also repaid $5.0 million of our Secured Loan. In addition, we signed a lease extension in October 2016 on our Madison, Wisconsin facility through 2025, which would have expired in 2018 (Refer to Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies for a detail schedule of lease obligations). Except for the change in debt and lease obligations, there has been no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the nine months ended March 31, 2017. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March31, 2017. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of 29 the consolidated financial statements, as well as revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities. Actual results could therefore differ materially from those estimates if actual conditions differ from our assumptions. During the three and nine months ended March31, 2017, we considered our estimated corporate bonus accrual to be a critical accounting estimate. The Company s bonus accrual for each quarter is based on its performance against Company defined metrics: net revenue, adjusted EBITDA and gross orders to backlog. There have been no changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates, as discussed in PartII,Item 7 of our Form10-K for the year ended June30, 2016, which we believe are those related to revenue recognition, assessment of recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets, valuation of inventories, share-based compensation expense, income taxes, allowance for doubtful accounts and loss contingencies.