ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (1) (2) (Unaudited) (1) Amounts reflected adoption of FASB ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes in the first quarter of 2016. (2) Amounts reflected adoption of FASB ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs in the first quarter of 2016. See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) NOTE 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company or AMD) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The results of operations for the quarter ended March 26, 2016 shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year ending December31, 2016 . In the opinion of the Company's management, the information contained herein reflects all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December26, 2015 . The Company uses a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended March26, 2016 and March28, 2015 each consisted of 13 weeks, respectively. Principles of Consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the Company's accounts and those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Income Tax .In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (ASU 2015-17) , which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring that all deferred tax assets and liabilities to be classified as non-current on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company has adopted ASU 2015-17 prospectively in the first quarter of 2016. As of March 26, 2016, the Company netted $31 million of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, respectively, and reclassified $8 million current deferred tax assets and $6 million current deferred tax liabilities to non-current deferred tax assets and liabilities, respectively, on its condensed consolidated balance sheet. The prior period information was not retrospectively adjusted. Interest-Imputation of Interest. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs (ASU 2015-03) , which requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. ASU 2015-03 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015 and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The new guidance will be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015 -15 to amend ASU 2015-03 and address debt issuance costs related to line-of-credit arrangements. ASU 2015-15 allows an entity to present debt issuance costs related to a line-of-credit as an asset and subsequently amortize the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings on the arrangement. This accounting standard update did not impact the effective date of the previously issued guidance. The Company retrospectively adopted ASU 2015-03 and 2015-15 in the first quarter of 2016. As a result, the Company r eclassified the financing costs from long term assets to long term debt by $23 million and $25 million as of March 26, 2016 and December 26, 2015, respectively, on its consolidated balance sheets. Inventory. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU 2015-11), which simplifies the measurement of inventory by requiring certain inventory to be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2015-11 on its consolidated financial statements. Disclosure of Going Concern Uncertainties. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (ASU 2014-15) , which provides guidance on management's responsibility in evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about a company's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. ASU 2014-15 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2016, and for interim and annual periods therein with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2014-15 on its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic606 (ASU 2014-09), which creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies in all industries. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that revenue should be recognized in a manner that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services 7 to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 defines a five-step process in order to achieve this core principle, which may require the use of judgment and estimates. ASU 2014-09 also requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures relating to the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers, including significant judgments and estimates used. In July 2015, FASB announced a decision to defer the effective date for this ASU. ASU 2014-09 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2018 with early adoption permitted (for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016). The Company may adopt ASU 2014-09 either by using a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU2014-09 on its consolidated financial statements and has not yet determined which approach it will apply. Financial Instruments. In January 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU 2016-01), which provides guidance related to accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, FASB clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-01 on its consolidated financial statements. Leases. During February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases . (ASU 2016-02), which increases transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing all lease transactions (with terms in excess of 12 months) on the balance sheet as a lease liability and a right-of-use asset (as defined). ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early application permitted. Upon adoption, the lessee will apply the new standard retrospectively to all periods presented or retrospectively using a cumulative effect adjustment in the year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. Investments . In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07, Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting (ASU 2016-07), whichrequires the equity method investor to add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment qualifies for equity method accounting. ASU 2016-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years with early application permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-07 on its consolidated financial statements. Stock Compensation. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Stock Compensation (ASU 2016-09), which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-09 on its consolidated financial statements. Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB, which the Company has adopted or will adopt, as applicable, the Company does not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or operating results. NOTE 2. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which the Company purchases products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Fifth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On April16, 2015 , the Company entered into a fifth amendment to the WSA. The primary effect of the fifth amendment was to establish volume purchase commitments and fixed pricing for the 2015 calendar year as well as to modify certain other terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for some of the Company's microprocessor unit, graphics processor unit and semi-custom products to be delivered by GF to the Company during the 2015 calendar year. The Company's total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the quarters ended March26, 2016 and March28, 2015 were $208 million and $170 million , respectively. The Company's currently known purchase obligations to GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $300 million which include certain wafer deliveries under the fifth amendment to the WSA that had been delayed to fiscal 2016. The Company is not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate its future purchase obligations to GF beyond this 8 amount because it is currently in the process of negotiating a sixth amendment to the WSA. The Company expects that its future purchases from GF will continue to be material. GF continues to be a related party of the Company because Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala) and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), the Company's largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. NOTE 3. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Inventories Other Current Assets Property, Plant and Equipment Other Assets Accrued Liabilities 9 Other Current Liabilities NOTE 4. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On October15, 2015 , the Company entered into an Equity Interest Purchase Agreement (the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement) with Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a Chinese joint stock company (JV Party), under which the Company will sell to JV Party a majority of the equity interests in AMD Technologies (China) Co. Ltd., a wholly-foreign owned enterprise incorporated as a limited liability company (the Chinese Target Company) and Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., a Malaysian limited liability company (the Malaysian Target Company) and, together with the Chinese Target Company, (the Target Companies), thereby forming two joint ventures (collectively, the JVs) with JV Party in a transaction valued at approximately $436 million (the Transaction). The JV Party will acquire 85% of the equity interests in each JV for approximately $371 million , excluding purchase price adjustments, and the Company estimates it will receive approximately $320 million in cash, net of taxes and other customary expenses. After closing, JV Party's affiliates will own 85% of the equity interests in each JV while certain of the Company's subsidiaries will own the remaining 15% . The Transaction will result in the JVs providing assembly, testing, marking, packing and packaging (ATMP) services to the Company. The Company plans to account for its investment in the JVs under the equity method of accounting. The Equity Interest Purchase Agreement also has related agreements including: (i) with respect to the Malaysian Target Company, a Shareholders' Agreement, and with respect to the Chinese Target Company, a Joint Venture Contract governing the joint venture relationships from and after the Closing, (ii) an IP License Agreement, (iii) a Manufacturing Services Agreement, (iv) a Transition Services Agreement, and (v) a Trademark License Agreement. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2016, pending all regulatory and other approvals. As a result of the decision to form the above JVs, the balance sheets as of March 26, 2016 and December 26, 2015 reflect held-for-sale accounting of the ATMP assets and liabilities which requires reclassification of such financial amounts to current assets and current liabilities. As of March 26, 2016, the Company reclassified $205 million to other current assets and $73 million to other current liabilities. Asset balances reclassified into other current assets are primarily comprised of property, plant, and equipment of $131 million , goodwill of $42 million and inventory of $14 million . Liability balances reclassified into other current liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts payable of $65 million . The balances included in the final gain/(loss) calculation, at closing, are likely to be different due to normal operational activities occurring through the closing date. 10 NOTE 5. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, the Company and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner) formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2, (collectively, the China JVs). The Company's equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by the Company's contribution of certain of its patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the China JVs' operations. The Company has no obligations to fund the China JVs. The China JVs' primary purpose is to support the Company's expansion into the server product market in China. The Company licensed certain of its intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the China JVs for a total of approximately $293 million in license fees payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. The Company also expects to receive a royalty based on the sales of the China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. The Company will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the China JVs in connection with the product development. The Company concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. The Company determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2 and will not consolidate either of these entities. The Company accounts for its investments in the China JVs under the equity method of accounting. Income related to the Licensed IP will be recognized over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires the Company's continuing involvement in the product development process, and thereafter, together with royalty payments,will be recognized in income once earned. The Company will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. The Company recognized $7 million of operating income related to the Licensed IP in the three months ended March 26, 2016. The Company's total exposure to losses through its investment into the China JVs is limited to the Company's investments in the China JVs, which was zero as of March 26, 2016. The Company's share in the net losses of the China JVs for the three months ended March 26, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of operations since the Company is not obligated to fund the China JVs losses in excess of the Company's investment in the China JVs. As of March 26, 2016 the total assets and liabilities of the China JVs were not material. NOTE 6. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Diluted net loss per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive shares outstanding. Potentially dilutive shares include stock options and restricted stock units. The following table sets forth the components of basic and diluted loss per share: Potential sharesfrom stock options and restricted stock units totaling 50 million and 64 million were not included in the net loss per share calculations for the first quarters of 2016 and 2015 , respectively, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. 11 NOTE 7.Financial Instruments Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and financial instruments measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis as of March26, 2016 and December26, 2015 are summarized below: (1) The Company did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level2 of the fair value hierarchy during the quarter ended March 26, 2016 or the year ended December 26, 2015. (2) The Company's Level 2 short-term investments are valued using broker reports that utilize quoted market prices for identical or comparable instruments. Brokers gather observable inputs for all of the Company's fixed income securities from a variety of industry data providers and other third-party sources. Available-for-sale securities held by the Company as of March26, 2016 and December26, 2015 consisted of commercial paper. The amortized cost of available-for-sale securities approximated the fair value for all periods presented. In addition to those amounts presented above, as of March26, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Company had approximately $1 million of available-for-sale investments in money market funds, used as collateral for letters of credit deposits, which were included in Other current assets and Other assets, respectively, on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March 26, 2016 and December 26, 2015. These money market funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized costs are the same as the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these deposits. Also in addition to those amounts presented above, as of March26, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Company had approximately $12 million and $15 million , respectively, of available-for-sale investments in mutual funds held in a Rabbi trust established for the Company's deferred compensation plan, which were included in Other assets on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These mutual funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these investments. Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis. The Company carries its financial instruments at fair value with the exception of its debt. Financial instruments that are not recorded at fair value are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes. The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of financial instruments not recorded at fair value are as follows: (1) Carrying amounts of long-term debt are net of unamortized debt issuance costs of $23 million as of March 26, 2016 and $25 million as of December 26, 2015, based on the adoption of ASU 2015-03. The Company's short-term and long-term debt are classified within Level 2. The fair value of the debt was estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The fair value of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable and other short-term obligations approximate their carrying value based on existing payment terms. 12 Hedging Transactions and Derivative Financial Instruments Cash Flow Hedges The following table shows the amount of gain (loss) included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the amount of gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and included in earnings related to the foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges and the amount of gain (loss) included in other income (expense), net, related to contracts not designated as hedging instruments, which was allocated in the condensed consolidated statements of operations: The Company's foreign currency derivative contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets, such as currency spot and forward rates. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other current assets should the foreign currency forward contracts be in a gain position or included in Other current liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. These amounts were recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as follows: For the foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portions of the hedging relationship and the amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were immaterial. As of March26, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the notional values of the Company's outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $190 million and $156 million , respectively. All the contracts mature within 12 months, and, upon maturity, the amounts recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are expected to be reclassified into earnings. The Company hedges its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions over a maximum of 12 months. Fair Value Hedges The Company's fair value hedge derivative contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other assets should the fair value hedge derivative contracts be in a gain position or included in Other long-term liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. These amounts were recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as follows: 13 NOTE 8. Income Taxes In the first quarter of 2016 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $1 million , consisting of $3 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations, partially offset by $2 million of tax benefits arising from other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In the first quarter of 2015, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $3 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations. As of March26, 2016 , substantially all of the Company's U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income which, as of March26, 2016 , in management's estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. The Company's total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of March26, 2016 were $39 million . The Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that other unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of tax audits are highly uncertain. NOTE 9. Segment Reporting Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the Company's Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. The Company has the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of its intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, the Company has an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Also included in this category are amortization of acquired intangible assets, employee stock-based compensation expense and restructuring and other special charges, net. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: 14 NOTE 10. Stock-Based Incentive Compensation Plans The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which is allocated within the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: For all periods presented, the Company did no t realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related financing cash flows. Stock Options In the first quarter of 2016, the Company did no t grant any employee stock options to its employees. The weighted average assumptions applied in the lattice-binomial model that the Company uses to estimate the fair value of employee stock options are as follows: In the first quarter of 2015 , the Company granted 0.2 million shares of employee stock options, with weighted average grant date fair value per share of $1.29 . Restricted Stock Units In the first quarters of 2016 and 2015, the Company granted 0.8 million and 5.3 million shares restricted stock units, respectively, with weighted average grant date fair values per share of $2.14 and $2.53 , respectively. NOTE 11. Commitments and Contingencies Warranties and Indemnities The Company generally warrants that its products sold to its customers will conform to the Company's approved specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service for one year. Subject to certain exceptions, the Company also offers a three-year limited warranty to end users for only those central processing unit (CPU) and AMD accelerated processing unit (APU) products that are commonly referred to as "processors in a box" and for certain server CPU products. The Company also offered extended limited warranties to certain customers of "tray" microprocessor products and/or professional graphics products who have written agreements with the Company and target their computer systems at the commercial and/or embedded markets. Changes in the Company's estimated liability for product warranty were as follows: 15 In addition to product warranties, the Company, from time to time in its normal course of business, indemnifies other parties, with whom it enters into contractual relationships, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. In these limited matters, the Company has agreed to hold certain third parties harmless against specific types of claims or losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, third-party claims that the Company's products when used for their intended purpose(s) and under specific conditions infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, or other specified claims made against the indemnified party. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under these indemnification obligations due to the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim and indemnification provision. Historically, payments made by the Company under these obligations have not been material. Contingencies Securities Class Action On January15, 2014, a class action lawsuit captioned Hatamian v. AMD, et al. , C.A. No.3:14-cv-00226 (the "Hatamian Lawsuit") was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual officers for alleged violations of Section10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.The plaintiffs seek to represent a proposed class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company's common stock during the period April4, 2011 through October18, 2012.The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual officers regarding the Company's 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period.The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On July 7, 2014, the Company filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs' claims. On March 31, 2015, the Court denied the motion to dismiss. On May 14, 2015, the Company filed its answer to plaintiffs' corrected amended complaint. On September 4, 2015, plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification, and on March 16, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs' motion. A court-ordered mediation held in January 2016 did not result in a settlement of the lawsuit. The discovery process is ongoing. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits On March 20, 2014, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Wessels v. Read, et al. , Case No. 1:14 cv-262486 ("Wessels") was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the Santa Clara County Superior Court of the State of California. The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual directors and officers regarding its 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period. On April 27, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Christopher Hamilton and David Hamilton v. Barnes, et al. , Case No. 5:15-cv-01890 ("Hamilton") was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-01890. On September 29, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Jake Ha v Caldwell, et al., Case No. 3:15-cv-04485 ("Ha") was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit also seeks a court order voiding the shareholder 16 vote on the Company's 2015 proxy. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-04485. The Wessels, Hamilton and Ha shareholder derivative lawsuits are currently stayed. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Other Legal Matters The Company is a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that arose in the normal course of business. With respect to these matters, based on the management's current knowledge, the Company believes that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss, if any, will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. NOTE 12. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on its ongoing efforts to simplify its business and better align resources around its priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan largely involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and includes organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the third quarter of 2016. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first quarter of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March26, 2016 : 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of its real estate footprint with its reduced headcount. In the first quarter of 2015, the Company recorded a $12 million restructuring charge, which consisted of $5 million for severance and benefit costs and $7 million for facilities related costs. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was largely completed by the end of the third quarter of 2015. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first quarter of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March26, 2016 : 17 Dense Server Systems Business Exit As a part of the Company's strategy to simplify and sharpen its investment focus, the Company exited the dense server systems business, formerly SeaMicro, in the first quarter of 2015. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $75 million in Restructuring and other special charges, net on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first quarter of 2015. This charge consisted of an impairment charge of $62 million related to the acquired intangible assets. The Company concluded that the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets associated with its dense server systems business was fully impaired as the Company did not have plans to utilize the related freedom fabric technology in any of its future products nor did it have any plans at that time to monetize the associated intellectual property. In addition, the exit charge consisted of a $6 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million of severance and related benefits and $3 million for contract or program termination costs. The Company has substantially completed this exit activity during the first quarter of 2016. NOTE 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The tables below summarize the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component: NOTE 14. Secured Revolving Line of Credit At March26, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $230 million , at an interest rate of 4.03% and 4.00% , respectively.At March26, 2016 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit also had $15 million related to outstanding Letters of Credit, and up to $79 million available for future borrowings. The Company reports its intra-period changes in its revolving credit balance on a net basis in its condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as the Company intends the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days. As of March26, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all required covenants stated in the Loan Agreement. 18 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates," "anticipates," or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: demand for AMD's products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; future restructuring activities; the nature and extent of AMD's future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF) and the materiality of these payments; the materiality of AMD's future purchases from GF; statements regarding the proposed joint ventures (the JVs) between AMD and Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co. Ltd., including the JVs' expected future performance (including expected results of operations and financial guidance); benefits from the proposed JVs; the JVs' future financial condition, operating results, strategy and plans; statements about regulatory and other approvals; the closing date for the proposed transaction and the amount to be received at closing; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMD's expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; sales patterns of AMD's PC products and semi-custom SoC products for game consoles; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; AMD's expected completion of its restructuring plan announced in October 2015 (the 2015 Restructuring Plan); that other unrecognized tax benefits will not materially change in the next 12 months; AMD's cash and cash equivalents balances, the savings from its restructuring plans and the secured revolving line of credit (Secured Revolving Line of Credit) will be sufficient to fund AMD's operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMD's ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD's expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the securities class action and the shareholder derivative suit will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; its dependence on a small number of customers for a substantial part of its revenue; its hedging strategy; its expenditures related to environmental compliance and conflict minerals disclosure requirements; and AMD does not expect to pay dividends in the future. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: Intel Corporation's dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit AMD's ability to compete effectively; AMD relies on GF to manufacture all of its microprocessor and APU products and a certain portion of its GPU products, with limited exceptions. If GF is not able to satisfy AMD's manufacturing requirements, its business could be adversely impacted; AMD relies on third parties to manufacture its products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, AMD's business could be materially adversely affected; failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for AMD's products could negatively impact its financial results; the success of AMD's business is dependent upon its ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to its customers while supporting and coinciding with significant industry transitions; if AMD cannot generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow or obtain external financing, it may face a cash shortfall and be unable to make all of its planned investments in research and development or other strategic investments; the loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on AMD; global economic uncertainty may adversely impact AMD's business and operating results; AMD may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations or meet its working capital requirements; AMD has a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial position and prevent it from implementing its strategy or fulfilling its contractual obligations; the agreements governing AMD's notes and the Secured Revolving Line of Credit impose restrictions on AMD that may adversely affect its ability to operate its business; the completion and impact of the 2015 Restructuring Plan, its transformation initiatives and any future restructuring actions could adversely affect it; the markets in which AMD's products are sold are highly competitive; uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of AMD's products could materially adversely affect it; AMD's receipt of revenue from its semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon its technology being designed into third-party products and the success of those products; the demand for AMD's products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for AMD's products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations; AMD's ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property; AMD depends on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software and other computer platform components to support its business; if AMD loses Microsoft Corporation's support for its products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on AMD's products, its ability to sell its products could be materially adversely affected; AMD's reliance on third-party distributors and AIB partners subjects it to certain risks; AMD's inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel may hinder its product development programs; in the event of a change of control, AMD may not be able to repurchase its outstanding debt as required by the applicable indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit, which would result in a default under the indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit; the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect its business 19 in the future; acquisitions, divestitures and/or joint ventures could disrupt its business, harm its financial condition and operating results or dilute, or adversely affect the price of, its common stock; AMD's business is dependent upon the proper functioning of its internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt its business, processes and internal controls; data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise AMD's intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to its business and reputation; AMD's operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns; if essential equipment, materials or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture its products, AMD could be materially adversely affected; if AMD's products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, it could be materially adversely affected; costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on AMD; if AMD fails to maintain the efficiency of its supply chain as it responds to changes in customer demand for its products, its business could be materially adversely affected; AMD outsources to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of its product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services; AMD may incur future impairments of goodwill; AMD's worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on it; worldwide political conditions may adversely affect demand for AMD's products; unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect AMD; AMD's inability to effectively control the sales of its products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on it; if AMD cannot adequately protect its technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, it may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses; AMD is a party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause it to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit it from selling its products; AMD's business is subject to potential tax liabilities; and a variety of environmental laws that AMD is subject to could result in additional costs and liabilities. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see "PartII, Item1A-Risk Factors" beginning on page 35 and "Financial Condition" beginning on page28 and other risks and uncertainties set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 20 AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Sony is a trademark of Sony Corporation. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements andrelated notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014, and for each of the three years in the period ended December26, 2015 as filed in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December26, 2015. Overview We are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Within the global semiconductor industry, we offer primarily: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated as an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products and technology for game consoles and licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, "us," "our" or "AMD"), including a discussion of our results of operations for the quarter ended March26, 2016 compared to the quarter ended March28, 2015 , an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. Net revenue in the first quarter of 2016 was $832 million, a 19% decrease compared to the first quarter of 2015. The year over year decrease was primarily due to a 14% decrease in Computing and Graphics net revenue and a 25% decrease in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The decrease in Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to lower sales of our notebook processors. The decrease in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment net revenue was primarily driven by lower sales of our semi-custom SoCs. Gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, for the first quarter of 2016 was 32%, flat compared to the first quarter of 2015. The foundation of our growth strategy is building great products with solid execution. During the first quarter of 2016, we continued to execute our product roadmap and delivered new products. In February 2016, we demonstrated our upcoming 2016 Polaris GPU architecture featuring AMD's 4 th generation Graphics Core Next architecture, which was sampled to OEMs in the first quarter of 2016. We launched the AMD A10-7860K APU designed to help enable smooth play of online games and AMD Athlon X4 845 desktop processor, which features our "Excavator" x86 architecture. We announced our 3 rd generation AMD embedded G-Series SoCs and Embedded G-Series LX SoCs designed to expand developers' ability to scale x86 platforms. We continued to expand our leadership position in Virtual Reality (VR) by introducing AMD Radeon Pro Duo, a platform aimed at most all aspects of VR content creation. Also, during the first quarter of 2016, we and a third-party Chinese entity formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the China JVs). We also licensed certain of our intellectual property to the China JVs for a total of approximately $293 million in license fees payable over several years contingent upon the achievement of certain milestones. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the first quarter of 2016 were $716 million, compared to $785 million as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2015. Total debt as of the end of the first quarter of 2016 was $2.2 billion, flat from the prior year. 21 GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which we purchase products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Fifth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On April 16, 2015, we entered into a fifth amendment to the WSA. The primary effect of the fifth amendment was to establish volume purchase commitments and fixed pricing for the 2015 calendar year as well as to modify certain other terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for some of our microprocessor unit, graphics processor unit and semi-custom products to be delivered by GF to us during the 2015 calendar year. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the quarters ended March26, 2016 and March28, 2015 were $208 million and $170 million , respectively. Our currently known purchase obligations to GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $300 million which include certain wafer deliveries under the fifth amendment to the WSA that had been delayed to fiscal 2016. We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount because we are currently in the process of negotiating a sixth amendment to the WSA. We expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. GF continues to be a related party of AMD because Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala) and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), our largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On October15, 2015 , we entered into an Equity Interest Purchase Agreement (the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement) with Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a Chinese joint stock company (JV Party), under which we will sell to JV Party a majority of the equity interests in AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd., a wholly-foreign owned enterprise incorporated as a limited liability company (the Chinese Target Company) and Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., a Malaysian limited liability company (the Malaysian Target Company) and, together with the Chinese Target Company, (the Target Companies), thereby forming two joint ventures (collectively, the JVs) with JV Party in a transaction valued at approximately $436 million (the Transaction). The JV Party will acquire 85% of the equity interests in each JV for approximately $371 million , excluding purchase price adjustments, and we estimate we will receive approximately $320 million in cash, net of taxes and other customary expenses. After closing, JV Party's affiliates will own 85% of the equity interests in each JV while certain of our subsidiaries will own the remaining 15% . The Transaction will result in the JVs providing assembly, testing, marking, packing and packaging (ATMP) services to us. We plan to account for our investment in the JVs under the equity method of accounting. The Equity Interest Purchase Agreement also has related agreements including: (i) with respect to the Malaysian Target Company, a Shareholders' Agreement, and with respect to the Chinese Target Company, a Joint Venture Contract governing the joint venture relationships from and after the Closing, (ii) an IP License Agreement, (iii) a Manufacturing Services Agreement, (iv) a Transition Services Agreement, and (v) a Trademark License Agreement. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2016, pending all regulatory and other approvals. As a result of the decision to form the above JVs, the balance sheets as of March 26, 2016 and December 26, 2015 reflect held-for-sale accounting of the ATMP assets and liabilities which requires reclassification of such financial amounts to current assets and current liabilities. As of March 26, 2016, we reclassified $205 million to other current assets and $73 million to other current liabilities. Asset balances reclassified into other current assets are primarily comprised of property, plant, and equipment of $131 million , goodwill of $42 million and inventory of $14 million . Liability balances reclassified into other current liabilities are primarily comprised of accounts payable of $65 million . The balances included in the final gain/(loss) calculation, at closing, are likely to be different due to normal operational activities occurring through the closing date. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, we and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner) formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the China JVs). Our equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by our contribution of certain of our patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the China JVs' operations. We have no obligations to fund the China JVs. The China JVs' primary purpose is to support our expansion into the server product market in China. We licensed certain of our intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the China JVs for a total of approximately $293 million in license fees payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. We also expect to receive 22 a royalty based on the sales of the China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. We will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the China JVs in connection with the product development. We concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. We determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2 and we will not consolidate either of these entities. We account for our investments in the China JVs under the equity method of accounting. Income related to the Licensed IP will be recognized over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires our continuing involvement in the product development process, and thereafter, together with royalty payments, will be recognized in income once earned. We will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. We recognized $7 million of operating income related to the Licensed IP in the three months ended March 26, 2016. Our total exposure to losses through our investment into the China JVs is limited to our investments in the China JVs, which was zero as of March 26, 2016. Our share in the net losses of the China JVs for the three months ended March 26, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of operations since we are not obligated to fund the China JVs losses in excess of our investment in the China JVs. As of March 26, 2016 the total assets and liabilities of the China JVs were not material. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with management's expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended March26, 2016 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December26, 2015 . We will perform an annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter of 2016 pursuant to our accounting policy. However, we will also test for goodwill impairment at any time during the year if there are indicators of impairment present. If there are declines in our market capitalization, business climate or operating results, we may incur impairment charges that could be material. 23 Results of Operations Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses our operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. We have the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete GPUs and professional graphics; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Also included in this category are amortization of acquired intangible assets, employee stock-based compensation expense and restructuring and other special charges, net. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended March26, 2016 and March28, 2015 each consisted of 13 weeks. Our operating results tend to vary seasonally. For example, historically, first quarter PC product sales are generally lower than fourth quarter sales. In addition, with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles, we expect sales patterns to follow the seasonal trends of a consumer business with sales in the first half of the year being lower than sales in the second half of the year. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income/(loss) by segment: Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $460 million in the first quarter of 2016 decreased by 14% , compared to net revenue of $532 million in the first quarter of 2015 , as a result of an 11% decrease in unit shipments and a 5% decrease in average selling price. The decrease in unit shipments was primarily attributable to lower unit shipments of our notebook microprocessor products due to lower demand. The decrease in average selling price was primarily attributable to a shift in our product mix to lower end notebook microprocessor products, partially offset by a higher average selling price of our AIB products. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $70 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to an operating loss of $75 million in the first quarter of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to a decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by the decrease in net revenue referenced above and associated cost of sales. Operating expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. 24 Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $372 million in the first quarter of 2016 decreased by 25% compared to net revenue of $498 million in the first quarter of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to lower unit shipments of our semi-custom SoC products. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $16 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to operating income of $45 million in the first quarter of 2015 . The decline in operating results was primarily due to the decrease in net revenue referenced above and associated cost of sales, partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses and a $7 million IP licensing gain related to the Licensed IP to the China JVs. Operating expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. All Other All Other operating loss of $14 million in the first quarter of 2016 primarily included stock-based compensation expense of $16 million. All Other operating loss of $107 million in the first quarter of 2015 included restructuring and other special charges, net of $87 million, stock-based compensation expense of $17 million and $3 million related to amortization of acquired intangible assets. Restructuring and other special charges, net of $87 million included $75 million related to our decision to exit from the dense server systems business and $12 million related to our 2014 Restructuring Plan. International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 85% in the first quarter of 2016 and 75% in the first quarter of 2015 . The increase in international sales as a percentage of net revenue in the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015 was primarily driven by a lower proportion of revenue from domestic sales of our semi-custom SoC products. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Interest Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net, and Income Taxes The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: 25 Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue of 32% in the first quarter of 2016 was flat compared to the first quarter of 2015 . The decrease in revenue was approximately proportionate to the decrease in cost of sales. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $242 million in the first quarter of 2016 was flat compared to $242 million in the first quarter of 2015 . Research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment increased by $22 million, partially offset by a $20 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment and a $2 million decrease attributable to the All Other category primarily due to decrease in stock-based compensation expenses. Research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment increased primarily due to a $20 million increase in product engineering and design costs. Research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment decreased primarily due to a $27 million decrease in product engineering and design costs, offset by a $6 million increase in other employee compensation and benefit expenses. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $105 million in the first quarter of 2016 decreased by $26 million , or 20% , compared to $131 million in the first quarter of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a $21 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment and a $5 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment. Marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment decreased primarily due to a $14 million decrease in sales and marketing activities and a $7 million decrease in other general and administrative expenses. Marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment decreased primarily due to a $3 million decrease in sales and marketing activities and a $2 million decrease in other general and administrative expenses. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, we implemented a restructuring plan focused on our ongoing efforts to simplify our business and better align resources around our priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and includes organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the third quarter 2016. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first quarter of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March26, 2016 : 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan (2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of our real estate footprint with our reduced headcount. In the first quarter of 2015, we recorded a $12 million restructuring charge, which consisted of $5 million for severance and benefit costs and $7 million for facilities related costs. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was largely completed by the end of the third quarter of 2015. 26 The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first quarter of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March26, 2016 : Dense Server Systems Business Exit As a part of our strategy to simplify and sharpen our investment focus, we exited the dense server systems business, formerly SeaMicro, in the first quarter of 2015. As a result, we recorded a charge of $75 million in Restructuring and other special charges, net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first quarter of 2015. This charge consisted of an impairment charge of $62 million related to the acquired intangible assets. We concluded that the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets associated with our dense server systems business was fully impaired as we did not have plans to utilize the related freedom fabric technology in any of our future products nor did we have any plans at that time to monetize the associated intellectual property. In addition, the exit charge consisted of a $6 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million of severance and related benefits and $3 million for contract or program termination costs. We have substantially completed this exit activity during the first quarter of 2016. Interest Expense Interest expense of $40 million in the first quarter of 2016 was flat compared to the first quarter of 2015 . Income Taxes In the first quarter of 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $1 million , consisting of $3 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations, partially offset by $2 million of tax benefits arising from other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In the first quarter of 2015 , we recorded an income tax provision of $3 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations. As of March26, 2016 , substantially all of our U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income, which at March26, 2016 , in our estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. Our gross unrecognized tax benefits as of March26, 2016 were $39 million . We do not believe it is reasonably possible that other unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of our tax audits are highly uncertain. Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which we allocated in the condensed consolidated statements of operations: 27 For all periods presented, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related financing cash flows. Stock-based compensation expense of $16 million in the first quarter of 2016 remained relatively flat compared to $17 million in the first quarter of 2015 . FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March26, 2016 , our cash and cash equivalents of $716 million were lower compared to $785 million as of December 26, 2015. The decrease was primarily due to lower sales and the timing of related collections and the debt interest payments of $69 million in the first quarter of 2016. During the first quarter of 2016, we used $26 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and received $52 million associated with the licensing agreement with the China JVs. The percentage of cash and cash equivalents held domestically increased from 88% as of December 26, 2015 to 92% as of March26, 2016 . Our debt obligations of $2.2 billion as of March26, 2016 were flat compared to December 26, 2015. We believe our cash and cash equivalents balance along with the savings from our Restructuring Plans and our Secured Revolving Line of Credit will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe that in the event we decide to obtain external funding, we may be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. Over the longer term, should additional funding be required, such as to meet payment obligations of our long-term debt when due, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. Uncertain global economic conditions have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our business. If market conditions deteriorate, we may be limited in our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $42 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to $172 million in the first quarter of 2015. The decrease in cash used in operating activities was primarily due to lower wafer purchases, lower other operating expenses including lower labor costs, as a result of restructuring actions and receipt of $52 million associated with the licensing agreement with the China JVs, partially offset by lower cash collections during the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $26 million in the first quarter of 2016, primarily for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities was $15 million in the first quarter of 2015, which consisted of a cash outflow of $22 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment, offset by a net cash inflow of $7 million from purchases, sales and maturity of available for sale securities. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1 million in the first quarter of 2016. Net cash provided by financing activities was $59 million in the first quarter of 2015, primarily due to $58 million net proceeds from our Secured Revolving Line of Credit borrowings. During the first quarters of 2016 and 2015, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation. Therefore, we did not record any effects relating to financing cash flows for these periods. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our consolidated principal contractual obligations, as of March26, 2016 , and is supplemented by the discussion following the table: 28 (1) Represents estimated aggregate interest obligations for our outstanding debt obligations that are payable in cash, excluding non-cash amortization of debt issuance costs. (2) We have purchase obligations for goods and services where payments are based, in part, on the volume or type of services we acquire. In those cases, we only included the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Purchase orders for goods and services that are cancelable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. In addition, we have included in the table above obligations for software technology and licenses and IP licenses where payments are fixed and non-cancelable. (3) Includes our currently known purchase obligations to GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities, which include certain wafer deliveries under the fifth amendment to the WSA that had been delayed to fiscal 2016. We cannot meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount because we are currently in the process of negotiating a sixth amendment to the WSA. We expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. (4) Total amount excludes contractual obligations already recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets except for debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. 29 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 On February 26, 2014, we issued $600 million of our 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 (6.75% Notes). Our 6.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March1, 2019. Our 6.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 6.75% Indenture) dated February 26, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before March 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of our 6.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 6.75% Indenture). As of March26, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes was $600 million. 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 On August4, 2010, we issued $500 million of our 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 (7.75% Notes). Our 7.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February1 and August1 of each year beginning February1, 2011 until the maturity date of August1, 2020. Our 7.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.75% Indenture) dated August4, 2010 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. From August1, 2015, we may redeem our 7.75% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: As of March26, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes was $450 million. 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 On August15, 2012, we issued $500 million of our 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 (7.50% Notes). Our 7.50% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February15 and August15 of each year beginning February15, 2013 until the maturity date of August15, 2022. Our 7.50% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.50% Indenture) dated August15, 2012 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Prior to August15, 2022, we may redeem some or all of our 7.50% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.50% Indenture). As of March26, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes was $475 million. 30 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 On June 16, 2014, we issued $500 million of our 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 (7.00% Notes). The 7.00% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2015 until the maturity date of July1, 2024. The 7.00% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.00% Indenture) dated June 16, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before July 1, 2017, we may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes within 90 days of the closing of an equity offering with the net proceeds thereof at a redemption price equal to 107.000% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of redemption. Prior to July 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of the 7.00% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.00% Indenture). Starting July 1, 2019, we may redeem our 7.00% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: As of March26, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes was $500 million. Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire 6.75% Notes, 7.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes and 7.00% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when we believe the market conditions are favorable to do so. Secured Revolving Line of Credit As of March26, 2016 and December26, 2015 , our Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $230 million , at an interest rate of 4.03% and 4.00% , respectively. At March26, 2016 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit also had $15 million related to outstanding Letters of Credit, and up to $79 million available for future borrowings. We report our intra-period changes in our revolving credit balance on a net basis in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as we intend the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days. As of March26, 2016 , we were in compliance with all required covenants stated in the Loan Agreement. The agreements governing our 6.75% Notes, 7.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes and our Secured Revolving Line of Credit contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement would likely result in cross defaults under agreements covering other borrowings. The occurrence of a default under any of these borrowing arrangements would permit the applicable note holders or the lenders under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit to declare all amounts outstanding under those borrowing arrangements to be immediately due and payable. Other Long-Term Liabilities Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above primarily consists of $118 million of payments due under certain software and technology licenses that will be paid through 2020. Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above exclude amounts recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet that do not require us to make cash payments, which, as of March26, 2016 , primarily consisted of $17 million of deferred gains resulting from certain real estate transactions that occurred in Sunnyvale, California in 1998, in Markham, Ontario, Canada in 2015 and 2008 and in Singapore in 2013 and $15 million interest accretion for future payments related to software and technology licenses. Accruals related to facility consolidation and site closure costs under our restructuring plans of $6 million and deferred rent related to our facilities in Sunnyvale, California of $6 million and operating lease accruals of $5 million are excluded from other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above as they are included in the operating leases obligations. Also excluded from other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above are $6 million deferred tax liabilities, $4 million non-current unrecognized tax benefits and $3 million of environmental reserves, which represent potential 31 cash payments that could be payable by us upon settlements with the related authorities. We have not included these amounts in the contractual obligations table above because we cannot make reasonably reliable estimates regarding the timing of the settlements with the related authorities, if any. Operating Leases We lease certain of our facilities and, in some jurisdictions, we lease the land on which our facilities are built under non-cancelable lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2028. We lease certain office equipment for terms ranging from one to five years. Total future non-cancelable lease obligations as of March26, 2016 were $299 million , including $248 million of future lease payments and estimated operating costs related to the real estate transactions that occurred in Austin, Texas, Sunnyvale, California, Markham, Canada, and Singapore. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations primarily include our obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties, excluding our wafer purchase commitments to GF under the WSA. As of March26, 2016 , total non-cancelable purchase obligations were $643 million . Obligations to GF Our currently known purchase obligations to GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $300 million which include certain wafer deliveries under the fifth amendment to the WSA that had been delayed to fiscal 2016. We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount because we are currently in the process of negotiating a sixth amendment to the WSA. We expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March26, 2016 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. 32ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (1) (2) (Unaudited) (1) Amounts reflected adoption of FASB ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes beginning in the first quarter of 2016. (2) Amounts reflected adoption of FASB ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs beginning in the first quarter of 2016. See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) NOTE 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company or AMD) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016 shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year ending December31, 2016 . In the opinion of the Company's management, the information contained herein reflects all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December26, 2015 . The Company uses a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters and six months ended June 25, 2016 and June27, 2015 each consisted of 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively. Principles of Consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the Company's accounts and those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Income Tax .In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (ASU 2015-17) , which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring that all deferred tax assets and liabilities to be classified as non-current on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company has adopted ASU 2015-17 prospectively in the first quarter of 2016. As a result, the Company netted $31 million of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, respectively, and reclassified $8 million current deferred tax assets and $6 million current deferred tax liabilities to non-current deferred tax assets and liabilities, respectively, on its condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 26, 2016. The prior period information was not retrospectively adjusted. Interest-Imputation of Interest. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs (ASU 2015-03) , which requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. ASU 2015-03 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015 and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The new guidance will be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015 -15 to amend ASU 2015-03 and address debt issuance costs related to line-of-credit arrangements. ASU 2015-15 allows an entity to present debt issuance costs related to a line-of-credit as an asset and subsequently amortize the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings on the arrangement. This accounting standard update did not impact the effective date of the previously issued guidance. The Company retrospectively adopted ASU 2015-03 and 2015-15 in the first quarter of 2016. As a result, the Company r eclassified the financing costs from long term assets to long term debt by $23 million and $25 million as of March 26, 2016 and December 26, 2015, respectively, on its consolidated balance sheets. Inventory. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU 2015-11), which simplifies the measurement of inventory by requiring certain inventory to be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2015-11 on its consolidated financial statements. Disclosure of Going Concern Uncertainties. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (ASU 2014-15) , which provides guidance on management's responsibility in evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about a company's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. ASU 2014-15 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2016 and for interim and annual periods therein with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2014-15 on its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09), which creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies in all industries. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that revenue should be recognized in a manner that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those 7 goods or services. ASU 2014-09 defines a five-step process in order to achieve this core principle, which may require the use of judgment and estimates. ASU 2014-09 also requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures relating to the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers, including significant judgments and estimates used. In July 2015, FASB announced a decision to defer the effective date for this ASU. ASU 2014-09 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2018 with early adoption permitted (for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016). The Company may adopt ASU 2014-09 either by using a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU2014-09 on its consolidated financial statements and has not yet determined which approach it will apply. Financial Instruments. In January 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU 2016-01), which provides guidance related to accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, FASB clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-01 on its consolidated financial statements. Leases. During February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases . (ASU 2016-02), which increases transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing all lease transactions (with terms in excess of 12 months) on the balance sheet as a lease liability and a right-of-use asset (as defined). ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early application permitted. Upon adoption, the lessee will apply the new standard retrospectively to all periods presented or retrospectively using a cumulative effect adjustment in the year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. Investments . In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07, Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting (ASU 2016-07), whichrequires the equity method investor to add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment qualifies for equity method accounting. ASU 2016-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years with early application permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-07 on its consolidated financial statements. Stock Compensation. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Stock Compensation (ASU 2016-09), which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-09 on its consolidated financial statements. Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB, which the Company has adopted or will adopt, as applicable, the Company does not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or operating results. NOTE 2. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which the Company purchases products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Fifth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On April16, 2015 , the Company entered into a fifth amendment to the WSA. The primary effect of the fifth amendment was to establish volume purchase commitments and fixed pricing for the 2015 calendar year as well as to modify certain other terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for some of the Company's microprocessor unit, graphics processor unit and semi-custom products to be delivered by GF to the Company during the 2015 calendar year. The Company's total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the quarters ended June25, 2016 and June27, 2015 were $85 million and $246 million , respectively. The Company's total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the six months ended June25, 2016 and June27, 2015 were $293 million and $416 million , respectively. The Company's currently known purchase obligations to GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $434 million for fiscal 2016 which include certain wafer deliveries under the fifth amendment to the WSA that 8 had been delayed to fiscal 2016. The Company is not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate its future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount because it is currently in the process of negotiating a sixth amendment to the WSA. The Company expects that its future purchases from GF will continue to be material. GF continues to be a related party of the Company because Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala) and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), the Company's largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. NOTE 3. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Inventories Other Current Assets Property, Plant and Equipment Other Assets 9 Accrued Liabilities Other Current Liabilities NOTE 4. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd., a wholly-foreign owned enterprise incorporated as a limited liability company, and Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., a Malaysian limited liability company, to affiliates of Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a Chinese joint stock company (NFME), to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV), pursuant to the terms of an Equity Interest Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2015 (the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement), between the Company and NFME. As a result of the sale, NFME's affiliates own 85% of the equity interests in each ATMP JV while certain of the Company's subsidiaries own the remaining 15% . The Company has no obligations to fund the ATMP JV. As the result of the transaction, the Company received approximately $351 million , including purchase price adjustments, in net cash proceeds in the second quarter of 2016 for selling 85% of the equity interest in each of AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd. and Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd. These proceeds, net of certain transaction costs, were included in investing activities on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended June 25, 2016. The Company estimates final net cash proceeds, excluding final purchase price adjustments which the Company expects will be settled in upcoming quarters, after payment of taxes and customary expenses in the current and future quarters, of approximately $320 million . In connection with the divestiture, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $150 million within Other income (expense), net on its condensed consolidated statements of operations during the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016. The pre-tax gain reflects the excess of the sum of net cash proceeds and fair value of the Company's retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV over the sum of the net book values of the Company's former subsidiaries and other closing costs directly attributed to the divestiture. The above gain includes $12 million of excess of fair value of the Company's retained interest over the corresponding net book values. In determining the fair value of the Company's retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV, the Company used quoted prices from comparable bids for this transaction. The Company also considered other factors including the control premium and the amount of consideration received for the portion sold. The Company accounts for its equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to its significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of June25, 2016 , the carrying value of the Company's investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $62 million . Opening balances of ATMP JV are currently undergoing a valuation analysis which may result in adjustment to the carrying value of the investment in ATMP JV, adjustment to the recognized gain on sale of the 85% equity interest or equity method income (loss) in ATMP JV. Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is a related party of the Company. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and pack (ATMP) services to the Company. The Company currently pays the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. The Company's total purchases from the ATMP JV in the second quarter of 2016 amounted to approximately $66 million . The Company's payable to the ATMP JV, as of June 25, 2016 was $150 million also included amounts payable to the former subsidiaries, 10 AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd. and Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., arising from the transactions prior to the sale. The Company recorded a loss of $3 million in Equity in income (loss) of ATMP JV on its condensed consolidated statements of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016, which includes certain expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the ATMP JV. NOTE 5. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, the Company and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner) formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the China JVs). The Company's equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by the Company's contribution of certain of its patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the China JVs' operations. The Company has no obligations to fund the China JVs. The China JVs' primary purpose is to support the Company's expansion into the server and workstation product market in China. The Company licensed certain of its intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the China JVs for a total of approximately $293 million in license fees payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. The Company also expects to receive a royalty based on the sales of the China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. The Company will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the China JVs in connection with the product development. The Company concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. The Company determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2 and will not consolidate either of these entities. The Company accounts for its investments in the China JVs under the equity method of accounting. Income related to the Licensed IP will be recognized over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires the Company's continuing involvement in the product development process, and thereafter, together with royalty payments, will be recognized in income once earned. The Company will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016 , the Company recognized $26 million and $33 million , respectively, of operating income related to the Licensed IP. The Company's total exposure to losses through its investment into the China JVs is limited to the Company's investments in the China JVs, which was zero as of June25, 2016 . The Company's share in the net losses of the China JVs for the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of operations since the Company is not obligated to fund the China JVs losses in excess of the Company's investment in the China JVs. As of June25, 2016 , the total assets and liabilities of the China JVs were not material. NOTE 6. Net Income (Loss) Per Share Basic net income (loss) per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive shares outstanding. Potentially dilutive shares include stock options and restricted stock units. The following table sets forth the components of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share: 11 Potential sharesfrom stock options and restricted stock units totaling 19 million and 51 million were not included in the net income (loss) per share calculations for the second quarters of 2016 and 2015 , respectively, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. Potential shares from employee stock options and restricted stock units totaling 41 million and 63 million were not included in the net loss per share calculation for the six months ended June 25, 2016 and June 27, 2015, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. NOTE 7.Financial Instruments Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and financial instruments measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis as of June25, 2016 and December26, 2015 are summarized below: (1) The Company did no t have any transfers between Level 1 and Level2 of the fair value hierarchy during the quarter and six months ended June25, 2016 or the year ended December26, 2015 . (2) The Company's Level 2 short-term investments are valued using broker reports that utilize quoted market prices for identical or comparable instruments. Brokers gather observable inputs for all of the Company's fixed income securities from a variety of industry data providers and other third-party sources. Available-for-sale securities held by the Company as of June25, 2016 and December26, 2015 consisted of commercial paper. The amortized cost of available-for-sale securities approximated the fair value for all periods presented. In addition to those amounts presented above, as of June25, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Company had approximately $3 million and $1 million , respectively, of available-for-sale investments in money market funds, used as collateral for letters of credit deposits, which were included in Other current assets and Other assets, respectively, on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These money market funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices 12 for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized costs are the same as the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these deposits. Also in addition to those amounts presented above, as of June25, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Company had approximately $14 million and $15 million , respectively, of available-for-sale investments in mutual funds held in a Rabbi trust established for the Company's deferred compensation plan, which were included in Other assets on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These mutual funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these investments. Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis. The Company carries its financial instruments at fair value with the exception of its debt. Financial instruments that are not recorded at fair value are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes. The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of financial instruments not recorded at fair value are as follows: (1) Carrying amounts of long-term debt are net of unamortized debt issuance costs of $23 million as of June25, 2016 and $25 million as of December26, 2015 , based on the adoption of ASU 2015-03. The Company's short-term and long-term debt are classified within Level 2. The fair value of the debt was estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The fair value of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable and other short-term obligations approximate their carrying value based on existing payment terms. Hedging Transactions and Derivative Financial Instruments Cash Flow Hedges The following table shows the amount of gain (loss) included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the amount of gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and included in earnings related to the foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges and the amount of gain (loss) included in other income (expense), net, related to contracts not designated as hedging instruments, which was allocated in the condensed consolidated statements of operations: The Company's foreign currency derivative contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets, such as currency spot and forward rates. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other current assets should the foreign currency forward contracts be in a gain position or included in Other current liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. These amounts were recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as follows: 13 For the foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portions of the hedging relationship and the amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were immaterial. As of June25, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the notional values of the Company's outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $265 million and $156 million , respectively. All the contracts mature within 12 months, and, upon maturity, the amounts recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are expected to be reclassified into earnings. The Company hedges its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions over a maximum of 12 months. Fair Value Hedges The Company's fair value hedge derivative contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other assets should the fair value hedge derivative contracts be in a gain position or included in Other long-term liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. These amounts were recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as follows: NOTE 8. Income Taxes In the second quarter of 2016 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $29 million . This included $2 million due primarily to foreign taxes in profitable locations and $2 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations partially offset by $2 million of tax benefits arising from other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In addition, the Company recorded the tax effect of completion of the sale of a majority equity interest in two subsidiaries comprising $21 million of income tax expense in China and $6 million of withholding tax expense associated with a future repatriation of the gain generated in China by the Chinese portion of that transaction (see Note 4. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture). In future periods, the Company will apply the equity method of accounting to its 15% investment in the two former subsidiaries. The Company's share of applicable tax expense will be netted with the equity share of future profits or losses. In 2015, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $2 million related to the activities of the two former subsidiaries. The Company has not recognized the tax benefit of future foreign tax credits associated with the withholding tax expense as the size and age profile of existing tax attributes does not allow it to satisfy the "more likely than not" criterion for the recognition of deferred tax assets. For the six months ended June 25, 2016 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $30 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations and items identified above. In the second quarter of 2015 and for the six months ended June 27, 2015 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $1 million and $4 million , respectively, due to foreign taxes in profitable locations. As of June25, 2016 , substantially all of the Company's U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income which, as of June25, 2016 , in management's estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. The Company's total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of June25, 2016 were $41 million . The Company currently does not expect to reduce its unrecognized tax benefits over the next 12 months. The Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that other unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of tax audits are highly uncertain. 14 NOTE 9. Segment Reporting Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the Company's Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. The Company has the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of its intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, the Company has an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Also included in this category are, employee stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and other special charges, net and amortization of acquired intangible assets. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: The following table provides major items included in All Other category: 15 NOTE 10. Stock-Based Incentive Compensation Plans The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which is allocated within the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: For all periods presented, the Company did no t realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related financing cash flows. Stock Options In the first six months of 2016 , the Company did no t grant any employee stock options to its employees. The weighted average assumptions applied in the lattice-binomial model that the Company uses to estimate the fair value of employee stock options are as follows: In the second quarter of 2015 , the Company granted 0.5 million shares of employee stock options, with weighted average grant date fair value per share of $1.06 . For the six months ended June 27, 2015 , the Company granted 0.7 million employee stock options with weighted average grant date fair values per share of $1.12 . Restricted Stock Units In the second quarters of 2016 and 2015, the Company granted 5.6 million and 4.1 million shares of restricted stock units, respectively, with weighted average grant date fair values per share of $2.97 and $2.46 , respectively. For the six months ended June 25, 2016 and June27, 2015 , the Company granted 6.4 million and 9.4 million shares of restricted stock units, respectively, with weighted average grant date fair values per share of $2.86 and $2.50 , respectively. NOTE 11. Commitments and Contingencies Warranties and Indemnities The Company generally warrants that its products sold to its customers will conform to the Company's approved specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service for one year. Subject to certain exceptions, the Company also offers a three-year limited warranty to end users for only those central processing unit (CPU) and AMD accelerated processing unit (APU) products that are commonly referred to as "processors in a box" and for certain server CPU products. The Company also offers extended limited warranties to certain customers of "tray" microprocessor products and/or professional graphics products who have written agreements with the Company and target their computer systems at the commercial and/or embedded markets. Changes in the Company's estimated liability for product warranty were as follows: 16 In addition to product warranties, the Company, from time to time in its normal course of business, indemnifies other parties, with whom it enters into contractual relationships, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. In these limited matters, the Company has agreed to hold certain third parties harmless against specific types of claims or losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, third-party claims that the Company's products when used for their intended purpose(s) and under specific conditions infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, or other specified claims made against the indemnified party. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under these indemnification obligations due to the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim and indemnification provision. Historically, payments made by the Company under these obligations have not been material. Contingencies Securities Class Action On January15, 2014, a class action lawsuit captioned Hatamian v. AMD, et al. , C.A. No.3:14-cv-00226 (the "Hatamian Lawsuit") was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual officers for alleged violations of Section10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.The plaintiffs seek to represent a proposed class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company's common stock during the period April4, 2011 through October18, 2012.The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual officers regarding the Company's 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period.The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On July 7, 2014, the Company filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs' claims. On March 31, 2015, the Court denied the motion to dismiss. On May 14, 2015, the Company filed its answer to plaintiffs' corrected amended complaint. On September 4, 2015, plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification, and on March 16, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs' motion. A court-ordered mediation held in January 2016 did not result in a settlement of the lawsuit. The discovery process is ongoing. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits On March 20, 2014, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Wessels v. Read, et al. , Case No. 1:14 cv-262486 ("Wessels") was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the Santa Clara County Superior Court of the State of California. The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual directors and officers regarding its 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period. On April 27, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Christopher Hamilton and David Hamilton v. Barnes, et al. , Case No. 5:15-cv-01890 ("Hamilton") was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-01890. On September 29, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Jake Ha v Caldwell, et al., Case No. 3:15-cv-04485 ("Ha") was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit also seeks a court order voiding the stockholder 17 vote on the Company's 2015 proxy. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-04485. The Wessels, Hamilton and Ha shareholder derivative lawsuits are currently stayed. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Other Legal Matters The Company is a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that arose in the normal course of business. With respect to these matters, based on the management's current knowledge, the Company believes that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss, if any, will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. NOTE 12. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on its ongoing efforts to simplify its business and better align resources around its priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan largely involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and includes organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the third quarter of 2016. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first six months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June25, 2016 : 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of its real estate footprint with its reduced headcount. In the first six months of 2015 , the Company recorded an $11 million restructuring charge, which consisted of $4 million for severance and benefit costs and $7 million for facilities related costs. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was largely completed by the end of the third quarter of 2015. During the first six months of 2016 , the Company recorded a restructuring charge reversal of $7 million , of which $5 million related to facilities costs associated with a lease amendment which reduced a lease liability previously accrued under this plan. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first six months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June25, 2016 : 18 Dense Server Systems Business Exit As a part of the Company's strategy to simplify and sharpen its investment focus, the Company exited the dense server systems business, formerly SeaMicro, in the first quarter of 2015. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $76 million in Restructuring and other special charges, net on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first six months of 2015 . This charge included an impairment charge of $62 million related to the acquired intangible assets. The Company concluded that the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets associated with its dense server systems business was fully impaired as the Company did not have plans to utilize the related freedom fabric technology in any of its future products nor did it have any plans at that time to monetize the associated intellectual property. In addition, the exit charge consisted of a $7 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million of severance and related benefits and $3 million for contract or program termination costs. The Company has substantially completed this exit activity during the first quarter of 2016. NOTE 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The tables below summarize the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component: 19 NOTE 14. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April14, 2015, AMD and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $75 million available for issuance of letters of credit, which remained unchanged from the loan and security agreement dated November 12, 2013, as amended on December 11, 2014. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable ( 90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million . The Secured Revolving Line of Credit matures on April14, 2020 and is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties' accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. At June25, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $226 million and $230 million , at an interest rate of 4.25% and 4.00% , respectively.At June25, 2016 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit also had $21 million related to outstanding letters of credit, and up to $163 million available for future borrowings. The Company reports its intra-period changes in its revolving credit balance on a net basis in its condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as the Company intends the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days . As of June25, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all required covenants stated in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 10, 2015, the Loan Parties entered into a first amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the "First Amendment") by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the First Amendment included the addition of exceptions to the liens and asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements, as well as the addition of certain definitions related thereto. Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April 29, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a second amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the "Second Amendment") by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The primary amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by 20 the Second Amendment related to the expansion of the definition of permitted asset dispositions to include the sale or transfer of inventory to the ATMP JV pursuant to the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement between AMD and NFME. Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 21, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a third amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the "Third Amendment") by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Third Amendment included the further expansion of the asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements. 21 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates," "anticipates," or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: demand for AMD's products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; future restructuring activities; the nature and extent of AMD's future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF) and the materiality of these payments; the materiality of AMD's future purchases from GF; the expected amount and timing of the final net cash proceeds from the joint venture transaction between AMD and Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co. Ltd.; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMD's expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; AMD may not realize the benefits anticipated from any acquisitions, divestitures and/or joint ventures; sales patterns of AMD's PC products and semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products for game consoles; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; AMD's expected completion of its restructuring plan announced in October 2015 (the 2015 Restructuring Plan); that other unrecognized tax benefits will not materially change in the next 12 months; that AMD's cash and cash equivalents balances and its secured revolving line of credit (Secured Revolving Line of Credit) will be sufficient to fund AMD's operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMD's ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD's expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the securities class action and the shareholder derivative suit will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; and AMD does not expect to pay dividends in the future. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: Intel Corporation's dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit AMD's ability to compete effectively; AMD relies on GF to manufacture all of its microprocessor and accelerated processing unit (APU) products and a certain portion of its discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) products, with limited exceptions. If GF is not able to satisfy AMD's manufacturing requirements, its business could be adversely impacted; AMD relies on third parties to manufacture its products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, AMD's business could be materially adversely affected; failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for AMD's products could negatively impact its financial results; the success of AMD's business is dependent upon its ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to its customers while supporting and coinciding with significant industry transitions; if AMD cannot generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow or obtain external financing, it may face a cash shortfall and be unable to make all of its planned investments in research and development or other strategic investments; the loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on AMD; AMD's receipt of revenue from its semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon its technology being designed into third-party products and the success of those products;global economic uncertainty may adversely impact AMD's business and operating results; AMD may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations or meet its working capital requirements; AMD has a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial position and prevent it from implementing its strategy or fulfilling its contractual obligations; the agreements governing AMD's notes and the Secured Revolving Line of Credit impose restrictions on AMD that may adversely affect its ability to operate its business; the markets in which AMD's products are sold are highly competitive; uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of AMD's products could materially adversely affect it; the demand for AMD's products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for AMD's products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations; the completion and impact of the 2015 Restructuring Plan, its transformation initiatives and any future restructuring actions could adversely affect it; AMD's ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property; AMD depends on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software and other computer platform components to support its business; if AMD loses Microsoft Corporation's support for its products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on AMD's products, its ability to sell its products could be materially adversely affected; AMD's reliance on third-party distributors and AIB partners subjects it to certain risks; AMD's inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel may hinder its product development programs; in the event of a change of control, AMD may not be able to repurchase its outstanding debt as required by the applicable indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit, which would result in a default under the indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit; the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect 22 its business in the future; acquisitions, divestitures and/or joint ventures could disrupt its business, harm its financial condition and operating results or dilute, or adversely affect the price of, its common stock; AMD's business is dependent upon the proper functioning of its internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt its business, processes and internal controls; data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise AMD's intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to its business and reputation; AMD's operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns; if essential equipment, materials or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture its products, AMD could be materially adversely affected; if AMD's products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, it could be materially adversely affected; costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on AMD; if AMD fails to maintain the efficiency of its supply chain as it responds to changes in customer demand for its products, its business could be materially adversely affected; AMD outsources to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of its product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services; AMD may incur future impairments of goodwill; AMD's worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on it; worldwide political conditions may adversely affect demand for AMD's products; unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect AMD; AMD's inability to effectively control the sales of its products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on it; if AMD cannot adequately protect its technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, it may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses; AMD is a party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause it to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit it from selling its products; AMD's business is subject to potential tax liabilities; and AMD is subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as a variety of other laws or regulations that could result in additional costs and liabilities. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see "PartII, Item1A-Risk Factors" beginning on page 39 and "Financial Condition" beginning on page33 and other risks and uncertainties set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 23 AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Sony is a trademark of Sony Corporation. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements andrelated notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014, and for each of the three years in the period ended December26, 2015 as filed in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December26, 2015. Overview We are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Within the global semiconductor industry, we offer primarily: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated as an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, "us," "our" or "AMD"), including a discussion of our results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016 compared to the quarter and six months ended June 27, 2015 , an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. Net revenue in the second quarter of 2016 was $1.027 billion, a 9% increase compared to the second quarter of 2015. The year over year increase was primarily due to a 15% increase in Computing and Graphics net revenue and a 5% increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The increase in Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to higher sales of our notebook microprocessors and GPU products. The increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment net revenue was primarily driven by higher sales of our semi-custom SoCs and an increase in our non-recurring engineering revenue (NRE). Gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, for the second quarter of 2016 was 31% compared to 25% in the second quarter of 2015 . Gross margin in the second quarter of 2015 was adversely impacted by a technology node transition charge of $33 million, which accounted for three gross margin percentage points. In addition, gross margin of our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment improved in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 due to lower cost of sales. During the second quarter of 2016, we continued to execute our product roadmap and delivered new products. In April 2016, we announced the AMD FirePro W9100 with 32GB of memory support designed for large asset workflows with creative applications. In May 2016, we announced the availability of our Polaris architecture-based Radeon RX Series graphic cards. These Polaris-based graphic cards are designed to deliver premium virtual reality capability and improved performance and efficiency. Also in May, we announced the AMD FirePro S7100X GPU for blade servers (a self-contained server) designed as a graphics virtualization solution to provide workstation-class experience for up to 16 users. Also in May 2016, we announced our 7th Generation AMD A-Series Processors for notebooks equipped with advanced video, graphics, performance and security features. Cash and cash equivalents as of June 25, 2016 were $957 million, an increase of $241 million compared to March 26, 2016, primarily driven by thenet cash proceeds received from the assembly, test, mark and pack (ATMP) joint venture transaction with Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd. that occurred in the second quarter of 2016. Our total debt level remained flat from the first quarter of 2016 at $2.24 billion. 24 GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which we purchase products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Fifth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On April 16, 2015, we entered into a fifth amendment to the WSA. The primary effect of the fifth amendment was to establish volume purchase commitments and fixed pricing for the 2015 calendar year as well as to modify certain other terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for some of our microprocessor unit, graphics processor unit and semi-custom products to be delivered by GF to us during the 2015 calendar year. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the quarters ended June25, 2016 and June27, 2015 were $85 million and $246 million , respectively. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the six months ended June25, 2016 and June27, 2015 were $293 million and $416 million , respectively. Our currently known purchase obligations to GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $434 million for fiscal 2016 which include certain wafer deliveries under the fifth amendment to the WSA that had been delayed to fiscal 2016. We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount because we are currently in the process of negotiating a sixth amendment to the WSA. We expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. GF continues to be a related party of AMD because Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala) and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), our largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, we and certain of our subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd., a wholly-foreign owned enterprise incorporated as a limited liability company, and Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., a Malaysian limited liability company, to affiliates of Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a Chinese joint stock company (NFME), to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV), pursuant to the terms of an Equity Interest Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2015 (the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement), between us and NFME. As a result of the sale, NFME's affiliates own 85% of the equity interests in each ATMP JV while certain of our subsidiaries own the remaining 15%. We have no obligations to fund the ATMP JV. As a result of the transaction, we received approximately $351 million , including purchase price adjustments, in net cash proceeds in the second quarter of 2016 for selling 85% of the equity interest in each of AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd. and Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd. These proceeds, net of certain transaction costs, were included in investing activities on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended June 25, 2016. We estimate final net cash proceeds, excluding final purchase price adjustments which we expect will be settled in upcoming quarters, after payment of taxes and customary expenses in the current and future quarters, of approximately $320 million . In connection with the divestiture, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $150 million within Other income (expense), net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations during the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016. The pre-tax gain reflects the excess of the sum of net cash proceeds and fair value of our retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV over the sum of the net book values of our former subsidiaries and other closing costs directly attributed to the divestiture. The above gain includes $12 million in excess of fair value of our retained interest over the corresponding net book values. In determining the fair value of our retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV, we used quoted prices from comparable bids for this transaction. We also considered other factors including the control premium and the amount of consideration received for the portion sold. We account for our equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to our significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of June25, 2016 , the carrying value of our investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $62 million . Opening balances of ATMP JV are currently undergoing a valuation analysis which may result in adjustment to the carrying value of the investment in ATMP JV, adjustment to the recognized gain on sale of the 85% equity interest or equity method income (loss) in ATMP JV. Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is our related party. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and pack (ATMP) services to us. We currently pay the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. Our total purchases from the ATMP JV in the second quarter of 2016 amounted to approximately $66 million . Our payable to the ATMP JV, as of June 25, 2016 was $150 million also included amounts payable to the former subsidiaries, AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd. and Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., arising from the transactions prior to the sale. We recorded a loss of $3 million in Equity in income (loss) of ATMP JV on our condensed consolidated statements of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016, which includes certain expenses incurred by us on behalf of the ATMP JV. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, we and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner) formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the China JVs). Our equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by our contribution of certain of our patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the China JVs' operations. We have no obligations to fund the China JVs. The China JVs' primary purpose is to support our expansion into the server and workstation product market in China. We licensed certain of our intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the China JVs for a total of approximately $293 million in license fees payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. We also expect to receive a royalty based on the sales of the China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. We will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the China JVs in connection with the product development. We concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. We determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2 and we will not consolidate either of these entities. We account for our investments in the China JVs under the equity method of accounting. Income related to the Licensed IP will be recognized over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires our continuing involvement in the product development process, and thereafter, together with royalty payments, will be recognized in income once earned. We will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016 , we recognized $26 million and $33 million , respectively, of operating income related to the Licensed IP. Our total exposure to losses through our investment into the China JVs is limited to our investments in the China JVs, which was zero as of June25, 2016 . Our share in the net losses of the China JVs for the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of operations since we are not obligated to fund the China JVs losses in excess of our investment in the China JVs. As of June25, 2016 , the total assets and liabilities of the China JVs were not material. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with management's expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes during the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December26, 2015 . We will perform an annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter of 2016 pursuant to our accounting policy. However, we will also test for goodwill impairment at any time during the year if there are indicators of impairment present. If there are declines in our market capitalization, business climate or operating results, we may incur impairment charges that could be material. 25 Results of Operations Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses our operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. We have the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete GPUs and professional graphics; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Also included in this category are employee stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and other special charges, net and amortization of acquired intangible assets. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended June25, 2016 and June27, 2015 each consisted of 13 weeks. The six months ended June25, 2016 and June27, 2015 each consisted of 26 weeks. Our operating results tend to vary seasonally with the markets in which our products are sold. For example, historically, first quarter PC product sales are generally lower than fourth quarter sales. In addition, with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles, we expect sales patterns to follow the seasonal trends of a consumer business with sales in the first half of the year being lower than sales in the second half of the year. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $435 million in the second quarter of 2016 increased by 15% , compared to net revenue of $379 million in the second quarter of 2015 , primarily as a result of an 18% increase in unit shipments. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to higher unit shipments of our notebook microprocessor products and GPU products due to higher demand. Computing and Graphics net revenue of $895 million in the first six months of 2016 decreased by 2% , compared to $911 million in the first six months of 2015 , as a result of a 4% decrease in average selling price, partially offset by a 1% increase in unit shipments. The decrease in average selling price was primarily attributable to a decrease in average selling price of our notebook microprocessor and chipset products, partially offset by an increase in average selling price of our GPU products. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to higher unit shipments of our GPU products, partially offset by lower unit shipment of our microprocessor products. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $81 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to an operating loss of $147 million in the second quarter of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above and a decrease in operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in cost of sales. Cost of sales increased primarily due to higher unit shipments in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015. Operating expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $151 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to operating loss of $222 million in the first six months of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to a decrease in operating expenses and a decrease in cost of sales, offset by the decrease in net revenue referenced above. Cost of sales decreased primarily due to lower unit shipments in the first six months of 2016, compared to the first six months of 2015. Operating expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $592 million in the second quarter of 2016 increased by 5% compared to net revenue of $563 million in the second quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to higher unit shipments of our semi-custom SoC products and an increase in our NRE revenue. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $964 million in the first six months of 2016 decreased by 9% compared to net revenue of $1,061 million in the first six months of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in unit shipments of our semi-custom SoC products, partially offset by an increase in our NRE revenue. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $84 million in the second quarter of 2016 compared to operating income of $27 million in the second quarter of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the absence of a technology node transition charge of $33 million recorded in the second quarter of 2015, the increase in net revenue referenced above and a $26 million IP licensing gain related to the Licensed IP to the China JVs, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $100 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to operating income of $72 million in the first six months of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to a decrease in cost of sales, in part due to the absence of a technology node transition charge of $33 million recorded in the first six months of 2015, and a $33 million IP licensing gain related to the Licensed IP to the China JVs, partially offset by the decrease in net revenue referenced above and an increase in operating expenses. Cost of sales decreased primarily due to lower unit shipments and lower manufacturing cost in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. All Other All Other operating loss of $11 million in the second quarter of 2016 included stock-based compensation expense of $18 million, offset by restructuring reversals of $7 million. All Other operating loss of $17 million in the second quarter of 2015 included stock-based compensation expense of $17 million. All Other operating loss of $25 million in the first six months of 2016 primarily included stock-based compensation expense of $34 million, partially offset by restructuring reversals of $10 million. All Other operating loss of $124 million in the first six months of 2015 included restructuring and other special charges, net of $87 million, stock-based compensation expense of $34 million and $3 million related to amortization of acquired intangible assets. Restructuring and other special charges, net of $87 million included $76 million related to our decision to exit from the dense server systems business and $11 million related to our restructuring plan that was implemented in the fourth quarter of 2014. International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 77% in the second quarter of 2016 and 75% in the second quarter of 2015 . The increase in international sales as a percentage of net revenue in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 was primarily driven by a higher proportion of revenue from international sales of our semi-custom SoC products. International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 80% in the first six months of 2016 and 75% in the first six months of 2015 . The increase in international sales as percentage of net revenue was primarily driven by higher proportion of revenue from international sales of our semi-custom SoC products. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. 26 Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Interest Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net, Income Taxes and Equity in Income (Loss) of ATMP JV The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 31% in the second quarter of 2016 compared to 25% in the second quarter of 2015 . Gross margin in the second quarter of 2015 was adversely impacted by a technology node transition charge of $33 million, which accounted for three gross margin percentage points. In addition, gross margin of our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment improved in the second quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2015 due to lower cost of sales. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 32% in the first six months of 2016 compared to 28% in the first six months of 2015 . Gross margin in the first six months of 2015 was adversely impacted by a technology node transition charge of $33 million, which accounted for two gross margin percentage points. In addition, gross margin of our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment improved in the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 due to lower cost of sales. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $243 million in the second quarter of 2016 increased by $8 million , or 3% , compared to $235 million in the second quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a $31 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, partially offset by a $23 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment. Research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment increased primarily due to a $27 million increase in product engineering and design costs. Research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment decreased primarily due to a $27 million decrease in product engineering and design costs. Research and development expenses of $485 million in the first six months of 2016 increased by $8 million , or 2% , compared to $477 million in the first six months of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a $53 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, partially offset by a $44 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment. Research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment increased primarily due to a $48 million increase in product engineering and design costs and a $5 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expenses. Research and development expenses 27 attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment decreased primarily due to a $53 million decrease in product engineering and design costs, partially offset by a $9 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expenses. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $117 million in the second quarter of 2016 decreased by $17 million , or 13% , compared to $134 million in the second quarter of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a $21 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment, primarily due to a $15 million decrease in sales and marketing activities and a $6 million decrease in other general and administrative expenses. Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $222 million in the first six months of 2016 decreased by $43 million , or 16% , compared to $265 million in the first six months of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a $42 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment, primarily due to a $29 million decrease in sales and marketing activities and a $13 million decrease in other general and administrative expenses. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, we implemented a restructuring plan focused on our ongoing efforts to simplify our business and better align resources around our priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and includes organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the third quarter 2016. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first six months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June25, 2016 : 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan (2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of our real estate footprint with our reduced headcount. In the first six months of 2015 , we recorded an $11 million restructuring charge, which consisted of $4 million for severance and benefit costs and $7 million for facilities related costs. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was largely completed by the end of the third quarter of 2015. During the first six months of 2016 , we recorded a restructuring charge reversal of $7 million, of which $5 million related to facilities costs associated with a lease amendment which reduced a lease liability previously accrued under this plan. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first six months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June25, 2016 : Dense Server Systems Business Exit As a part of our strategy to simplify and sharpen our investment focus, we exited the dense server systems business, formerly SeaMicro, in the first quarter of 2015. As a result, we recorded a charge of $76 million in Restructuring and other special charges, net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first six months of 2015 . This charge included an impairment charge of $62 million related to the acquired intangible assets. We concluded that the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets associated with our dense server systems business was fully impaired as we did not have plans to utilize the related freedom fabric technology in any of our future products nor did we have any plans at that time to monetize the associated intellectual property. In addition, the exit charge consisted of a $7 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million of severance and related benefits and $3 million for contract or program termination costs. We have substantially completed this exit activity during the first quarter of 2016. Interest Expense Interest expense of $41 million in the second quarter of 2016 was flat compared to the second quarter of 2015 . Interest expense of $81 million in the first six months of 2016 was flat compared to the first six months of 2015 . Other Income (Expense), Net Other income, net of $150 million in the second quarter of 2016 increased by $153 million compared to $3 million Other expense, net in the second quarter of 2015 primarily due to the gain on sale of equity interests in ATMP JV of $150 million in the second quarter of 2016. Other income, net of $150 million in the first six months of 2016 increased by $153 million compared to $3 million Other expense, net in the first six months of 2015 primarily due to the gain on sale of equity interests in ATMP JV of $150 million in the second quarter of 2016. Income Taxes In the second quarter of 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $29 million . This included $2 million due primarily to foreign taxes in profitable locations and $2 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations partially offset by $2 million of tax benefits arising from other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In addition, we recorded the tax effect of completion of the sale of a majority equity interest in two subsidiaries comprising $21 million of income tax expense in China and $6 million of withholding tax expense associated with a future repatriation of the gain generated in China by the Chinese portion of that transaction. In future periods, we will apply the equity method of accounting to our 15% investment in the two former subsidiaries. Our share of applicable tax expense will be netted with the equity share of future profits or losses. In 2015, we recorded an income tax provision of $2 million related to the activities of the two former subsidiaries. We have not recognized the tax benefit of future foreign tax credits associated with the withholding tax expense as the size and age profile of existing tax attributes does not allow us to satisfy the "more likely than not" criterion for the recognition of deferred tax assets. For the six months ended June 25, 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $30 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations and items identified above. In the second quarter of 2015 and six months ended June 27, 2015 , we recorded an income tax provision of $1 million and $4 million , respectively, due to foreign taxes in profitable locations. As of June25, 2016 , substantially all of our U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income, which as 28 of June25, 2016 , in our estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. Our gross unrecognized tax benefits as of June25, 2016 were $41 million . We currently do not expect to reduce our unrecognized tax benefits over the next 12 months. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that other unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of our tax audits are highly uncertain. Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which we allocated in our condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: For all periods presented, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related financing cash flows. Stock-based compensation expense of $18 million in the second quarter of 2016 slightly increased from $17 million in the second quarter of 2015 . Stock-based compensation expense of $34 million in the first six months of 2016 was flat compared to the first six months of 2015 . FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June25, 2016 , our cash and cash equivalents were $957 million compared to $785 million as of December 26, 2015. The increase during the first six months of 2016 was primarily due to the $351 million net proceeds from sale of equity interests in the ATMP JV, the $52 million associated with the licensing agreement with the China JVs and timing of accounts payable payments, partially offset by debt interest payments of $73 million and $47 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment in the first six months of 2016. The percentage of cash and cash equivalents held domestically was 88% as of June25, 2016 , flat compared to December 26, 2015. Our debt obligations of $2.2 billion net of unamortized debt issuance costs as of June25, 2016 were flat compared to December 26, 2015. We believe our cash and cash equivalents balance along with our Secured Revolving Line of Credit will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe that in the event we decide to obtain external funding, we may be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. Should we require additional funding, such as to meet payment obligations of our long-term debt when due, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. Uncertain global economic conditions have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our business. If market conditions deteriorate, we may be limited in our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $127 million in the first six months of 2016 compared to $229 million in the first six months of 2015 . The improvement in operating activities was primarily due to timing of accounts payable payments, lower wafer purchases, lower operating expenses including lower labor costs, as a result of restructuring actions and receipt of $52 29 million associated with the licensing agreement with the China JVs, partially offset by lower cash collections during the first six months of 2016 compared to the first six months of 2015 mainly due to timing. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $303 million in the first six months of 2016 , which consisted of net cash inflow of $351 million from sale of equity interests in the ATMP JV, partially offset by a cash outflow of $47 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities was $196 million in the first six months of 2015 , which consisted of net cash inflow of $235 million from purchases, sales and maturity of available for sale securities, partially offset by a cash outflow of $39 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $4 million in the first six months of 2016 primarily due to $4 million net repayments of Secured Revolving Line of Credit borrowings. Net cash provided by financing activities was $57 million in the first six months of 2015 , primarily due to $100 million net proceeds from our Secured Revolving Line of Credit borrowings, of which $42 million was used to repay the remaining aggregate principal amount of our 6.00% Notes during the second quarter of 2015 . During the first six months of 2016 and 2015, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation. Therefore, we did not record any effects relating to financing cash flows for these periods. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our consolidated principal contractual obligations, as of June25, 2016 , and is supplemented by the discussion following the table: (1) Represents estimated aggregate interest obligations for our outstanding debt obligations that are payable in cash, excluding non-cash amortization of debt issuance costs and the impacts of the interest rate swap agreements. (2) We have purchase obligations for goods and services where payments are based, in part, on the volume or type of services we acquire. In those cases, we only included the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Purchase orders for goods and services that are cancelable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. In addition, we have included in the table above obligations for software technology and licenses and IP licenses where payments are fixed and non-cancelable. (3) Includes our currently known purchase obligations to GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities, which include certain wafer deliveries under the fifth amendment to the WSA that had been delayed to fiscal 2016. We cannot meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount because we are currently in the process of negotiating a sixth amendment to the WSA. We expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. (4) Total amount excludes contractual obligations already recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets except for debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. 30 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 On February 26, 2014, we issued $600 million of our 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 (6.75% Notes). Our 6.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March1, 2019. Our 6.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 6.75% Indenture) dated February 26, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before March 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of our 6.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 6.75% Indenture). As of June25, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes was $600 million. 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 On August4, 2010, we issued $500 million of our 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 (7.75% Notes). Our 7.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February1 and August1 of each year beginning February1, 2011 until the maturity date of August1, 2020. Our 7.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.75% Indenture) dated August4, 2010 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. From August1, 2015, we may redeem our 7.75% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: As of June25, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes was $450 million. 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 On August15, 2012, we issued $500 million of our 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 (7.50% Notes). Our 7.50% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February15 and August15 of each year beginning February15, 2013 until the maturity date of August15, 2022. Our 7.50% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.50% Indenture) dated August15, 2012 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Prior to August15, 2022, we may redeem some or all of our 7.50% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.50% Indenture). As of June25, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes was $475 million. 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 On June 16, 2014, we issued $500 million of our 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 (7.00% Notes). The 7.00% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2015 until the maturity date of July1, 2024. The 7.00% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.00% Indenture) dated June 16, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before July 1, 2017, we may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes within 90 days of the closing of an equity offering with the net proceeds thereof at a redemption price equal to 107.000% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of redemption. Prior to July 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of the 7.00% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.00% Indenture). Starting July 1, 2019, we may redeem our 7.00% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: 31 As of June25, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes was $500 million. Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our 6.75% Notes, 7.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes and 7.00% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when we believe the market conditions are favorable to do so. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April14, 2015, AMD and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $75 million available for issuance of letters of credit, which remained unchanged from the loan and security agreement dated November 12, 2013, as amended on December 11, 2014. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable (90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million. The Secured Revolving Line of Credit matures on April14, 2020 and is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties' accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. As of June25, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $226 million and $230 million , at an interest rate of 4.25% and 4.00% , respectively. At June25, 2016 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit also had $21 million related to outstanding letters of credit, and up to $163 million available for future borrowings. We report our intra-period changes in our revolving credit balance on a net basis in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as we intend the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days. As of June25, 2016 , we were in compliance with all required covenants stated in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. The agreements governing our 6.75% Notes, 7.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes and our Secured Revolving Line of Credit contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement would likely result in cross defaults under agreements covering other borrowings. The occurrence of a default under any of these borrowing arrangements would permit the applicable note holders or the lenders under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit to declare all amounts outstanding under those borrowing arrangements to be immediately due and payable. First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 10, 2015, the Loan Parties entered into a first amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the "First Amendment") by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the First Amendment included the addition of exceptions to the liens and asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements, as well as the addition of certain definitions related thereto. Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement 32 On April 29, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a second amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the "Second Amendment") by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The primary amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Second Amendment related to the expansion of the definition of permitted asset dispositions to include the sale or transfer of inventory to the ATMP JV pursuant to the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement between AMD and NFME. Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 21, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a third amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the "Third Amendment") by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Third Amendment included the further expansion of the asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements. Other Long-Term Liabilities Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above primarily consists of $101 million of payments due under certain software and technology licenses that will be paid through 2020. Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above exclude amounts recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet that do not require us to make cash payments, which, as of June25, 2016 , primarily consisted of $16 million of deferred gains resulting from certain real estate transactions that occurred in Sunnyvale, California in 1998, in Markham, Ontario, Canada in 2015 and 2008 and in Singapore in 2013 and $13 million interest accretion for future payments related to software and technology licenses. Deferred rent related to our facilities in Sunnyvale, California of $5 million and operating lease accruals of $5 million are excluded from other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above as they are included in the operating leases obligations. Also excluded from other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above are $12 million deferred tax liabilities, $3 million non-current unrecognized tax benefits and $3 million of environmental reserves, which represent potential cash payments that could be payable by us upon settlements with the related authorities. We have not included these amounts in the contractual obligations table above because we cannot make reasonably reliable estimates regarding the timing of the settlements with the related authorities, if any. Operating Leases We lease certain of our facilities and, in some jurisdictions, we lease the land on which our facilities are built under non-cancelable lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2028. We lease certain office equipment for terms ranging from one to five years. Total future non-cancelable lease obligations as of June25, 2016 were $271 million, including $218 million of future lease payments and estimated operating costs related to the real estate transactions that occurred in Austin, Texas, Sunnyvale, California, Markham, Canada, and Singapore. During the second quarter of 2016, we signed an amendment to the lease agreement associated with our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California so that the lease expires in December 2017. In connection with the amendment, the lease payments were reduced for 2017. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations primarily include our obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties, excluding our wafer purchase commitments to GF under the WSA. As of June25, 2016 , total non-cancelable purchase obligations were $667 million . Obligations to GF Our currently known purchase obligations to GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $434 million in fiscal 2016 which include certain wafer deliveries under the fifth amendment to the WSA that had been delayed to fiscal 2016. We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount because we are currently in the process of negotiating a sixth amendment to the WSA. We expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June25, 2016 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. 33ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (1) (2) (Unaudited) (1) Amounts reflected adoption of FASB ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes beginning in the first quarter of 2016. (2) Amounts reflected adoption of FASB ASU 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs beginning in the first quarter of 2016. See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) NOTE 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company or AMD) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year ending December31, 2016 . In the opinion of the Company's management, the information contained herein reflects all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December26, 2015 . The Company uses a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters and nine months ended September 24, 2016 and September26, 2015 each consisted of 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively. Principles of Consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the Company's accounts and those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant inter-company accounts and transactions are eliminated. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Income Tax .In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (ASU 2015-17) , which simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring that all deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company adopted ASU 2015-17 prospectively in the first quarter of 2016. As a result, the Company netted $31 million of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, respectively, and reclassified $8 million current deferred tax assets and $6 million current deferred tax liabilities to non-current deferred tax assets and liabilities, respectively, on its condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 26, 2016. The prior period information was not retrospectively adjusted. Interest-Imputation of Interest. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs (ASU 2015-03) , which requires an entity to present such costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of the costs will continue to be reported as interest expense. ASU 2015-03 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015 and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The new guidance will be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015 -15 to amend ASU 2015-03 and address debt issuance costs related to line-of-credit arrangements. ASU 2015-15 allows an entity to present debt issuance costs related to a line-of-credit as an asset and subsequently amortize the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings on the arrangement. This accounting standard update did not impact the effective date of the previously issued guidance. The Company retrospectively adopted ASU 2015-03 and 2015-15 in the first quarter of 2016. As a result, the Company r eclassified the debt issuance costs from long-term assets to long-term debt by $23 million and $25 million as of March 26, 2016 and December 26, 2015, respectively, on its consolidated balance sheets. Inventory. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU 2015-11), which simplifies the measurement of inventory by requiring certain inventory to be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact from its adoption of ASU 2015-11 on its consolidated financial statements. Disclosure of Going Concern Uncertainties. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern (ASU 2014-15), which provides guidance on management's responsibility in evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about a company's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. ASU 2014-15 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2016 and for interim and annual periods therein with early adoption permitted. The Company is not expecting any material impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2014-15 on its consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09), which creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies in all industries. The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that revenue should be recognized in a manner that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those 7 goods or services. ASU 2014-09 defines a five-step process in order to achieve this core principle, which may require the use of judgment and estimates. ASU 2014-09 also requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures relating to the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers, including significant judgments and estimates used. In July 2015, FASB announced a decision to defer the effective date for this ASU. ASU 2014-09 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2018 with early adoption permitted (for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016). The Company may adopt ASU 2014-09 either by using a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU2014-09 on its consolidated financial statements and has not yet determined which approach it will apply. Financial Instruments. In January 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU 2016-01), which provides guidance related to accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, FASB clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-01 on its consolidated financial statements. Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (ASU 2016-02), which increases transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing all lease transactions (with terms in excess of 12 months) on the balance sheet as a lease liability and a right-of-use asset (as defined). ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early application permitted. Upon adoption, the lessee will apply the new standard retrospectively to all periods presented or retrospectively using a cumulative effect adjustment in the year of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. Investments . In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07, Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting (ASU 2016-07), whichrequires the equity method investor to add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment qualifies for equity method accounting. ASU 2016-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years with early application permitted. The Company is not expecting any material impact from its adoption of ASU 2016-07 on its consolidated financial statements. Stock Compensation. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Stock Compensation (ASU 2016-09), which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods. The Company is not expecting any material impact from its adoption of ASU 2016-09 on its consolidated financial statements. Statement of Cash Flows . In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (ASU 2016-15), whichaddresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years with early adoption permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-15 on its consolidated financial statements. Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB, which the Company has adopted or will adopt, as applicable, the Company does not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or operating results. NOTE 2. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which the Company purchases products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Fifth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On April16, 2015 , the Company entered into a fifth amendment to the WSA (the Fifth Amendment). The primary effect of the fifth amendment was to establish volume purchase commitments and fixed pricing for the 2015 calendar year as well as to modify certain other terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for some of the Company's microprocessor unit, graphics processor unit and semi-custom products to be delivered by GF to the Company during the 2015 calendar year. 8 Sixth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On August 30, 2016, the Company entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the WSA. The Sixth Amendment modifies certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for the Company's microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five -year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. The Company and GF agreed to establish a comprehensive framework for technology collaboration for the 7nm technology node. The Sixth Amendment also provides the Company a limited waiver with rights to contract with another wafer foundry with respect to certain products in the 14nm and 7nm technology nodes and gives the Company greater flexibility in sourcing foundry services across its product portfolio. In consideration for these rights, the Company will pay GF $100 million , which will be paid in installments starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016 through the third fiscal quarter of 2017. Starting in 2017 and continuing through 2020, the Company also agreed to make quarterly payments to GF based on the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry. Further, for each calendar year during the term of the Sixth Amendment, the Company and GF agreed to annual wafer purchase targets that increase from 2016 through 2020. If the Company does not meet the annual wafer purchase target for any calendar year, the Company will be required to pay to GF a portion of the difference between the Company's actual wafer purchases and the wafer purchase target for that year. The annual targets were established based on the Company's current business and market expectations and take into account the limited waiver it has received for certain products. The Company and GF also agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased during 2016 and established a framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2017 to 2020. The Company's total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the quarters ended September24, 2016 and September26, 2015 were $186 million and $288 million , respectively. The Company's total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the nine months ended September24, 2016 and September26, 2015 were $479 million and $704 million , respectively. The Company's currently expected purchases from GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $257 million for the remainder of fiscal 2016. The Company expects that its future purchases from GF under the WSA, which is in place until 2024, will continue to be material. Warrant Agreement . Also on August 30, 2016, in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, the Company entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala). Under the Warrant Agreement, WCH and its permitted assigns are entitled to purchase 75 million shares of the Company's common stock (the Warrant Shares) at a purchase price of $5.98 per share. The warrant under the Warrant Agreement is exercisable in whole or in part until February 29, 2020, provided that the maximum number of Warrant Shares that may be exercised under the one-year anniversary of the Warrant Agreement shall not exceed 50 million . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Warrant Agreement will only be exercisable to the extent that Mubadala does not beneficially own, either directly through any other entities directly and indirectly owned by Mubadala or its subsidiaries, an aggregate of more than 19.99% of the Company's outstanding capital stock after any such exercise. During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , the Company recorded a charge of $340 million , consisting of the $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the $240 million value of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement issued in consideration of the Sixth Amendment. The warrant, which was recorded as additional paid-in capital, was valued using the Black-Scholes Model, which considers the assumptions of 47.1% implied volatility and 0.99% risk-free rate based on the 3.5 -year warrant term, the Company's stock price of $7.49 per share on August 30, 2016 and the $5.98 strike price. GF continues to be a related party of the Company because Mubadala and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with WCH, the Company's largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. NOTE 3. Debt 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 On September 14, 2016, the Company issued $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (2.125% Notes). The 2.125% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company and will mature on September 1, 2026, unless earlier repurchased or converted. Interest is payable in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning on March 1, 2017. The 2.125% Notes are governed by the terms of a base indenture and a supplemental indenture (together the 2.125% Indentures) dated September 14, 2016 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2026 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2016 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after June 1, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the Company will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock, at the Company's election. The Company may not redeem the notes prior to the maturity date, and no sinking fund is provided for the notes. The conversion rate will initially be 125.0031 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $8.00 per share of common stock). The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest.In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date, the Company will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such a corporate event in certain circumstances. If the Company undergoes a fundamental change prior to the maturity date of the notes, holders may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased,plusaccrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accounting for the issuance of the 2.125% Notes, the Company separated the 2.125% Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amounts of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have associated convertible features. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the par value of the 2.125% Notes as a whole. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its book value (debt discount) is accreted to interest expense over the term of the 2.125% Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification. In accounting for the issuance costs related to the 2.125% Notes, the Company allocated the total amount of issuance costs incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative fair values. Issuance costs attributable to the liability component are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2.125% Notes, and the issuance costs attributable to the equity component are netted against the equity component in additional paid-in capital. The Company recorded liability issuance costs of $12 million and equity issuance costs of $8 million . The 2.125% Notes consisted of the following: (1) Included in the consolidated balance sheets within Long-term debt, net and amortized over the remaining life of the notes on the straight-line basis as it approximates the effective interest rate method. (2) Included in the consolidated balance sheets within additional paid-in capital, net of $8 million in equity issuance costs. As of September 24, 2016, the remaining life of the 2.125% Notes is approximately 120 months . Based on the closing price of the Company's common stock of $6.55 on September 23, 2016, the last business day of the third fiscal quarter, the if-converted value of the 2.125% Notes was less than the principal amount thereof. 9 The effective interest rate of the liability component of the 2.125% Notes is 8% . This interest rate was based on the interest rates of similar liabilities at the time of issuance that did not have associated convertible features. The following table sets forth total interest expense recognized related to the 2.125% Notes for the three months ended September 24, 2016: The Company also granted an option to the underwriters to purchase an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes. On September 28, 2016, this option was exercised in full and the Company issued an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes. 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 During the third quarter of 2016, the Company repurchased $404 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 (6.75% Notes) pursuant to a partial tender offer for $442 million , which included payment of accrued and unpaid interest of $2 million . The Company incurred a total loss of $41 million in connection with the foregoing repurchase of the 6.75% Notes. As of September24, 2016, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 6.75% Notes was $196 million . 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 During the third quarter of 2016, the Company repurchased $242 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 (7.75% Notes) pursuant to a partial tender offer for $251 million , which included payment of accrued and unpaid interest of $3 million . The Company incurred a total loss of $9 million in connection with the foregoing repurchase of the 7.75% Notes. As of September24, 2016, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.75% Notes was $208 million . On September 28, 2016, the Company redeemed the remaining $208 million in aggregate principal amount of the 7.75% Notes. 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 During the third quarter of 2016, the Company repurchased $125 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 (7.50% Notes) pursuant to a partial tender offer for $135 million , which included payment of accrued and unpaid interest of $1 million . The Company incurred a total loss of $10 million in connection with the foregoing repurchase of the 7.50% Notes. As of September24, 2016, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.50% Notes was $350 million . 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 During the third quarter of 2016, the Company repurchased $25 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 (7.00% Notes) pursuant to a partial tender offer for $26 million , which included payment of accrued and unpaid interest that was less than $1 million . The Company incurred a total loss of $1 million in connection with the foregoing repurchase of the 7.00% Notes. As of September24, 2016, the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes was $475 million . NOTE 4. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Inventories 10 Other Current Assets Property, Plant and Equipment Other Assets Accrued Liabilities Other Current Liabilities 11 NOTE 5. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd., formerly AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd., and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd., formerly Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., to affiliates of Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a Chinese joint stock company (NFME), to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV). As a result of the sale, NFME's affiliates own 85% of the equity interests in each ATMP JV while certain of the Company's subsidiaries own the remaining 15% . The Company has no obligations to fund the ATMP JV. As the result of the transaction, the Company received approximately $346 million , including purchase price adjustments, in net cash proceeds for selling 85% of the equity interest in each of Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd. and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd. These proceeds, net of certain transaction costs, were included in investing activities on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended September 24, 2016. As a result of certain purchase price adjustments, the Company recognized a charge of $4 million in the third quarter of 2016, which resulted in a cumulative pre-tax gain on the sale of its 85% equity interest in ATMP JV of $146 million for the nine months ended September 24, 2016, which was recognized within Other income (expense), net on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations. The net pre-tax gain reflects the excess of the sum of net cash proceeds and fair value of the Company's retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV over the sum of the net book values of the Company's former subsidiaries and other closing costs directly attributed to the divestiture. The above gain includes $11 million of excess of fair value of the Company's retained interest over the corresponding net book values. In determining the fair value of the Company's retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV, the Company used quoted prices from comparable bids for this transaction. The Company also considered other factors including the control premium and the amount of consideration received for the portion sold. The Company accounts for its equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to its significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of September24, 2016 , the carrying value of the Company's investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $60 million . Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is a related party of the Company. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and pack (ATMP) services to the Company. The Company currently pays the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. The Company's total purchases from the ATMP JV during the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 amounted to approximately $107 million and $173 million , respectively. The Company's payable to the ATMP JV, as of September 24, 2016 was $144 million . During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , the Company recorded $5 million and $8 million , respectively, of loss in Equity in income (loss) of ATMP JV on its condensed consolidated statements of operations, which includes certain expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the ATMP JV. NOTE 6. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, the Company and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner) formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the China JVs). The Company's equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by the Company's contribution of certain of its patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the China JVs' operations. The Company has no obligations to fund the China JVs. The China JVs' primary purpose is to support the Company's expansion into the server and workstation product market in China. The Company licensed certain of its intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the China JVs for a total of approximately $293 million in license fees payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. The Company also expects to receive a royalty based on the sales of the China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. The Company will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the China JVs in connection with the product development. 12 The Company concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. The Company determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2 and will not consolidate either of these entities. The Company accounts for its investments in the China JVs under the equity method of accounting. Income related to the Licensed IP will be recognized over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires the Company's continuing involvement in the product development process, and thereafter, together with royalty payments, will be recognized in income once earned. The Company will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , the Company recognized $24 million and $57 million , respectively, of operating income related to the Licensed IP. The Company's total exposure to losses through its investment into the China JVs is limited to the Company's investments in the China JVs, which was zero as of September24, 2016 . The Company's share in the net losses of the China JVs for the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of operations since the Company is not obligated to fund the China JVs losses in excess of the Company's investment in the China JVs. As of September24, 2016 , the total assets and liabilities of the China JVs were not material. NOTE 7. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Diluted net loss per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive shares outstanding. Potentially dilutive shares include stock options and restricted stock units and potentially dilutive shares issuable upon conversion of the 2.125% Notes and the exercise of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement. The following table sets forth the components of basic and diluted net loss per share: Potential sharesfrom stock options, restricted stock units and the 2.125% Notes totaling 144 million for the third quarter of 2016 and potential sharesfrom stock options and restricted stock units totaling 64 million for the third quarter of 2015 were not included in the net loss per share calculations, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. Potential shares from employee stock options, restricted stock units, the 2.125% Notes and the warrant under the Warrant Agreement totaling 217 million for the nine months ended September 24, 2016 and potential sharesfrom stock options and restricted stock units totaling 61 million for the nine months ended September 26, 2015 were not included in the net loss per share calculation, because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. NOTE 8.Financial Instruments Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and financial instruments measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis as of September24, 2016 and December26, 2015 are summarized below: 13 (1) The Company did no t have any transfers between Level 1 and Level2 of the fair value hierarchy during the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 or the year ended December26, 2015 . (2) The Company's Level 2 short-term investments are valued using broker reports that utilize quoted market prices for identical or comparable instruments. Brokers gather observable inputs for all of the Company's fixed income securities from a variety of industry data providers and other third-party sources. Available-for-sale securities held by the Company as of September24, 2016 and December26, 2015 consisted of commercial paper. The amortized cost of available-for-sale securities approximated the fair value for all periods presented. In addition to those amounts presented above, as of September24, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Company had approximately $3 million and $1 million , respectively, of available-for-sale investments in money market funds, used as collateral for letters of credit deposits, which were included in Other current assets and Other assets, respectively, on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These money market funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized costs are the same as the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these deposits. Also in addition to those amounts presented above, as of September24, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the Company had approximately $14 million and $15 million , respectively, of available-for-sale investments in mutual funds held in a Rabbi trust established for the Company's deferred compensation plan, which were included in Other assets on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These mutual funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these investments. Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis. The Company carries its financial instruments at fair value with the exception of its debt. Financial instruments that are not recorded at fair value are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes. The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of financial instruments not recorded at fair value are as follows: (1) Carrying amounts of long-term debt are net of unamortized debt issuance costs of $26 million as of September24, 2016 and $25 million as of December26, 2015 , based on the adoption of ASU 2015-03 and net of $273 million unamortized debt discount associated with the 2.125% Notes as of September24, 2016 . The Company's short-term and long-term debt are classified within Level 2. The fair value of the debt was estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The fair value of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable and other short-term obligations approximate their carrying value based on existing payment terms. Hedging Transactions and Derivative Financial Instruments Cash Flow Hedges The following table shows the amount of gain (loss) included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), the amount of gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and included in earnings related to the foreign 14 currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges and the amount of gain (loss) included in other income (expense), net, related to contracts not designated as hedging instruments, which was allocated in the condensed consolidated statements of operations: The Company's foreign currency derivative contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets, such as currency spot and forward rates. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other current assets should the foreign currency forward contracts be in a gain position or included in Other current liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. These amounts were recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as follows: For the foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portions of the hedging relationship and the amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were immaterial. As of September24, 2016 and December26, 2015 , the notional values of the Company's outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $152 million and $156 million , respectively. All the contracts mature within 12 months, and, upon maturity, the amounts recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are expected to be reclassified into earnings. The Company hedges its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions over a maximum of 12 months. Fair Value Hedges The Company's fair value hedge derivative contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other assets should the fair value hedge derivative contracts be in a gain position or included in Other long-term liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. These amounts were recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as follows: NOTE 9. Income Taxes In the third quarter of 2016 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $4 million , consisting of $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $3 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations. For the nine months ended September 24, 2016 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $34 million , including 15 $6 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations, $5 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations and $4 million of tax benefits arising from other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In addition, the Company recorded the tax effect of completion of the sale of a majority equity interest in two subsidiaries comprising $21 million of income tax expense in China and $6 million of withholding tax expense associated with a future repatriation of the gain generated in China by the Chinese portion of that transaction (see Note 5. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture). The Company now applies the equity method of accounting to its 15% investment in the two former subsidiaries. The Company's share of applicable tax expense will be netted with the equity share of future profits or losses. In 2015, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $2 million related to the activities of the two former subsidiaries. The Company has not recognized the tax benefit of future foreign tax credits associated with the withholding tax expense as the size and age profile of existing tax attributes does not allow it to satisfy the "more likely than not" criterion for the recognition of deferred tax assets. In the third quarter of 2015 the Company did not record any income tax provision. For the nine months ended September 26, 2015 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $4 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations. As of September24, 2016 , substantially all of the Company's U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income which, as of September24, 2016 , in management's estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. The Company's total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of September24, 2016 were $41 million . The Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of tax audits are highly uncertain. NOTE 10. Segment Reporting Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the Company's Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. The Company has the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of its intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, the Company has an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Also included in this category are, employee stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and other special charges, net, charge related to the Sixth Amendment to the WSA with GF and amortization of acquired intangible assets. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: The following table provides major items included in All Other category: 16 17 NOTE 11. Public Offering of Common Stock On September 14, 2016, the Company completed its registered underwritten public offering of 100 million shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at a public offering price of $6.00 per share, pursuant to an underwriting agreement with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein. The Company also granted to the underwriters a 30 -day option to purchase up to 15 million additional shares of common stock. As of September24, 2016, the resulting aggregate net proceeds to the Company from the common stock offering including the sale of the additional shares to the underwriters pursuant to the option described above, were approximately $668 million , after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses totaling approximately $22 million . NOTE 12. Stock-Based Incentive Compensation Plans The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which is allocated within the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: For all periods presented, the Company did no t realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related financing cash flows. Stock Options The weighted average assumptions applied in the lattice-binomial model that the Company uses to estimate the fair value of employee stock options are as follows: In the third quarter of 2016 and 2015 , the Company granted 2.2 million and 5.2 million shares of employee stock options, respectively, with weighted average grant date fair value per share of $3.10 and $0.94 , respectively. For the nine months ended September 24, 2016 and September26, 2015 , the Company granted 2.2 million and 5.9 million employee stock options, respectively, with weighted average grant date fair value per share of $3.10 and $0.96 , respectively. Restricted Stock Units In the third quarter of 2016 , the Company granted 19.5 million shares of restricted stock units including 2.0 million performance-based restricted stock units (PRSUs) with market conditions referenced below, and in the third quarter of 2015 , the Company granted 25.0 million shares of restricted stock units including 3.3 million PRSUs with market conditions referenced below with a weighted average grant date fair value per share of $5.10 and $1.79 , respectively. For the nine months ended September 24, 2016 , the Company granted 26.0 million shares of restricted stock units including 2.0 million PRSUs with market conditions referenced below, with weighted average grant date fair values per share of $4.55 . For 18 the nine months ended September 26, 2015 , the Company granted 33.9 million shares of restricted stock units including 3.3 million PRSUs with market conditions referenced below and 0.8 million PRSUs, with a weighted average grant date fair value per share of $1.96 . Performance-based Restricted Stock Units with Market Conditions During the third quarter of 2016, the Company granted restricted stock units with both a market condition and a service condition (market-based restricted stock units) to the Company's senior executives. The number of shares that may be earned is based on three -year compounded annual growth rate milestones related to the Company's closing stock price that may be attained within the three -year performance period, with the potential payout levels of shares at 50% , 100% , 150% , 200% and 250% of the target number of shares granted. Any shares earned pursuant to the attainment of a performance level shall vest 50% upon the compensation committee's certification of the attainment of the performance level (provided, however, that no shares may be earned or vest prior to the first anniversary of the grant date) and the remaining 50% shall vest at the end of the performance period, subject to the recipient's continuous employment or service through each such vesting date. The Company estimated the fair value of the market-based restricted stock units using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of grant. As of September24, 2016 , there were 2.0 million market-based restricted stock units with the potential payout level at 100% with a grant date fair value per share of $4.50 . During the third quarter of 2015, the Company granted restricted stock units with both a market condition and a service condition (market-based restricted stock units) to the Company's senior executives. The number of shares that may be earned is based on three -year compounded annual growth rate milestones related to the Company's closing stock price that may be attained within the three -year performance period, with the potential payout levels of shares at 50% , 100% , 200% and 250% of the target number of shares granted. Any shares earned pursuant to the attainment of a performance level shall vest 50% upon the compensation committee's certification of the attainment of the performance level (provided, however, that no shares may be earned or vest prior to the first anniversary of the grant date) and the remaining 50% shall vest at the end of the Performance Period, subject to the recipient's continuous employment or service through each such vesting date. The Company estimated the fair value of the market-based restricted stock units using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of grant. As of September 26, 2015, there were 3.3 million market-based restricted stock units with the potential payout level at 100% with a grant date fair value per share of $1.44 . As of September 24, 2016, all the 2015 market-based restricted stock units achieved the 250% payout level. NOTE 13. Commitments and Contingencies Warranties and Indemnities The Company generally warrants that its products sold to its customers will conform to the Company's approved specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service for one year. Subject to certain exceptions, the Company also offers a three-year limited warranty to end users for only those central processing unit (CPU) and AMD accelerated processing unit (APU) products that are commonly referred to as "processors in a box" and for certain server CPU products. The Company also offers extended limited warranties to certain customers of "tray" microprocessor products and/or professional graphics products who have written agreements with the Company and target their computer systems at the commercial and/or embedded markets. Changes in the Company's estimated liability for product warranty were as follows: In addition to product warranties, the Company, from time to time in its normal course of business, indemnifies other parties, with whom it enters into contractual relationships, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. In these limited matters, the Company has agreed to hold certain third parties harmless against 19 specific types of claims or losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, third-party claims that the Company's products when used for their intended purpose(s) and under specific conditions infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, or other specified claims made against the indemnified party. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under these indemnification obligations due to the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim and indemnification provision. Historically, payments made by the Company under these obligations have not been material. Contingencies Securities Class Action On January15, 2014, a class action lawsuit captioned Hatamian v. AMD, et al. , C.A. No.3:14-cv-00226 (the Hatamian Lawsuit) was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual officers for alleged violations of Section10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.The plaintiffs seek to represent a proposed class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company's common stock during the period April4, 2011 through October18, 2012.The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual officers regarding the Company's 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period.The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On July 7, 2014, the Company filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs' claims. On March 31, 2015, the Court denied the motion to dismiss. On May 14, 2015, the Company filed its answer to plaintiffs' corrected amended complaint. On September 4, 2015, plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification, and on March 16, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs' motion. A court-ordered mediation held in January 2016 did not result in a settlement of the lawsuit. The discovery process is ongoing. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits On March 20, 2014, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Wessels v. Read, et al. , Case No. 1:14 cv-262486 (Wessels) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the Santa Clara County Superior Court of the State of California. The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual directors and officers regarding its 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period. On April 27, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Christopher Hamilton and David Hamilton v. Barnes, et al. , Case No. 5:15-cv-01890 (Hamilton) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-01890. On September 29, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Jake Ha v Caldwell, et al., Case No. 3:15-cv-04485 (Ha) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit also seeks a court order voiding the stockholder vote on the Company's 2015 proxy. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-04485. The Wessels, Hamilton and Ha shareholder derivative lawsuits are currently stayed. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Other Legal Matters The Company is a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that arose in the normal course of business. With respect to these matters, based on the management's current knowledge, the Company believes that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss, if any, will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. NOTE 14. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 20 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (the 2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on its ongoing efforts to simplify its business and better align resources around its priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan largely involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and includes organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. In the first nine months of 2015 , the Company recorded a $41 million restructuring charge, which consisted of $31 million for severance and benefit costs, $1 million for facilities-related costs and $9 million ofintangible-asset-related charges.The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the fourth quarter of 2016. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first nine months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September24, 2016 : 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (the 2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of its real estate footprint with its reduced headcount. In the first nine months of 2015 , the Company recorded an $18 million restructuring charge, which consisted of a $5 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million for severance and benefit costs and $9 million for facilities related costs. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was largely completed by the end of the third quarter of 2015. During the first nine months of 2016 , the Company recorded a restructuring charge reversal of $7 million , of which $5 million related to facilities costs associated with a lease amendment which reduced a lease liability previously accrued under this plan. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first nine months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September24, 2016 : Dense Server Systems Business Exit As a part of the Company's strategy to simplify and sharpen its investment focus, the Company exited the dense server systems business, formerly SeaMicro, in the first quarter of 2015. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $76 million in Restructuring and other special charges, net on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first nine months of 2015 . This charge included an impairment charge of $62 million related to the acquired intangible assets. The Company concluded that the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets associated with its dense server systems business was fully impaired as the Company did not have plans to utilize the related freedom fabric technology in any of its future products nor did it have any plans at that time to monetize the associated intellectual property. In addition, the exit charge consisted of a $7 million 21 non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million of severance and related benefits and $3 million for contract or program termination costs. The Company substantially completed this exit activity during the second quarter of 2016. NOTE 15. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The tables below summarize the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component: NOTE 16. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April14, 2015, AMD and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $75 million available for issuance of letters of credit, which remained unchanged from the loan and security agreement dated November 12, 2013, as amended on December 11, 2014. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable ( 90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million . 22 The Secured Revolving Line of Credit matures on April14, 2020 and is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties' accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. During the third quarter of 2016, the Company repaid the $226 million outstanding balance. As of September24, 2016, the Company did no t have any borrowings outstanding under the Secured Revolving line of Credit. At December26, 2015 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $230 million , at an interest rate of 4.00% .At September24, 2016 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had $21 million related to outstanding letters of credit and up to $395 million available for future borrowings. The Company reports its intra-period changes in its revolving credit balance on a net basis in its condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as the Company intends the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days . As of September24, 2016 , the Company was in compliance with all required covenants stated in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 10, 2015, the Loan Parties entered into a first amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the First Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the First Amendment included the addition of exceptions to the liens and asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements, as well as the addition of certain definitions related thereto. Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April 29, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a second amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Second Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The primary amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Second Amendment related to the expansion of the definition of permitted asset dispositions to include the sale or transfer of inventory to the ATMP JV pursuant to the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement between AMD and NFME. Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 21, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a third amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Third Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Third Amendment included the further expansion of the asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements. Fourth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On September 7, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a fourth amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Fourth Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The primary amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan agreement effected by the Fourth Amendment was to increase the dollar limit as set forth in the definition related to certain supply chain finance arrangements. 23 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates," "anticipates," or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: demand for AMD's products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; future restructuring activities; the nature and extent of AMD's future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF) and the materiality of these payments; the materiality of AMD's future purchases from GF; AMD's expected $100 millionpayment toGF and the expected timing of such payment; AMD's quarterly payments to GF beginning in 2017 based on volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry; final net cash proceeds from the joint venture transaction between AMD and Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMD's expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; sales patterns of AMD's PC products and semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products for game consoles; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; AMD's expected completion of its restructuring plan announced in October 2015 (the 2015 Restructuring Plan); that other unrecognized tax benefits will not materially change in the next 12 months; that AMD's cash and cash equivalents balances together with the availability under that certain secured revolving line of credit (Secured Revolving Line of Credit) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, will be sufficient to fund AMD's operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMD's ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD's expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the securities class action and the shareholder derivative suit will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; and AMD does not expect to pay dividends in the future. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: Intel Corporation's dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit AMD's ability to compete effectively; We are party to a wafer supply agreement with GF with obligations to manufacture products at GF with certain exceptions. If GF is not able to satisfy AMD's manufacturing requirements, its business could be adversely impacted; AMD relies on third parties to manufacture its products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, AMD's business could be materially adversely affected; failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for AMD's products could negatively impact its financial results; the success of AMD's business is dependent upon its ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to its customers while supporting and coinciding with significant industry transitions; if AMD cannot generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow or obtain external financing, it may face a cash shortfall and be unable to make all of its planned investments in research and development or other strategic investments; the loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on AMD; AMD's receipt of revenue from its semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon its technology being designed into third-party products and the success of those products; global economic uncertainty may adversely impact AMD's business and operating results; the markets in which AMD's products are sold are highly competitive; AMD may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations or meet its working capital requirements; AMD has a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial position and prevent it from implementing its strategy or fulfilling its contractual obligations; the agreements governing AMD's notes and the Secured Revolving Line of Credit impose restrictions on AMD that may adversely affect its ability to operate its business; uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of AMD's products could materially adversely affect it; the demand for AMD's products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for AMD's products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations; AMD's ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property; AMD depends on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software and other computer platform components to support its business; if AMD loses Microsoft Corporation's support for its products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on AMD's products, its ability to sell its products could be materially adversely affected; AMD's reliance on third-party distributors and AIB partners subjects it to certain risks; AMD's inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel may hinder its product development programs; our issuance to West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH) of warrants to purchase 75 million shares of our common stock, if and when exercised, will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders, and the conversion of the 2.125% Notes may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock; in the event of a change of control, AMD may not be able to repurchase its outstanding debt as required by the applicable indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit, which would result in a default under the indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit; the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that 24 have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect its business in the future; acquisitions, divestitures and/or joint ventures could disrupt its business, harm its financial condition and operating results or dilute, or adversely affect the price of, its common stock; AMD's business is dependent upon the proper functioning of its internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt its business, processes and internal controls; data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise AMD's intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to its business and reputation; AMD's operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns; if essential equipment, materials or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture its products, AMD could be materially adversely affected; if AMD's products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, it could be materially adversely affected; costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on AMD; if AMD fails to maintain the efficiency of its supply chain as it responds to changes in customer demand for its products, its business could be materially adversely affected; AMD outsources to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of its product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services; the completion and impact of the 2015 Restructuring Plan, its transformation initiatives and any future restructuring actions could adversely affect it; AMD may incur future impairments of goodwill; AMD's worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on it; worldwide political conditions may adversely affect demand for AMD's products; unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect AMD; AMD's inability to effectively control the sales of its products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on it; if AMD cannot adequately protect its technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, it may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses; AMD is a party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause it to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit it from selling its products; AMD's business is subject to potential tax liabilities; and AMD is subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as a variety of other laws or regulations that could result in additional costs and liabilities. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see "PartII, Item1A-Risk Factors" beginning on page 43 and "Financial Condition" beginning on page35 and other risks and uncertainties set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 25 AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Sony is a trademark of Sony Corporation. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements andrelated notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014, and for each of the three years in the period ended December26, 2015 as filed in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December26, 2015. Overview We are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Within the global semiconductor industry, we offer primarily: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated as an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, "us," "our" or "AMD"), including a discussion of our results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 compared to the quarter and nine months ended September 26, 2015 , an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. Net revenue in the third quarter of 2016 was $1.3 billion, a 23% increase compared to the third quarter of 2015. The year over year increase was primarily due to a 11% increase in Computing and Graphics net revenue and a 31% increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The increase in Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to higher sales of our notebook microprocessors and GPU products, partially offset by lower sales of our desktop microprocessors and chipset products. The increase in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment net revenue was primarily driven by higher sales of our semi-custom SoCs. During the third quarter, we also continued to focus on achieving our product milestones. In August 2016, we expanded our family of Polaris GPUs with the launch of two new Radeon RX graphics cards. The Radeon RX 460 includes a number of new features to mainstream GPUs and has been designed for full HD eSports gaming, while the Radeon RX 470 brings leadership gaming performance and premium VR experiences to mainstream price points. Cash and cash equivalents as of September 24, 2016 were $1.3 billion, compared to $957 million as of June 25, 2016. Total debt as of the end of the third quarter of 2016 was $1.6billion, a decrease from $2.2 billion as of the end of the second quarter of 2016.During the third quarter of 2016, we issued $690 million of common stock and $700 million aggregate principal amount of 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (2.125% Notes). The $690 million of common stock included $90 million from the exercise of an underwriters' option to purchase 15 million additional shares of common stock. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of our common stock and the 2.125% Notes to pay $226 million of our secured revolving line of credit and repurchase an aggregate principal amount of $796 million of our outstanding 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019 (6.75% Notes), 7.75% Senior Notes due 2020 (7.75% Notes), 7.50% Senior Notes due 2022 (7.75% Notes) and 7.00% Senior Notes due 2024 (7.00% Notes). Early in the fourth quarter of 2016, we redeemed the remaining $208 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes and as a result, we no longer have any 7.75% Notes outstanding. Also early in the fourth quarter of 2016, the underwriters exercised an option to purchase $105 million principal amount of 2.125% Notes. During the third quarter of 2016, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the Wafer Supply Agreement (the WSA) with GlobalFoundries Inc. (GF). The Sixth Amendment modifies certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for our microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five-year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. Also, in connection with and in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, we entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala) pursuant to which WCH received the right to purchase up to 75 million shares of our common stock. GLOBALFOUNDRIES 26 Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which we purchase products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Fifth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On April 16, 2015, we entered into a fifth amendment to the WSA (the Fifth Amendment). The primary effect of the Fifth Amendment was to establish volume purchase commitments and fixed pricing for the 2015 calendar year as well as to modify certain other terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for some of our microprocessor unit, graphics processor unit and semi-custom products to be delivered by GF to us during the 2015 calendar year. Sixth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On August 30, 2016, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the WSA. The Sixth Amendment modifies certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for our microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five-year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. AMD and GF agreed to establish a comprehensive framework for technology collaboration for the 7nm technology node. The Sixth Amendment also provides us a limited waiver with rights to contract with another wafer foundry with respect to certain products in the 14nm and 7nm technology nodes and gives us greater flexibility in sourcing foundry services across our product portfolio. In consideration for these rights, we will pay GF $100 million, which will be paid in installments starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016 through the third fiscal quarter of 2017. Starting in 2017 and continuing through 2020, we also agreed to make quarterly payments to GF based on the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry. Further, for each calendar year during the term of the Sixth Amendment, AMD and GF agreed to annual wafer purchase targets that increase from 2016 through 2020. If we do not meet the annual wafer purchase target for any calendar year, we will be required to pay to GF a portion of the difference between the our actual wafer purchases and the wafer purchase target for that year. The annual targets were established based on our current business and market expectations and take into account the limited waiver we have received for certain products. AMD and GF also agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased during 2016 and established a framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2017 to 2020. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the quarters ended September24, 2016 and September26, 2015 were $186 million and $288 million , respectively. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing and research and development activities for the nine months ended September24, 2016 and September26, 2015 were $479 million and $704 million , respectively. Our currently expected purchases from GF for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities are approximately $257 million for the remainder of fiscal 2016. We expect that our future purchases from GF under the WSA, which is in place until 2024, will continue to be material. Warrant Agreement . Also on August 30, 2016, in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, we entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala). Under the Warrant Agreement, WCH and its permitted assigns are entitled to purchase 75 million shares of our common stock (the Warrant Shares) at a purchase price of $5.98 per share. The warrant under the Warrant Agreement is exercisable in whole or in part until February 29, 2020, provided that the maximum number of Warrant Shares that may be exercised under the one-year anniversary of the Warrant Agreement shall not exceed 50 million. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Warrant Agreement will only be exercisable to the extent that Mubadala does not beneficially own, either directly through any other entities directly and indirectly owned by Mubadala or its subsidiaries, an aggregate of more than 19.99% of our outstanding capital stock after any such exercise. During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , we recorded a charge of $340 million , consisting of the $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the $240 million value of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement issued in consideration of the Sixth Amendment. GF continues to be a related party of AMD because Mubadala and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with WCH, our largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, we and certain of our subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd., formerly AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd., and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd., formerly Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd., to affiliates of Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a Chinese joint stock company (NFME), to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV). As a result of the sale, NFME's affiliates 27 own 85% of the equity interests in each ATMP JV while certain of our subsidiaries own the remaining 15%. We have no obligations to fund the ATMP JV. As a result of the transaction, we received approximately $346 million , including purchase price adjustments, in net cash proceeds for selling 85% of the equity interest in each of Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd. and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd. These proceeds, net of certain transaction costs, were included in investing activities on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended September 24, 2016. As a result of certain purchase price adjustments, we recognized a charge of $4 million in the third quarter of 2016, which resulted in our cumulative pre-tax gain on sale of the 85% equity interest in ATMP JV of $146 million for the nine months ended September 24, 2016, which was recognized within Other income (expense), net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations. The net pre-tax gain reflects the excess of the sum of net cash proceeds and fair value of our retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV over the sum of the net book values of our former subsidiaries and other closing costs directly attributed to the divestiture. The above gain includes $11 million in excess of fair value of our retained interest over the corresponding net book values. In determining the fair value of our retained 15% equity interests in the ATMP JV, we used quoted prices from comparable bids for this transaction. We also considered other factors including the control premium and the amount of consideration received for the portion sold. We account for our equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to our significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of September24, 2016 , the carrying value of our investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $60 million . Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is our related party. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and pack (ATMP) services to us. We currently pay the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. Our total purchases from the ATMP JV during the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 amounted to approximately $107 million and $173 million , respectively. Our payable to the ATMP JV, as of September 24, 2016, was $144 million . During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , we recorded $5 million and $8 million , respectively, of loss in Equity in income (loss) of ATMP JV on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, which includes certain expenses incurred by us on behalf of the ATMP JV. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, we and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner) formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the China JVs). Our equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by our contribution of certain of our patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the China JVs' operations. We have no obligations to fund the China JVs. The China JVs' primary purpose is to support our expansion into the server and workstation product market in China. We licensed certain of our intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the China JVs for a total of approximately $293 million in license fees payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. We also expect to receive a royalty based on the sales of the China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. We will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the China JVs in connection with the product development. We concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. We determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2 and we will not consolidate either of these entities. We account for our investments in the China JVs under the equity method of accounting. Income related to the Licensed IP will be recognized over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires our continuing involvement in the product development process, and thereafter, together with royalty payments, will recognize income once earned. We will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 , we recognized $24 million and $57 million , respectively, of operating income related to the Licensed IP. Our total exposure to losses through our investment into the China JVs is limited to our investments in the China JVs, which was zero as of September24, 2016 . Our share in the net losses of the China JVs for the quarter and nine months ended September 28 24, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of operations since we are not obligated to fund the China JVs losses in excess of our investment in the China JVs. As of September24, 2016 , the total assets and liabilities of the China JVs were not material. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with management's expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes during the quarter and nine months ended September 24, 2016 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December26, 2015 . We will perform an annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter of 2016 pursuant to our accounting policy. However, we will also test for goodwill impairment at any time during the year if there are indicators of impairment present. If there are declines in our market capitalization, business climate or operating results, we may incur impairment charges that could be material. 29 Results of Operations Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses our operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. We have the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete GPUs and professional graphics; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom SoC products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Also included in this category are, employee stock-based compensation expense, restructuring and other special charges, net, charge related to the Sixth Amendment to the WSA with GF and amortization of acquired intangible assets. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended September24, 2016 and September26, 2015 each consisted of 13 weeks. The nine months ended September24, 2016 and September26, 2015 each consisted of 39 weeks. Our operating results tend to vary seasonally with the markets in which our products are sold. For example, historically, first quarter PC product sales are generally lower than fourth quarter sales. In addition, with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles, we expect sales patterns to follow the seasonal trends of a consumer business with sales in the first half of the year being lower than sales in the second half of the year. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $472 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by 11% , compared to net revenue of $424 million in the third quarter of 2015 , primarily as a result of an 8% increase in unit shipments and a 2% increase in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to higher unit shipments of our notebook microprocessor products and GPU products, partially offset by lower unit shipments of our desktop microprocessor products and chipset products. Unit shipments of our notebook microprocessor products increased primarily due to higher demand for our 6th Generation and 7th Generation A-Series notebook processors. The increase of unit shipments of our GPU products was primarily driven by demand for our Polaris architecture-based GPU products. The increase in average selling price was primarily attributable to an increase in average selling price of our notebook microprocessor products and GPU products, partially offset by a decrease in average selling price of our desktop microprocessor products and our chipset products due to a shift in our product mix. Average selling price of our notebook products increased due to a higher mix of sales of our 7th Generation A-Series notebook processors. Average selling price of our GPU products primarily increased due a higher mix of sales of our higher priced Polaris architecture-based GPU products. 30 Computing and Graphics net revenue of $1,367 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by 2% , compared to $1,335 million in the first nine months of 2015 , as a result of a 3% increase in unit shipments, partially offset by a 2% decrease in average selling price. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to higher unit shipments of our GPU products and notebook microprocessor products, partially offset by lower unit shipment of our desktop microprocessor and chipset products. The increase of unit shipments of our GPU products was primarily driven by demand for our Polaris architecture-based GPU products. Unit shipments of our notebook microprocessor products increased primarily due to higher demand for our 7th Generation A-Series notebook processors. The decrease in average selling price was primarily attributable to a decrease in average selling price of our chipset products due to an unfavorable shift in our product mix, partially offset by an increase in average selling price of our AIB products primarily due to strong demand for our Polaris architecture-based GPU products. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $66 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to an operating loss of $181 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above and a decrease in cost of sales and operating expenses. Cost of sales decreased primarily due to lower manufacturing cost in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 and an inventory write-down of $52 million as a result of lower than anticipated demand for primarily older-generation APU products in the third quarter of 2015. Operating expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $217 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to operating loss of $403 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above and a decrease in operating expenses and in cost of sales. Cost of sales decreased primarily due to lower manufacturing cost in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 and an inventory write-down of $52 million as a result of lower than anticipated demand for primarily older-generation APU products in the first nine months of 2015. Operating expenses decreased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $835 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by 31% compared to net revenue of $637 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The increase in net revenue was primarily due to higher unit shipments of our semi-custom SoC products. The increase in unit shipments was primarily driven by our customers' new product introductions. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $1,799 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by 6% compared to net revenue of $1,698 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The increase in net revenue was primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of our semi-custom SoC products and an increase in our NRE revenue. The increase in unit shipments was primarily driven by our customers' new product introductions. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $136 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to operating income of $84 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above and a $24 million IP licensing gain related to the Licensed IP to the China JVs, partially offset by an increase in cost of sales and operating expenses. Cost of sales increased primarily due to higher unit shipments in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015, partially offset by an inventory write-down of $13 million in the third quarter of 2015. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $236 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to operating income of $156 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue referenced above, a $57 million IP licensing gain recorded in the first nine months of 2016 related to the Licensed IP to the China JVs, and a decrease in cost of sales, in part due to the absence of a technology node transition charge of $33 million recorded in the first nine months of 2015, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. All Other All Other operating loss of $363 million in the third quarter of 2016 included a charge of $340 million consisting of the $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the $240 million value of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement and stock-based compensation expense of $23 million. All Other operating loss of $61 million in the third quarter of 2015 included restructuring and other special charges, net of $48 million and stock-based compensation expense of $13 million. All Other operating loss of $388 million in the first nine months of 2016 primarily included a charge of $340 million comprised of the $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the $240 million value of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement and stock-based compensation expense of $57 million, partially offset by restructuring reversals of $10 million. All Other operating loss of $185 million in the first nine months of 2015 included restructuring and other special charges, net of $135 31 million, stock-based compensation expense of $47 million and $3 million related to amortization of acquired intangible assets. Restructuring and other special charges, net of $135 million included $76 million related to our decision to exit from the dense server systems business, $41 million related to our 2015 Restructuring Plan and $18 million related to our 2014 Restructuring Plan. International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 73% in the third quarter of 2016 and 75% in the third quarter of 2015 . The decrease in international sales as a percentage of net revenue in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015 was primarily driven by a higher proportion of revenue from domestic sales of our semi-custom SoC products. International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 78% in the first nine months of 2016 and 75% in the first nine months of 2015 . The increase in international sales as percentage of net revenue was primarily driven by higher proportion of revenue from international sales of our semi-custom SoC products. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Interest Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net, Income Taxes and Equity in Income (Loss) of ATMP JV The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 5% in the third quarter of 2016 compared to 23% in the third quarter of 2015 . Gross margin in the third quarter of 2016 was adversely impacted by a charge of $340 million consisting of a $100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the value of the warrant of $240 million under the Warrant Agreement. The impact of the charge accounted for 26 gross margin percentage points. Gross margin in the third quarter of 2015 was adversely impacted by an inventory write-down of $65 million, which was primarily the result of lower anticipated demand for older-generation APUs. The impact of the write-down accounted for six gross margin percentage points. In the absence of these charges in 2016 and 2015, gross margin would have increased by two percentage points, primarily driven by improved average selling price of our notebook microprocessor products. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 20% in the first nine months of 2016 compared to 26% in the first nine months of 2015 . Gross margin in the first nine months of 2016 was adversely impacted by a charge of $340 million comprised of a 100 million payment under the Sixth Amendment and the value of the warrant of $240 million under the Warrant Agreement. The impact of the charge accounted for 11 gross margin percentage points. Gross margin in the first nine months of 2015 was adversely impacted by an inventory write-down of $65 million, which was primarily the result of lower anticipated demand for older-generation APUs and a technology node transition charge of $33 million. The impact of the write-down accounted for two gross margin percentage points and the technology node transition charge accounted for one gross margin percentage point. In 32 the absence of these charges, the gross margin would have increased by two percentage points, primarily driven by improved mix of semi-custom SoC products. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $259 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by $18 million , or 7% , compared to $241 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a $40 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment and an $8 million increase attributable to our All Other category, partially offset by a $30 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment. Research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment increased primarily due to a $38 million increase in product engineering and design costs. Research and development expenses attributable to our All Other category increased primarily due to an $8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment decreased primarily due to a $29 million decrease in product engineering and design costs. Research and development expenses of $744 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by $26 million , or 4% , compared to $718 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a $93 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment and a $7 million increase attributable to our All Other category, partially offset by a $74 million decrease in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment. Research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment increased primarily due to an $85 million increase in product engineering and design costs and an $8 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expenses. Research and development expenses attributable to our All Other category increased primarily due to a $7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment decreased primarily due to an $82 million decrease in product engineering and design costs, partially offset by an $8 million increase in employee compensation and benefit expenses. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $117 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by $9 million , or 8% , compared to $108 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a $6 million increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment and a $2 million increase attributable to our All Other category. Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment primarily due to a $3 million increase in sales and marketing activities and a $3 million increase in other general and administrative expenses. Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased attributable to our All Other category primarily due to a $2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $339 million in the first nine months of 2016 decreased by $34 million , or 9% , compared to $373 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a $41 million decrease in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment primarily due to a $23 million decrease in sales and marketing activities and a $17 million decrease in other general and administrative expenses, partially offset by a $6 million increase attributable to our All Other category primarily due to a $4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on our ongoing efforts to simplify our business and better align resources around our priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and includes organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. In the first nine months of 2015 , we recorded a$41 millionrestructuring charge, which consisted of $31 millionfor severance and benefit costs, $1 millionfor facilities-related costs and $9 millionintangible-asset related-charges.The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of the fourth quarter 2016. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first nine months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September24, 2016 : 33 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of our real estate footprint with our reduced headcount. In the first nine months of 2015 , we recorded an $18 million restructuring charge, which consisted of $5 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million for severance and benefit costs and $9 million for facilities related costs. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was largely completed by the end of the third quarter of 2015. During the first nine months of 2016 , we recorded a restructuring charge reversal of $7 million , of which $5 million related to facilities costs associated with a lease amendment which reduced a lease liability previously accrued under this plan. The following table provides a summary of the restructuring activities in the first nine months of 2016 and the related liabilities recorded in Other current liabilities and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September24, 2016 : Dense Server Systems Business Exit As a part of our strategy to simplify and sharpen our investment focus, we exited the dense server systems business, formerly SeaMicro, in the first quarter of 2015. As a result, we recorded a charge of $76 million in Restructuring and other special charges, net on our condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first nine months of 2015 . This charge included an impairment charge of $62 million related to the acquired intangible assets. We concluded that the carrying value of the acquired intangible assets associated with our dense server systems business was fully impaired as we did not have plans to utilize the related freedom fabric technology in any of our future products nor did we have any plans at that time to monetize the associated intellectual property. In addition, the exit charge consisted of a $7 million non-cash charge related to asset impairments, $4 million of severance and related benefits and $3 million for contract or program termination costs. We substantially completed this exit activity during the first quarter of 2016. Interest Expense Interest expense of $41 million in the third quarter of 2016 was flat compared to the third quarter of 2015 . Interest expense of $122 million in the first nine months of 2016 was flat compared to the first nine months of 2015 . Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net of $63 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by $63 million compared to $0 in the third quarter of 2015 primarily due to the $61 million total loss on debt repurchases and the $4 million adjustment to the gain on sale of equity interests in ATMP JV. Other income, net of $87 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by $90 million compared to $3 million Other expense, net in the first nine months of 2015 primarily due to the net gain on sale of equity interests in ATMP JV of $146 million, partially offset by the $61 million total loss on debt repurchases. 34 Income Taxes In the third quarter of 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $4 million , consisting of $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $3 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations. For the nine months ended September 24, 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $34 million , including $6 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations, $5 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations and $4 million of tax benefits arising from other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In addition, we recorded the tax effect of completion of the sale of a majority equity interest in two subsidiaries comprising $21 million of income tax expense in China and $6 million of withholding tax expense associated with a future repatriation of the gain generated in China by the Chinese portion of that transaction (see Note 5. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture). We now apply the equity method of accounting to our 15% investment in the two former subsidiaries. Our share of applicable tax expense will be netted with the equity share of future profits or losses. In 2015, we recorded an income tax provision of $2 million related to the activities of the two former subsidiaries. We have not recognized the tax benefit of future foreign tax credits associated with the withholding tax expense as the size and age profile of existing tax attributes does not allow us to satisfy the "more likely than not" criterion for the recognition of deferred tax assets. In the third quarter of 2015 , we did not record any income tax provision. For the nine months ended September 26, 2015 , we recorded an income tax provision of $4 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations. As of September24, 2016 , substantially all of our U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income, which as of September24, 2016 , in our estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. Our gross unrecognized tax benefits as of September24, 2016 were $41 million . We do not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of our tax audits are highly uncertain. Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which we allocated in our condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: For all periods presented, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related financing cash flows. Stock-based compensation expense of $23 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased by $10 million compared to $13 million in the third quarter of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a higher weighted average grant date fair value in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2015. Stock-based compensation expense of $57 million in the first nine months of 2016 increased by $10 million compared to $47 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The increase was primarily due to a higher weighted average grant date fair value in the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September24, 2016 , our cash and cash equivalents were $1.3 billion compared to $785 million as of December 26, 2015. The increase during the first nine months of 2016 was primarily due to the $681 million net proceeds from the newly issued 2.215% Notes, the $668 million net proceeds from selling 115 million shares of our common stock, the $346 million net proceeds from sale of equity interests in the ATMP JV, the $52 million associated with the licensing agreement with the China JVs and 35 timing of accounts payable payments. The increase of the cash was partially offset by the repurchases of an aggregate principal amount of $796 million of our outstanding 6.75% Notes, 7.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes and 7.00% Notes for $848 million in cash, the repayments in aggregate of $230 million of our Secured Revolving Line of Credit, debt interest payments of $148 million and $56 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment in the first nine months of 2016. The percentage of cash and cash equivalents held domestically was 97% as of September24, 2016 , compared to 88% at December 26, 2015. Our debt obligations of $1.6 billion net of unamortized debt issuance costs and unamortized debt discount associated with the 2.125% Notes as of September24, 2016 decreased compared to $2.2 billion at December 26, 2015. We believe our cash and cash equivalents balance along with our Secured Revolving Line of Credit will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe that in the event we decide to obtain external funding, we may be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. Should we require additional funding, such as to meet payment obligations of our long-term debt when due, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. Uncertain global economic conditions have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our business. If market conditions deteriorate, we may be limited in our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $98 million in the first nine months of 2016 compared to $285 million in the first nine months of 2015 . The improvement in operating activities was primarily due to lower operating expenses including lower labor costs, as a result of restructuring actions and receipt of $52 million associated with the licensing agreement with the China JVs, partially offset by timing of accounts payable payments and lower cash collections during the first nine months of 2016 compared to the first nine months of 2015 mainly due to timing. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $293 million in the first nine months of 2016 , which consisted of net cash inflow of $346 million from sale of equity interests in the ATMP JV, partially offset by a cash outflow of $56 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities was $179 million in the first nine months of 2015 , which consisted of net cash inflow of $235 million from purchases, sales and maturity of available for sale securities and $8 million of proceeds from sale of our building in Markham, Canada, partially offset by a cash outflow of $64 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $278 million in the first nine months of 2016 primarily due to the $681 million net proceeds from the new issued 2.215% Notes, the $668 million net proceeds from selling 115 million shares of our common stock and the $12 million proceeds from issuance of common stock under stock-based compensation equity plans, partially offset by the repurchases of an aggregate principal amount of $796 million of our outstanding 6.75% Notes, 7.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes and 7.00% Notes for $848 million in cash and repayments in aggregate of $230 million of our Secured Revolving Line of Credit. Net cash provided by financing activities was $56 million in the first nine months of 2015 , primarily due to $100 million net proceeds from our Secured Revolving Line of Credit borrowings, of which $42 million was used to repay the remaining aggregate principal amount of our 6.00% Notes during the second quarter of 2015. During the first nine months of 2016 and 2015, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation. Therefore, we did not record any effects relating to financing cash flows for these periods. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our consolidated principal contractual obligations, as of September24, 2016 , and is supplemented by the discussion following the table: 36 (1) Represents estimated aggregate interest obligations for our outstanding debt obligations that are payable in cash, excluding non-cash amortization of debt issuance costs and the impacts of the interest rate swap agreements. (2) We have purchase obligations for goods and services where payments are based, in part, on the volume or type of services we acquire. In those cases, we only included the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Purchase orders for goods and services that are cancelable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. In addition, we have included in the table above obligations for software technology and licenses and IP licenses where payments are fixed and non-cancelable. (3) Includes our currently expected purchases from GF for the remainder of 2016 for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities and minimum purchase obligations for wafer purchases for years 2017 through 2020. We cannot meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond 2020 but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. (4) Total amount excludes contractual obligations already recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets except for debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. 37 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 On February 26, 2014, we issued $600 million of our 6.75% Notes. Our 6.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March1, 2019. Our 6.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 6.75% Indenture) dated February 26, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before March 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of our 6.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 6.75% Indenture). During the third quarter of 2016, we repurchased $404 million in aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes. As of September24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes was $196 million . 7.75% Senior Notes Due 2020 On August4, 2010, we issued $500 million of our 7.75% Notes. Our 7.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February1 and August1 of each year beginning February1, 2011 until the maturity date of August1, 2020. Our 7.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.75% Indenture) dated August4, 2010 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. During the third quarter of 2016, we repurchased $242 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes. As of September24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes was $208 million . On September 28, 2016, we redeemed the remaining $208 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.75% Notes. 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 On August15, 2012, we issued $500 million of our 7.50% Notes. Our 7.50% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February15 and August15 of each year beginning February15, 2013 until the maturity date of August15, 2022. Our 7.50% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.50% Indenture) dated August15, 2012 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Prior to August15, 2022, we may redeem some or all of our 7.50% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.50% Indenture). During the third quarter of 2016, we repurchased $125 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes. As of September24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes was $350 million . 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 On June 16, 2014, we issued $500 million of our 7.00% Notes. The 7.00% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2015 until the maturity date of July1, 2024. The 7.00% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.00% Indenture) dated June 16, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before July 1, 2017, we may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes within 90 days of the closing of an equity offering with the net proceeds thereof at a redemption price equal to 107.000% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of redemption. Prior to July 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of the 7.00% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.00% Indenture). Starting July 1, 2019, we may redeem our 7.00% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: 38 During the third quarter of 2016, we repurchased $25 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes. As of September24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes was $475 million . 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 On September 14, 2016, we issued $700 million in the aggregate principal amount of 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (2.125% Notes). Our 2.125% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations and will mature on September 1, 2026, unless earlier repurchased or converted. Interest is payable in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning on March 1, 2017 . Our 2.125% Notes are governed by the terms of a base indenture and a supplemental indenture (together the 2.125% Indentures) dated September 14, 2016 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2026 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2016 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after June 1, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the our common stock, at our election. We may not redeem the notes prior to the maturity date, and no sinking fund is provided for the notes. The conversion rate will initially be 125.0031shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $8.00per share of common stock). The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest.In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date, we will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such a corporate event in certain circumstances. If we undergo a fundamental change prior to the maturity date of the notes, holders may require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased,plusaccrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. As of September24, 2016 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes was $700 million. We also granted an option to the underwriters to purchase up an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes. On September 28, 2016, this option was exercised, and we issued an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes on September 28, 2016. Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our 2.125% Notes, 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes and 7.00% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when we believe the market conditions are favorable to do so. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April14, 2015, AMD and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $75 million available for issuance of letters of credit, which remained unchanged from the loan and security agreement dated November 12, 2013, as amended on December 11, 2014. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable (90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified 39 reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million. The Secured Revolving Line of Credit matures on April14, 2020 and is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties' accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. During the third quarter of 2016, we repaid the $226 million outstanding balance. As of September24, 2016, we did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. At December26, 2015 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $230 million , at an interest rate of 4.00% . At September 24, 2016, the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had $21 million related to outstanding letters of credit and up to $395 million available for future borrowings. We report our intra-period changes in our revolving credit balance on a net basis in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as we intend the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days. As of September24, 2016 , we were in compliance with all required covenants stated in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. The agreements governing our 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes, 2.125% Notes and our Secured Revolving Line of Credit contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement would likely result in cross defaults under agreements covering other borrowings. The occurrence of a default under any of these borrowing arrangements would permit the applicable note holders or the lenders under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit to declare all amounts outstanding under those borrowing arrangements to be immediately due and payable. First Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 10, 2015, the Loan Parties entered into a first amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the First Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the First Amendment included the addition of exceptions to the liens and asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements, as well as the addition of certain definitions related thereto. Second Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April 29, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a second amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Second Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The primary amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Second Amendment related to the expansion of the definition of permitted asset dispositions to include the sale or transfer of inventory to the ATMP JV pursuant to the Equity Interest Purchase Agreement between AMD and NFME. Third Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On June 21, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a third amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Third Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. Amendments to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement effected by the Third Amendment included the further expansion of the asset sale covenants to permit the Loan Parties to enter into certain supply chain finance arrangements. Fourth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On September 7, 2016, the Loan Parties entered into a fourth amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the Fourth Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the Lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement. The primary amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan agreement effected by the Fourth Amendment was to increase the dollar limit as set forth the definition related to certain supply chain finance arrangements. Other Long-Term Liabilities Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above primarily consists of $95 million of payments due under certain software and technology licenses that will be paid through 2020. Other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above exclude amounts recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet that do not require us to make cash payments, which, as of September24, 2016 , primarily consisted of $14 million 40 of deferred gains resulting from certain real estate transactions that occurred in Sunnyvale, California in 1998, in Markham, Ontario, Canada in 2015 and 2008 and in Singapore in 2013 and $12 million interest accretion for future payments related to software and technology licenses. Operating lease accruals of $5 million and deferred rent related to our facilities in Sunnyvale, California of $3 million are excluded from other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above as they are included in the operating leases obligations. Also excluded from other long-term liabilities in the contractual obligations table above are $11 million deferred tax liabilities, $3 million non-current unrecognized tax benefits and $3 million of environmental reserves, which represent potential cash payments that could be payable by us upon settlements with the related authorities. We have not included these amounts in the contractual obligations table above because we cannot make reasonably reliable estimates regarding the timing of the settlements with the related authorities, if any. Operating Leases We lease certain of our facilities and, in some jurisdictions, we lease the land on which our facilities are built under non-cancelable lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2028. We lease certain office equipment for terms ranging from one to five years. Total future non-cancelable lease obligations as of September24, 2016 were $393 million , including $338 million of future lease payments and estimated operating costs related to the real estate transactions that occurred in Austin, Texas, Sunnyvale and Santa Clara, California, Markham, Canada, and Singapore. During the second quarter of 2016, we signed an amendment to the lease agreement associated with our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California so that the lease expires in December 2017. In connection with the amendment, the lease payments were reduced for 2017. During the third quarter of 2016, we entered into a 10 year operating lease to occupy 220,000 square feet of new office space in Santa Clara. Base rent obligation is estimated to commence in August 2017 and the total estimate base rent payments over the life of the lease are approximately $125 million . In addition to the base rent payments we will be obligated to pay certain customary amounts for our share of operating expenses and tax obligation. We will also incur costs for capital projects on the new office space. We have the option to extend the term of the lease for an additional 2 five-year periods. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations primarily include our obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties, excluding our wafer purchase commitments to GF under the WSA. As of September24, 2016 , total non-cancelable purchase obligations were $344 million . Obligations to GF Our currently expected purchases from GF for the remainder of 2016 for wafer and research and development activities, and minimum purchase obligations for wafer purchases for years 2017 through 2020 are approximately $3.2 billion . We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September24, 2016 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. 41ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) NOTE 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company or AMD) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The results of operations for the quarter ended April 1, 2017 shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year ending December30, 2017 . In the opinion of the Company's management, the information contained herein reflects all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . The Company uses a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended April1, 2017 and March26, 2016 each consisted of 13 weeks. Principles of Consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the Company's accounts and those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant inter-company accounts and transactions are eliminated. Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Inventory. In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU 2015-11), which requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. This ASU simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventory by replacing the lower of cost or market test with a lower of cost or net realizable value test. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2017 and it did not have an impact on its consolidated financial statements. Investments . In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07, Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting (ASU 2016-07), whichrequires the equity method investor to add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment qualifies for equity method accounting. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2017 and it did not have an impact on its consolidated financial statements. Stock Compensation. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09), which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2017 and elected to continue to estimate forfeitures expected to occur to determine the amount of compensation cost to be recognized in each period. In the first quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a $96 million cumulative-effect adjustment in accumulated deficit and an offsetting increase in deferred tax assets for previously unrecognized excess tax benefits that existed as of December 31, 2016. Since substantially all of the Company's U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, are subject to a valuation allowance and the realization of these assets is not more likely than not to be achieved, the Company recorded a $96 million valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets with an offsetting adjustment in accumulated deficit. The Company elected to report cash flows related to excess tax benefits as an operating activity on a prospective basis. The presentation requirement for cash flows related to employee taxes paid for withheld shares did not impact the statements of cash flows because such cash flows have historically been presented as a financing activity. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Revenue Recognition. InMay 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09), which creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies in all industries and replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.Under the new standard, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services and is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments to the new standard, including clarification on accounting for licenses of intellectual property and identifying performance obligations. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The new standard permits companies to early adopt the new standard, but not before annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The 7 Company will not early adopt the new standard and therefore the new standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal 2018. The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), or prospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application and providing additional disclosures comparing results to the previous rules in the year of adoption of the new standard (the modified retrospective method or the cumulative catchup method). The Company currently anticipates adopting the standard using the full retrospectivemethod to restate each prior reporting period presented. The Company's ability to adopt utilizing the full retrospective method is dependent upon system readiness and the completion of its analysis of information necessary to restate prior period financial statements. In 2016, the Company established a cross-functional team consisting of representatives across both business segments.While the Company is continuingto assess all potential impacts of the standard, it currently believes the mostsignificant impact relates to accelerated revenue recognition for sales to its distributors, whereby revenue is expected to be recognized upon the initial sale to the Company's distributors, instead of the current recognition upon resale by the distributors to the end customers. The Company currently expects other revenue streams to remain substantially unchanged. Aspart of the Company's assessment and implementation plan, the Company is evaluating and implementing changes to its policies, procedures and controls. Financial Instruments. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU 2016-01), which requires that most equity investments be measured at fair value, with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net income. The ASU also impacts financial liabilities under the fair value option and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, the FASB clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. Entities will have to assess the realizability of such deferred tax assets in combination with the entities' other deferred tax assets. ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-01 on its consolidated financial statements. Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (ASU 2016-02), which increases transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early application permitted. Upon adoption, lessees must apply a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. Financial Instruments . In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13). The standard changes the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and impact of ASU 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements. Statement of Cash Flows . In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (ASU 2016-15), whichis intended to reduce the existing diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years with early adoption permitted, provided that all of the amendments are adopted in the same period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-15 on its consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes . In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (ASU 2016-16), which requires entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. This amends current GAAP which prohibits recognition of current and deferred income taxes for all types of intra-entity asset transfers until the asset has been sold to an outside party. ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods therein with early application permitted. Upon adoption, the Company must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on its consolidated financial statements, as well as its planned adoption date. 8 Goodwill Impairment: In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other : Topic 350: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04), which eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test. Under the amendments in ASU 2017-04, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual and any interim impairment tests performed for periods beginning after December 15, 2019 on a prospective basis, and earlier adoption is permitted for goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2017-04 on its consolidated financial statements. Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB, which the Company has adopted or will adopt, as applicable, the Company does not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or operating results. NOTE 2. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which the Company purchases products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Sixth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On August 30, 2016, the Company entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the WSA. The Sixth Amendment modified certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for the Company's microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five -year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. The Company and GF also agreed to establish a comprehensive framework for technology collaboration for the 7nm technology node. The Sixth Amendment also provides the Company a limited waiver with rights to contract with another wafer foundry with respect to certain products in the 14nm and 7nm technology nodes and gives the Company greater flexibility in sourcing foundry services across its product portfolio. In consideration for these rights, the Company agreed to pay GF $100 million in installments starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016 through the third fiscal quarter of 2017. During the first fiscal quarter of 2017, the Company paid GF $25 million and, as of April1, 2017 , the Company paid GF $50 million in the aggregate. Starting in 2017 and continuing through 2020, the Company also agreed to make quarterly payments to GF based on the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry. Further, for each calendar year during the term of the Sixth Amendment, the Company and GF agreed to annual wafer purchase targets that increase from 2016 through 2020. If the Company does not meet the annual wafer purchase target for any calendar year, the Company will be required to pay to GF a portion of the difference between the Company's actual wafer purchases and the wafer purchase target for that year. The annual targets were established based on the Company's business and market expectations and took into account the limited waiver it received for certain products. As of April1, 2017 , the Company expected to meet its 2017 wafer purchase target. The Company and GF also agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased during 2016 and established a framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2017 to 2020. The Company's total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing, research and development activities and other for the quarters ended April1, 2017 and March26, 2016 were $176 million and $208 million , respectively. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount of prepayment and other receivables related to GF was $10 million and $32 million , respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables - related parties on its condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount payable to GF was $204 million and $255 million , respectively, included in Payables to related parties on its condensed consolidated balance sheets. Warrant Agreement . Also on August 30, 2016, in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, the Company entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala). Under the Warrant Agreement, WCH and its permitted assigns are entitled to purchase 75 million shares of the Company's common stock (the Warrant Shares) at a purchase price of $5.98 per share. The warrant is exercisable in whole or in part until February 29, 2020, provided that the maximum number of Warrant Shares that may be exercised prior to the one-year anniversary of the Warrant Agreement cannot exceed 50 million . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Warrant Agreement will only be exercisable to the extent that Mubadala does not beneficially own, either directly through any other entities directly and indirectly owned by Mubadala or its subsidiaries, an aggregate of more than 19.99% of the Company's outstanding capital stock after any such exercise. 9 GF continues to be a related party of the Company because Mubadala and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with WCH, the Company's largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. NOTE 3. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Inventories Property, Plant and Equipment The Company incurs costs for the fabrication of masks used by its foundry partners to manufacture its products. Beginning the first fiscal quarter of 2017, the Company capitalizes mask costs that are expected to be utilized in production manufacturing as the Company's product development process has become more predictable and thus supports capitalization of the mask. The capitalized mask costs begin depreciating to Cost of Sales once the products go into production. Depreciation is straight lined over a two year period which is the expected useful life of the mask. Previously mask sets were expensed to research and development. Other Assets Accrued Liabilities NOTE 4. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd. (formerly, AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd.), and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd. (formerly, Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd.), to affiliates of Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd. (formerly, Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.) (TFME), a Chinese joint stock company, to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV). As a result of the sale, TFME's affiliates own 85% of the equity interests in the ATMP JV while certain of the Company's subsidiaries own the remaining 15% . The Company has no obligations to fund the ATMP JV. The Company accounts for its equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to its significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the carrying value of the Company's investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $58 million and $59 million , respectively. Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is a related party of the Company. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and packaging (ATMP) services to the Company. The Company currently pays the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. The Company's total purchases from the ATMP JV during the quarter ended April 1, 2017 amounted to approximately $96 million . As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount payable to the ATMP JV was $125 million and $128 million , respectively, included in Payables to related parties on its condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the quarter ended April 1, 2017 , the Company recorded $2 million in Equity loss in investee on its condensed consolidated statements of operations, which includes certain expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the ATMP JV. NOTE 5. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, the Company and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner), formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the THATIC JV). The Company's equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by the Company's contribution of certain of its patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the THATIC JV's operations. The Company has no obligations to fund the THATIC JV. The Company concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. The Company determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2, as the Company does not have unilateral power to direct selling and marketing, manufacturing and product development activities related to the THATIC JV's products. Accordingly, the Company will not consolidate either of these entities and therefore accounts for its investments in the THATIC JV under the equity method of accounting. THATIC JV is a related party of the Company's. In February 2016, the Company licensed certain of its intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the THATIC JV for a total of approximately $293 million in license fee payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. The Company also expects to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV's products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. The Company will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. In March 2017, the Company entered into a development and intellectual property agreement with THATIC JV, and also expects to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV's products to be developed on the basis of such agreement. The Company will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. The Company recognizes income related to the Licensed IP over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires the Company's continuing involvement in the product development process. Royalty payments will be recognized in income once earned. The Company will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the quarter ended April 1, 2017, the Company recognized $27 million licensing gain associated with the Licensed IP and an immaterial amount of development fee as a credit to research and development expenses. During the quarter ended March 26, 2016, the Company recognized $7 million licensing gain and no development fee credit, associated with these agreements. No royalty income was recognized during the quarters ended April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016. The Company's total exposure to losses through its investment in the THATIC JV is limited to the Company's investments in the THATIC JV, which was zero as of April 1, 2017. The Company's share in the net losses of the THATIC JV for the quarter ended April 1, 2017 was not material and is not recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of operations since the Company is not obligated to fund the THATIC JV's losses in excess of the Company's investment in the THATIC JV. The Company's receivable from THATIC JV was $20 million and zero as of April 1, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables - related parties on its condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of April1, 2017 , the total assets and liabilities of the THATIC JV were not material. 10 NOTE 6. Debt and Secured Revolving Line of Credit Debt 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 On September 14, 2016, the Company issued $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 ( 2.125% Notes). The Company also granted an option to the underwriters to purchase an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes. On September 28, 2016, this option was exercised in full and the Company issued an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes. The 2.125% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company and will mature on September 1, 2026, unless earlier repurchased or converted. Interest is payable in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning on March 1, 2017. The 2.125% Notes are governed by the terms of a base indenture and a supplemental indenture (together the 2.125% Indentures) dated September 14, 2016 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2026 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2016 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. The first event above was met in the first quarter of 2017 and as a result, the 2.125% Notes are convertible at the option of the holder in the second quarter of 2017. On or after June 1, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the Company will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock, at the Company's election. The Company may not redeem the notes prior to the maturity date, and no sinking fund is provided for the notes. The conversion rate will initially be 125.0031 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $8.00 per share of common stock). The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest.In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date, the Company will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such a corporate event in certain circumstances. If the Company undergoes a fundamental change prior to the maturity date of the notes, holders may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased,plusaccrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accounting for the issuance of the 2.125% Notes, the Company separated the 2.125% Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amounts of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have associated conversion features. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the par value of the 2.125% Notes as a whole. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its book value (debt discount) is accreted to interest expense over the term of the 2.125% Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification. In accounting for the issuance costs related to the 2.125% Notes, the Company allocated the total amount of issuance costs incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative fair values. Issuance costs attributable to the liability component are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2.125% Notes, and the issuance costs attributable to the equity component were netted against the equity component in additional paid-in capital. During 2016, the Company recorded issuance costs of $15 million and $9 million , respectively, for the liability and equity portions. 11 The 2.125% Notes consisted of the following: (1) Included in the consolidated balance sheets within Long-term debt, net and amortized over the remaining life of the notes using the effective interest rate method. (2) Included in the consolidated balance sheets within additional paid-in capital, net of $9 million of equity issuance costs. As of April1, 2017 , the remaining life of the 2.125% Notes was approximately 114 months . Based on the closing price of the Company's common stock of $14.55 on March 31, 2017, the last business day of the first quarter of 2017 , the if-converted value of the 2.125% Notes exceeded its principal amount by approximately $659 million . The effective interest rate of the liability component of the 2.125% Notes is 8% . This interest rate was based on the interest rates of similar liabilities at the time of issuance that did not have associated conversion features. The following table sets forth total interest expense recognized related to the 2.125% Notes: 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 On February26, 2014, the Company issued $600 million of its 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019 ( 6.75% Notes). The 6.75% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March1, 2019. The 6.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 6.75% Indenture) dated February 26, 2014 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. During the first quarter of 2017 , the Company settled $5 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.75% Notes with treasury stock. As of April1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 6.75% Notes was $191 million . 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 On August15, 2012, the Company issued $500 million of its 7.50% Senior Notes due 2022 ( 7.50% Notes). The 7.50% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on February15 and August15 of each year beginning February15, 2013 until the maturity date of August15, 2022. The 7.50% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.50% Indenture) dated August15, 2012 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. During the first quarter of 2017 , the Company settled $3 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Notes with treasury stock. As of April1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.50% Notes was $347 million . 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 On June16, 2014, the Company issued $500 million of its 7.00% Senior Notes due 2024 ( 7.00% Notes). The 7.00% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2015 until the maturity date of July1, 2024. The 7.00% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.00% Indenture) dated June 16, 2014 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. 12 During the first quarter of 2017 , the Company settled $26 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.00% Notes with treasury stock. As of April1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes was $390 million . Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes The Company may elect to purchase or otherwise retire the 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes and 2.125% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when the Company believes the market conditions are favorable. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April14, 2015, the Company and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. (AMDISS) and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). Fifth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On March 21, 2017, the Loan Parties entered into a fifth amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement (the Fifth Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. The Fifth Amendment amends the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement by, among other things, extending the maturity date of the Secured Revolving Line of Credit from April 14, 2020 to March 21, 2022, reducing the Applicable Margin (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement), reducing the commitment fee, lowering the minimum threshold of Availability (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) required to be maintained by the Company and AMDISS in order to avoid cash dominion, amending the borrowing base reporting requirement, amending maximum dollar limits related to supply chain finance arrangements, and reducing the amount of the Secured Revolving Line of Credit available for the issuance for letters of credit from $75 million to $45 million . The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $45 million available for issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable ( 90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million . The Secured Revolving Line of Credit is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties' accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the Company did no t have any borrowings outstanding under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. At April1, 2017 , the Company had $19 million letter of credit outstanding and up to $209 million available for future borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. The Company reports its intra-period changes in its revolving credit balance on a net basis in its condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as the Company intends the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days . As of April1, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with all required covenants in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. NOTE 7. Net Loss Per Share Basic net loss per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Diluted net loss per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive shares outstanding. Potentially dilutive shares include stock options and restricted stock units and potentially dilutive shares issuable upon conversion of the 2.125% Notes and the exercise of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement. 13 The following table sets forth the components of basic and diluted net loss per share: Potential sharesfrom stock options, restricted stock units, the 2.125% Notes and the warrants under the Warrant Agreement totaling 195 million for the first quarter of 2017 and potential sharesfrom stock options and restricted stock units totaling 50 million for the first quarter of 2016 were not included in the net loss per share calculations because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. NOTE 8.Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Cash and financial instruments measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis as of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 are summarized below: 14 (1) The Company did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level2 of the fair value hierarchy during the quarter ended April 1, 2017 or the year ended December31, 2016 . (2) The Company's Level 1 assets are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. (3) The Company's Level 2 assets are valued using broker reports that utilize quoted market prices for identical or comparable instruments. Brokers gather observable inputs for all of the Company's fixed income securities from a variety of industry data providers and other third-party sources. Available-for-sale securities held by the Company as of April1, 2017 consisted of commercial paper. The amortized cost of available-for-sale securities approximates the fair value for all periods presented. In addition to those amounts presented above, as of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the Company had approximately $2 million of investments in government money market funds, used as collateral for letters of credit deposits, which were included in Other current assets on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These government money market funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these deposits. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the Company also had approximately $15 million of investments in mutual funds held in a Rabbi trust established for the Company's deferred compensation plan, which were included in Other assets on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These mutual funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these investments. Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis. The Company carries its financial instruments at fair value with the exception of its debt. Financial instruments that are not recorded at fair value are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes. The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of financial instruments not recorded at fair value are as follows: (1) Carrying amounts of long-term debt are net of unamortized debt issuance costs of $24 million as of April1, 2017 and $25 million as of December31, 2016 , based on the adoption of ASU 2015-03 and net of unamortized debt discount associated with the 2.125% Notes of $302 million as of April1, 2017 and $308 million as of December31, 2016 . The Company's long-term debt is classified within Level 2. The fair value of the debt was estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The fair value of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable and other short-term obligations approximate their carrying value based on existing payment terms. 15 Hedging Transactions and Derivative Financial Instruments Cash Flow Hedges The following table shows the amount of gain (loss) included in accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) and the amount of gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) and included in earnings related to the foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges: The Company's foreign currency derivative contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets, such as currency spot and forward rates. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other current assets should the foreign currency forward contracts be in a gain position or included in Other current liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. These amounts were recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as follows: For the foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portions of the hedging relationship and the amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were immaterial. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the notional values of the Company's outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $201 million and $138 million , respectively. All the contracts mature within 12 months, and, upon maturity, the amounts recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) are expected to be reclassified into earnings. The Company hedges its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions over a maximum of 12 months. NOTE 9. Income Taxes In the first quarter of 2017 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $5 million , consisting of $2 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $4 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $1 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits. In the first quarter of 2016 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $1 million , consisting of $3 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations, partially offset by $2 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. As of April1, 2017 , substantially all of the Company's U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income which, as of April1, 2017 , in management's estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. The Company's total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of April1, 2017 were $42 million . The Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of tax audits are highly uncertain. NOTE 10. Segment Reporting Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the Company's Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. The Company has the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of its intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, the Company has an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Also included in this category are, employee stock-based compensation expense and restructuring and other special charges, net. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: The following table provides major items included in All Other category: NOTE 11. Stock-Based Incentive Compensation Plans Restricted Stock Units In the first quarters of 2017 and 2016, the Company granted 0.6 million and 0.8 million shares of restricted stock units, respectively, with weighted average grant date fair values per share of $12.46 and $2.14 , respectively. NOTE 12. Commitments and Contingencies Warranties and Indemnities The Company generally warrants that its products sold to its customers will conform to the Company's approved specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service for one year. Subject to certain exceptions, the Company also offers a three-year limited warranty to end users for only those central processing unit (CPU) and AMD accelerated processing unit (APU) products that are commonly referred to as "processors in a box" and for certain server CPU products. The 16 Company also offers extended limited warranties to certain customers of "tray" microprocessor products and/or professional graphics products who have written agreements with the Company and target their computer systems at the commercial and/or embedded markets. Changes in the Company's estimated liability for product warranty were as follows: In addition to product warranties, the Company, from time to time in its normal course of business, indemnifies other parties, with whom it enters into contractual relationships, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. In these limited matters, the Company has agreed to hold certain third parties harmless against specific types of claims or losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, third-party claims that the Company's products when used for their intended purpose(s) and under specific conditions infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, or other specified claims made against the indemnified party. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under these indemnification obligations due to the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim and indemnification provision. Historically, payments made by the Company under these obligations have not been material. Contingencies Securities Class Action On January15, 2014, a class action lawsuit captioned Hatamian v. AMD, et al. , C.A. No.3:14-cv-00226 (the Hatamian Lawsuit) was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual officers for alleged violations of Section10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.The plaintiffs seek to represent a proposed class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company's common stock during the period April4, 2011 through October18, 2012.The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual officers regarding the Company's 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period.The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On July 7, 2014, the Company filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs' claims. On March 31, 2015, the Court denied the motion to dismiss. On May 14, 2015, the Company filed its answer to plaintiffs' corrected amended complaint. On September 4, 2015, plaintiffs filed their motion for class certification, and on March 16, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs' motion. A court-ordered mediation held in January 2016 did not result in a settlement of the lawsuit. The discovery process has concluded. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits On March 20, 2014, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Wessels v. Read, et al. , Case No. 1:14 cv-262486 (Wessels) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the Santa Clara County Superior Court of the State of California. The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual directors and officers regarding its 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period. On April 27, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Christopher Hamilton and David Hamilton v. Barnes, et al. , Case No. 5:15-cv-01890 (Hamilton) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the 17 United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-01890. On September 29, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Jake Ha v Caldwell, et al., Case No. 3:15-cv-04485 (Ha) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit also seeks a court order voiding the stockholder vote on the Company's 2015 proxy. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-04485. The Wessels, Hamilton and Ha shareholder derivative lawsuits are currently stayed. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. ZiiLabs Litigation On December16, 2016, a patent lawsuit captioned ZiiLabs v. AMD , C.A. No. 2:16-cv-1418 in the United States District Court for Eastern District of Texas (the "ZiiLabs Lawsuit") was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that we infringed four patents related generally to graphics processors and memory controllers. The complaint seeks damages, interest, and attorneys' fees. ZiiLabs filed several similar lawsuits against other companies on the same day. On the same date, ZiiLabs also filed a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission ("USITC") pursuant to Section337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 against us and several other companies asserting the same four patents ("USITC Proceeding"). The complaint seeks a limited exclusion order barring the importation of certain products that contain AMD memory controllers and graphics processors. Some of AMD's customers are also named respondents. On January18, 2017, the USITC announced that it would institute the investigation, entitled 337-TA-1037, In the Matter of Certain Graphics Processors, DDR Memory Controllers, and Products Containing the Same . Discovery is ongoing, and the target date for the USITC to issue a final determination is June 25, 2018. The Ziilabs Lawsuit has been stayed pending completion of the USITC Proceeding. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Other Legal Matters The Company is a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that arose in the normal course of business. With respect to these matters, based on the management's current knowledge, the Company believes that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss, if any, will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. NOTE 13. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (the 2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on its ongoing efforts to simplify its business and better align resources around its priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan largely involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and included organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan were completed during the first quarter of 2017. The liabilities related to the 2015 Restructuring Plan recorded in Other current liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 were zero and $3 million , respectively. 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (the 2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of its real estate footprint with its reduced headcount. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was completed during the third quarter of 2015. The liabilities related to the 2014 Restructuring Plan recorded in Other current liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 were $2 million and $4 million , respectively. 18 NOTE 14. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss The tables below summarize the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss by component: 19 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates," "anticipates," or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology.The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: demand for AMD's products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; future restructuring activities; the nature and extent of AMD's future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF) and the materiality of these payments; the materiality of AMD's future purchases from GF; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMD's expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; sales patterns of AMD's PC products and semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products for game consoles; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; that other unrecognized tax benefits will not materially change in the next 12 months; that AMD's cash and cash equivalents balances together with the availability under that certain secured revolving line of credit (Secured Revolving Line of Credit) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, will be sufficient to fund AMD's operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMD's ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD's expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the securities class action and the shareholder derivative suit will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; and AMD does not expect to pay dividends in the future. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: Intel Corporation's dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit AMD's ability to compete effectively; AMD has a wafer supply agreement with GF with obligations to purchase all of its microprocessor and APU product requirements, and a certain portion of its GPU product requirements from GF with limited exceptions. If GF is not able to satisfy AMD's manufacturing requirements, its business could be adversely impacted; AMD relies on third parties to manufacture its products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, AMD's business could be materially adversely affected; failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for AMD's products could negatively impact its financial results; the success of AMD's business is dependent upon its ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to its customers while supporting and coinciding with significant industry transitions; if AMD cannot generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow or obtain external financing, it may face a cash shortfall and be unable to make all of its planned investments in research and development or other strategic investments; the loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on AMD; AMD's receipt of revenue from its semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon its technology being designed into third-party products and the success of those products; global economic uncertainty may adversely impact AMD's business and operating results; the markets in which AMD's products are sold are highly competitive; AMD may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations or meet its working capital requirements; AMD has a large amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial position and prevent it from implementing its strategy or fulfilling its contractual obligations; the agreements governing AMD's notes and the Secured Revolving Line of Credit impose restrictions on AMD that may adversely affect its ability to operate its business; AMD's issuance to West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH) of warrants to purchase 75 million shares of its common stock, if and when exercised, will dilute the ownership interests of AMD's existing stockholders, and the conversion of the 2.125% Notes may dilute the ownership interest of AMD's existing stockholders, or may otherwise depress the price of its common stock; uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of AMD's products could materially adversely affect it; the demand for AMD's products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for AMD's products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations; AMD's ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property; AMD depends on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software and other computer platform components to support its business; if AMD loses Microsoft Corporation's support for its products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on AMD's products, its ability to sell its products could be materially adversely affected; AMD's reliance on third-party distributors and AIB partners subjects it to certain risks; AMD's inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel may hinder its business; in the event of a change of control, AMD may not be able to repurchase its outstanding debt as required by the applicable indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit, which would result in a default under the indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit; the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect its business in the future; acquisitions, divestitures and/or joint ventures could disrupt its business, harm its financial condition and operating results or dilute, or adversely affect the price of, its common stock; AMD's business is dependent upon the proper functioning of its internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt its business, processes 20 and internal controls; data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise AMD's intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to its business and reputation; AMD's operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns; if essential equipment, materials or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture its products, AMD could be materially adversely affected; if AMD's products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, it could be materially adversely affected; costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on AMD; if AMD fails to maintain the efficiency of its supply chain as it responds to changes in customer demand for its products, its business could be materially adversely affected; AMD outsources to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of its product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services; AMD may incur future impairments of goodwill; AMD's stock price is subject to volatility; AMD's worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on it; worldwide political conditions may adversely affect demand for AMD's products; unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect AMD; AMD's inability to effectively control the sales of its products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on it; if AMD cannot adequately protect its technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, it may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses; AMD is a party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause it to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit it from selling its products; AMD's business is subject to potential tax liabilities; and AMD is subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as a variety of other laws or regulations that could result in additional costs and liabilities. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see "PartII, Item1A-Risk Factors" beginning on page 36 and "Financial Condition" beginning on page30 and other risks and uncertainties set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 21 AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Sony is a trademark of Sony Corporation. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements andrelated notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015, and for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2016 as filed in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016. Overview We are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Within the global semiconductor industry, we offer primarily: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated as an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, "us," "our" or "AMD"), including a discussion of our results of operations for the quarter ended April 1, 2017 compared to the quarter ended March 26, 2016 , an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. During the first quarter of 2017, we focused on continuing to execute our major roadmap milestones as we introduced AMD Ryzen 7 desktop processors, our first processors based on our entirely new AMD "Zen" core microarchitecture. We designed AMD Ryzen desktop processors for the high performance desktop market and to bring multi-core performance to PC gamers, creators and enthusiasts. Initial customer demand for our Ryzen desktop processors was strong and sales of these products were accretive to our gross margin in the first quarter of 2017. Net revenue in the first quarter of 2017 was $984 million, an 18% increase compared to the first quarter of 2016. Gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, for the first quarter of 2017 was 34%, an increase of 2 percentage points from the first quarter of 2016. We reduced our operating and net losses during the first quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year period. Operating loss for the first quarter of 2017 was $29 million compared to an operating loss of $68 million in the first quarter of 2016 and during the first quarter of 2017, net loss was $73 million compared to a net loss of $109 million in the first quarter of 2016. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of the end of the first quarter of 2017 were $943 million, compared to $1.26 billion at December 31, 2016. Total debt as of the end of the first quarter of 2017 was $1.41 billion, a decrease from $1.44 billion at December 31, 2016. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist you in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year and quarter to quarter, the primary factors that resulted in those changes, and how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our financial statements. Results of Operations Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses our operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. We have the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete GPUs and professional graphics; and 22 the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom SoC products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. Included in this category are, employee stock-based compensation expense and restructuring and other special charges, net. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended April1, 2017 and March26, 2016 each consisted of 13 weeks. Our operating results tend to vary seasonally with the markets in which our products are sold. For example, historically, first quarter PC product sales are generally lower than fourth quarter sales. In addition, with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles, we expect sales patterns to follow the seasonal trends of a consumer business with sales in the first half of the year being lower than sales in the second half of the year. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $593 million in the first quarter of 2017 increased by 29% , compared to net revenue of $460 million in the first quarter of 2016 , primarily as a result of a 24% increase in average selling price primarily attributable to our microprocessor products and GPU products. The increase in average selling price of our microprocessor products was primarily driven by our desktop microprocessor products resulting from sales of our recently launched high performance Ryzen desktop processors. The increase in average selling price of our GPU products was primarily driven by desktop GPU products. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $15 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $70 million in the first quarter of 2016 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue , partially offset by the increase in cost of sales driven by the increase in net revenue and increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $391 million in the first quarter of 2017 increased by 5% compared to net revenue of $372 million in the first quarter of 2016 . The increase in net revenue was primarily due to higher unit shipments of our semi-custom SoC products, partially offset by a decrease in non-recurring engineering (NRE) revenue. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $9 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to operating income of $16 million in the first quarter of 2016 . The decline in operating results was primarily due to a $25 million increase in operating expenses, partially offset by a $20 million increase in IP licensing gain related to the THATIC JV due to timing because the IP licensing gain was recognized for a full quarter in the first quarter of 2017 compared to a partial quarter in the first quarter of 2016 as the recognition started in March 2016. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. 23 All Other All Other operating loss of $23 million in the first quarter of 2017 was related to stock-based compensation expense. All Other operating loss of $14 million in the first quarter of 2016 was primarily related to stock-based compensation expense. International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 76% in the first quarter of 2017 and 85% in the first quarter of 2016 . The decrease in international sales as a percentage of net revenue in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 was primarily driven by a higher proportion of revenue from domestic sales of our desktop microprocessor products, GPU products and semi-custom SoC products. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Interest Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net and Income Taxes The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 34% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to 32% in the first quarter of 2016 . The improvement in gross margin was primarily driven by a higher overall mix of revenue from our Computing and Graphics segment, primarily due to richer product mix due to Ryzen desktop processors sales. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $266 million in the first quarter of 2017 increased by $24 million , or 10% , compared to $242 million in the first quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a $20 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment due to higher data center related investments and a $5 million increase attributable to our All Other category in stock-based compensation expense. 24 Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $121 million in the first quarter of 2017 increased by $16 million , or 15% , compared to $105 million in the first quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a $9 million increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment and a $5 million increase attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, both primarily due to increases in sales and marketing activities. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on our ongoing efforts to simplify our business and better align resources around our priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and included organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan were completed during the first quarter of 2017. The liabilities related to the 2015 Restructuring Plan recorded in Other current liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 were zero and $3 million , respectively. 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of our real estate footprint with our reduced headcount. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was completed during the third quarter of 2015. The liabilities related to the 2014 Restructuring Plan recorded in Other current liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 were $2 million and $4 million , respectively. Interest Expense Interest expense of $32 million in the first quarter of 2017 decreased by $8 million compared to $40 million in the first quarter of 2016 primarily due to a lower overall interest rate and lower debt balance. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net was $5 million in the first quarter of 2017 , compared to zero in the first quarter of 2016 . In the first quarter of 2017 , we recognized $5 million of other expense, net, primarily due to the $4 million loss on the debt settlement with treasury stock and a $3 million investment impairment charge of our cost method investments, partially offset by $2 million of interest income. Income Taxes In the first quarter of 2017 , we recorded an income tax provision of $5 million, consisting of $2 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $4 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $1 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits. We have not recognized the tax benefit of future foreign tax credits associated with the withholding tax expense as the size and age profile of existing tax attributes does not allow us to satisfy the "more likely than not" criterion for the recognition of deferred tax assets. In the first quarter of 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $1 million, consisting of $3 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations, partially offset by $2 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. As of April1, 2017 , substantially all of our U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income, which as of April1, 2017 , in our estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. Our gross unrecognized tax benefits as of April1, 2017 were $42 million . We do not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of our tax audits are highly uncertain. Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which we allocated in our condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: For all periods presented, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related financing cash flows. Stock-based compensation expense of $23 million in the first quarter of 2017 increased by $7 million compared to $16 million in the first quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a higher weighted average grant date fair value of unvested restricted stock units in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the first quarter of 2016. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which we purchase products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Sixth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On August 30, 2016, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the WSA. The Sixth Amendment modified certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for our microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five-year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. AMD and GF also agreed to establish a comprehensive framework for technology collaboration for the 7nm technology node. The Sixth Amendment also provides us a limited waiver with rights to contract with another wafer foundry with respect to certain products in the 14nm and 7nm technology nodes and gives us greater flexibility in sourcing foundry services across our product portfolio. In consideration for these rights, we agreed to pay GF $100 million in installments starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016 through the third fiscal quarter of 2017. During the first fiscal quarter of 2017, we paid GF $25 million and, as of April1, 2017 , we paid GF $50 million in the aggregate. Starting in 2017 and continuing through 2020, we also agreed to make quarterly payments to GF based on the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry. Further, for each calendar year during the term of the Sixth Amendment, AMD and GF agreed to annual wafer purchase targets that increase from 2016 through 2020. If we do not meet the annual wafer purchase target for any calendar year, we will be required to pay to GF a portion of the difference between the our actual wafer purchases and the wafer purchase target for that year. The annual targets were established based on our business and market expectations and take into account the limited waiver we received for certain products. As of April1, 2017 , we expect to meet our 2017 wafer purchase target. AMD and GF also agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased during 2016 and established a framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2017 to 2020. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing, research and development activities and other for the quarters ended April1, 2017 and March26, 2016 were $176 million and $208 million , respectively. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount of prepayment and other receivables related to GF was $10 million and $32 million , included in Prepayment and other receivables - related parties on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, respectively. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount payable to GF was $204 million and $255 million , respectively, included in Payable to related parties on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Warrant Agreement . Also on August 30, 2016, in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, we entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala). Under the Warrant Agreement, WCH and its permitted assigns are entitled to purchase 75 million shares of our common stock (the Warrant Shares) at a purchase price of $5.98 per share. The warrant is exercisable in whole or in part until February 29, 2020, provided that the maximum number of Warrant Shares that may be exercised prior to the one-year anniversary of the Warrant Agreement cannot exceed 50 million. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Warrant Agreement will only be exercisable to the extent that Mubadala does not beneficially own, either directly through any other entities 25 directly and indirectly owned by Mubadala or its subsidiaries, an aggregate of more than 19.99% of our outstanding capital stock after any such exercise. GF continues to be a related party of AMD because Mubadala and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech) are affiliated with WCH, our largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, we and certain of our subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd. (formerly, AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd.), and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd. (formerly, Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd.), to affiliates of Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd. (formerly, Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.) (TFME), a Chinese joint stock company, to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV). As a result of the sale, TFME's affiliates own 85% of the equity interests in the ATMP JV while certain of our subsidiaries own the remaining 15%. We have no obligations to fund the ATMP JV. We account for our equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to our significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the carrying value of our investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $58 million and $59 million , respectively. Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is our related party. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and packaging (ATMP) services to us. We currently pay the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. Our total purchases from the ATMP JV during the quarter ended April 1, 2017 amounted to approximately $96 million . As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount payable to the ATMP JV was $125 million and $128 million , respectively, included in Payables to related parties on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the quarter ended April 1, 2017 , we recorded $2 million in Equity loss in investee on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, which includes certain expenses incurred by us on behalf of the ATMP JV. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, we and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner), formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the THATIC JV). Our equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by our contribution of certain of its patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the THATIC JV's operations. We have no obligations to fund the THATIC JV. We concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by the JV Partner. We determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2, as we do not have unilateral power to direct selling and marketing, manufacturing and product development activities related to the THATIC JV's products. Accordingly, we will not consolidate either of these entities and therefore account for our investments in the THATIC JV under the equity method of accounting. THATIC JV is a related party of ours. In February 2016, we licensed certain of our intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the THATIC JV for a total of approximately $293 million in license fee payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. We also expect to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV's products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. We will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. In March 2017, we entered into a development and intellectual property agreement with THATIC JV, and also expect to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV's products to be developed on the basis of such agreement. We will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. We recognize income related to the Licensed IP over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires our continuing involvement in the product development process. Royalty payments will be recognized in income once earned. We will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the quarter ended April 1, 2017, we recognized $27 million licensing gain associated with the Licensed IP and an immaterial amount of development fee as a credit to research and development expenses. During the quarter ended March 26, 2016, we recognized $7 million licensing gain and no development fee credit, associated with these agreements. No royalty income was recognized during the quarters ended April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016. 26 Our total exposure to losses through our investment in the THATIC JV is limited to our investments in the THATIC JV, which was zero as of April 1, 2017. Our share in the net losses of the THATIC JV for the quarter ended April 1, 2017 was not material and is not recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of operations since we are not obligated to fund the THATIC JV's losses in excess of our investment in the THATIC JV. Our receivable from THATIC JV was $20 million and zero as of April 1, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables - related parties on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of April1, 2017 , the total assets and liabilities of the THATIC JV were not material. 27 FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April1, 2017 , our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $943 million compared to $1.26 billion as of December 31, 2016. The decrease in the first quarter of 2017 was due to net cash used in our operating and investing activities, partially offset by cash provided by financing activities, as described below. The percentage of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held domestically was 93% as of April1, 2017 , compared to 98% at December 31, 2016. The following is a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated: Our debt obligations of $1.41 billion net of unamortized debt issuance costs and unamortized debt discount associated with the 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (2.125% Notes) as of April1, 2017 decreased from $1.44 billion at December 31, 2016. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance along with our Secured Revolving Line of Credit will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe that in the event we decide to obtain external funding, we may be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. Should we require additional funding, such as to meet payment obligations of our long-term debt when due, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. Uncertain global economic conditions have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our business. If market conditions deteriorate, we may be limited in our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $299 million in the first quarter of 2017 compared to $42 million in the first quarter of 2016 . The increase in cash used in operating activities was primarily due to timing of accounts payable payments, partially offset by the decrease in interest payments due to lower debt balance in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016 . Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $246 million in the first quarter of 2017 , which consisted of cash outflows of $221 million for purchases of available-for-sale securities and $23 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities was $26 million in the first quarter of 2016 , primarily for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $3 million in the first quarter of 2017 , primarily due to a cash inflow of $8 million for proceeds from issuance of common stock from the exercise of employee stock options, partially offset by a cash outflow of $5 million for tax withholding on the vesting of restricted stock. Net cash used in financing activities was $1 million in the first quarter of 2016 . 28 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our consolidated principal contractual obligations, as of April1, 2017 , and is supplemented by the discussion following the table: (1) Amounts largely represent future fixed and non-cancelable cash payments associated with software technology and licenses and IP licenses, including the payments due within the next 12 months. (2) Represents estimated aggregate interest obligations for our outstanding debt obligations that are payable in cash, excluding non-cash amortization of debt issuance costs. (3) We have purchase obligations for goods and services where payments are based, in part, on the volume or type of services we acquire. In those cases, we only included the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Purchase orders for goods and services that are cancelable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. (4) Includes our currently expected purchases from GF for the remainder of 2017 for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities and minimum purchase obligations for wafer purchases for years 2018 through 2020. We cannot meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond 2020 but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. (5) Total amount excludes contractual obligations already recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets except for debt obligations and other liabilities related to software and technology licenses and IP licenses. The expected timing of payments of the obligations in the preceding table is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. 29 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 On February 26, 2014, we issued $600 million of our 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 (6.75% Notes). Our 6.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March1, 2019. Our 6.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 6.75% Indenture) dated February 26, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before March 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of our 6.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 6.75% Indenture). During the first quarter of 2017 , we settled $5 million in aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes with treasury stock. As of April1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes was $191 million . 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 On August15, 2012, we issued $500 million of our 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 (7.50% Notes). Our 7.50% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February15 and August15 of each year beginning February15, 2013 until the maturity date of August15, 2022. Our 7.50% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.50% Indenture) dated August15, 2012 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Prior to August15, 2022, we may redeem some or all of our 7.50% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.50% Indenture). During the first quarter of 2017 , we settled $3 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes with treasury stock. As of April1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes was $347 million . 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 On June 16, 2014, we issued $500 million of our 7.00%Senior Notes Due 2024 (7.00% Notes). The 7.00% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2015 until the maturity date of July1, 2024. The 7.00% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.00% Indenture) dated June 16, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before July 1, 2017, we may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes within 90 days of the closing of an equity offering with the net proceeds thereof at a redemption price equal to 107.000% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of redemption. Prior to July 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of the 7.00% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.00% Indenture). Starting July 1, 2019, we may redeem our 7.00% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: During the first quarter of 2017 , we settled $26 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes with treasury stock. As of April1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes was $390 million . 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 On September 14, 2016, we issued $700 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes. We also granted an option to the underwriters to purchase up to an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes. On September 28, 2016, this option was exercised in full and we issued an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes. Our 2.125% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations and will mature on September 1, 2026, unless earlier repurchased or converted. Interest is payable in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning on March 1, 2017. Our 2.125% Notes are governed by the terms of a base indenture and a supplemental indenture (together the 2.125% Indentures) dated September 14, 2016 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2026 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2016 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. The first event above was met in the first quarter of 2017 and as a result, the 2.125% Notes are convertible at the option of the holder in the second quarter of 2017. On or after June 1, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the our common stock, at our election. We may not redeem the notes prior to the maturity date, and no sinking fund is provided for the notes. The conversion rate will initially be 125.0031shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $8.00per share of common stock). The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest.In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date, we will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such a corporate event in certain circumstances. If we undergo a fundamental change prior to the maturity date of the notes, holders may require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased,plusaccrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. As of April1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes was $805 million. Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes and 2.125% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when we believe the market conditions are favorable. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April14, 2015, AMD and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. (AMDISS) and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). Fifth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On March 21, 2017, the Loan Parties entered into a fifth amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement (the Fifth Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. The Fifth Amendment amends the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement by, among other things, extending the maturity date of the Secured Revolving Line of Credit from April 14, 2020 to March21, 2022, reducing the Applicable Margin (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement), reducing the commitment fee, lowering the minimum threshold of Availability (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) required to be maintained by AMD and AMDISS in order to avoid cash dominion, amending the borrowing base reporting requirement, amending maximum dollar limits related to supply chain finance arrangements, and reducing the amount of the Secured Revolving Line of Credit available for the issuance for letters of credit from $75 million to $45 million. The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $45 million available for issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable ( 90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million . The Secured Revolving Line of Credit is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties' accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. As of April1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , we did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. At April1, 2017 , we had $19 million letters of credit outstanding and up to $209 million available for future borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. We report our intra-period changes in our revolving credit balance on a net basis in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as we intend the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days. As of April1, 2017 , we were in compliance with all required covenants in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. The agreements governing our 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes, 2.125% Notes and our Secured Revolving Line of Credit contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement would likely result in cross defaults under agreements covering other borrowings. The occurrence of a default under any of these borrowing arrangements would permit the applicable note holders or the lenders under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit to declare all amounts outstanding under those borrowing arrangements to be immediately due and payable. Operating Leases 30 We lease certain of our facilities under non-cancelable lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2028. We lease certain office equipment for terms ranging from one to five years. Total future non-cancelable lease obligations as of April1, 2017 were $356 million , including $301 million of future lease payments and estimated operating costs related to the real estate transactions that occurred in Austin, Texas; Sunnyvale and Santa Clara, California; Markham, Ontario, Canada; and Singapore. During the second quarter of 2016, we signed an amendment to the lease agreement associated with our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California so that the lease expires in December 2017. In connection with the amendment, the lease payments were reduced for 2017. During the third quarter of 2016, we entered into a 10 year operating lease to occupy 220,000 square feet of new office space in Santa Clara, California. Base rent obligation is estimated to commence in August 2017 and the total estimate base rent payments over the life of the lease are approximately $104 million . In addition to the base rent payments we will be obligated to pay certain customary amounts for our share of operating expenses and tax obligations. We will also incur costs for capital projects on the new office space. We have the option to extend the term of the lease for two additional five-year periods. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations primarily include our obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties, excluding our wafer purchase commitments to GF under the WSA. As of April1, 2017 , total non-cancelable purchase obligations were $474 million . Obligations to GF Our currently expected purchases from GF for the remainder of 2017 for wafer and research and development activities, and minimum purchase obligations for wafer purchases for years 2018 through 2020 are approximately $3.2 billion . We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April1, 2017 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with management's expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes during the quarter ended April 1, 2017 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . We will perform an annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter of 2017 pursuant to our accounting policy. However, we will also test for goodwill impairment at any time during the year if there are indicators of impairment present. If there are declines in our market capitalization, business climate or operating results, we may incur impairment charges that could be material. 31ITEM1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 3 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 4 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 5 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. 6 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) NOTE 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Presentation. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company or AMD) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. The results of operations for the quarter and six months ended July 1, 2017 shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year ending December30, 2017 . In the opinion of the Company's management, the information contained herein reflects all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . The Company uses a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters and six months ended July1, 2017 and June25, 2016 each consisted of 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively. Principles of Consolidation. The condensed consolidated financial statements include the Company's accounts and those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant inter-company accounts and transactions are eliminated. Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Inventory. In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU 2015-11), which requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. This ASU simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventory by replacing the lower of cost or market test with a lower of cost or net realizable value test. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2017 and it did not have an impact on its consolidated financial statements. Investments . In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07, Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting (ASU 2016-07), whichrequires the equity method investor to add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investor's previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment qualifies for equity method accounting. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2017 and it did not have an impact on its consolidated financial statements. Stock Compensation. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09), which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2017 and elected to continue to estimate forfeitures expected to occur to determine the amount of compensation cost to be recognized in each period. In the first quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a $96 million cumulative-effect adjustment in accumulated deficit and an offsetting increase in deferred tax assets for previously unrecognized excess tax benefits that existed as of December 31, 2016. Since substantially all of the Company's U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, are subject to a valuation allowance and the realization of these assets is not more likely than not to be achieved, the Company recorded a $96 million valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets with an offsetting adjustment in accumulated deficit. The Company elected to report cash flows related to excess tax benefits as an operating activity on a prospective basis. The presentation requirement for cash flows related to employee taxes paid for withheld shares did not impact the statements of cash flows because such cash flows have historically been presented as a financing activity. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Revenue Recognition. InMay 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09), which creates a single source of revenue guidance under U.S. GAAP for all companies in all industries and replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.Under the new standard, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services and is recognized in an amount that reflects the consideration which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the new standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments to the new standard, including clarification on accounting for licenses of intellectual property and identifying performance obligations. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The new standard permits companies to early adopt the new standard, but not before annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The 7 Company will not early adopt the new standard and therefore the new standard will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of its fiscal 2018. The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), or prospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application and providing additional disclosures comparing results to the previous rules in the year of adoption of the new standard (the modified retrospective method or the cumulative catchup method). The Company currently anticipates adopting the standard using the full retrospectivemethod to restate each prior reporting period presented. The Company's ability to adopt utilizing the full retrospective method is dependent upon system readiness and the completion of its analysis of information necessary to restate prior period financial statements. In 2016, the Company established a cross-functional team consisting of representatives across both business segments.While the Company is continuingto assess all potential impacts of the standard, it currently believes the mostsignificant impact relates to accelerated revenue recognition for sales to its distributors, whereby revenue is expected to be recognized upon the initial sale to the Company's distributors, instead of the current recognition upon resale by the distributors to the end customers. The Company currently expects other revenue streams to remain substantially unchanged. Aspart of the Company's assessment and implementation plan, the Company is evaluating and implementing changes to its policies, procedures and controls. Financial Instruments. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU 2016-01), which requires that most equity investments be measured at fair value, with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net income. The ASU also impacts financial liabilities under the fair value option and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments. In addition, the FASB clarified guidance related to the valuation allowance assessment when recognizing deferred tax assets resulting from unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities. Entities will have to assess the realizability of such deferred tax assets in combination with the entities' other deferred tax assets. ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-01 on its consolidated financial statements. Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (ASU 2016-02), which increases transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. Upon adoption, lessees must apply a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. Financial Instruments . In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13). The standard changes the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the timing of adoption and impact of ASU 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements. Statement of Cash Flows . In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (ASU 2016-15), whichis intended to reduce the existing diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are classified in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years with early adoption permitted, provided that all of the amendments are adopted in the same period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2016-15 on its consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes . In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (ASU 2016-16), which requires entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. This amends current GAAP which prohibits recognition of current and deferred income taxes for all types of intra-entity asset transfers until the asset has been sold to an outside party. ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods therein with early adoption permitted. Upon adoption, the Company must apply a modified retrospective transition approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on its consolidated financial statements, as well as its planned adoption date. 8 Goodwill Impairment. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other : Topic 350: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04), which eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test. Under the amendments in ASU 2017-04, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual and any interim impairment tests performed for periods beginning after December 15, 2019 on a prospective basis, and earlier adoption is permitted for goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2017-04 on its consolidated financial statements. Stock Compensation. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation: Topic 718: Scope of Modification Accounting (ASU 2017-09) to provide clarity and reduce both the (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when changing the terms or conditions of share-based payment awards. Under ASU 2017-09, modification accounting is required to be applied unless all of the following are the same immediately before and after the change: 1.The award's fair value (or calculated value or intrinsic value, if those measurement methods are used). 2.The award's vesting conditions. 3.The award's classification as an equity or liability instrument. ASU 2017-09 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017 on a prospective basis, and early adoption is permitted. The Company has evaluated the impact of its pending adoption of ASU 2017-09 and does not expect that this guidance will have a significant impact on its financial statements. Although there are several other new accounting pronouncements issued or proposed by the FASB, which the Company has adopted or will adopt, as applicable, the Company does not believe any of these accounting pronouncements has had or will have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or operating results. NOTE 2. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which the Company purchases products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Sixth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On August 30, 2016, the Company entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the WSA. The Sixth Amendment modified certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for the Company's microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five -year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. The Company and GF also agreed to establish a comprehensive framework for technology collaboration for the 7nm technology node. The Sixth Amendment also provides the Company a limited waiver with rights to contract with another wafer foundry with respect to certain products in the 14nm and 7nm technology nodes and gives the Company greater flexibility in sourcing foundry services across its product portfolio. In consideration for these rights, the Company agreed to pay GF $100 million in installments starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016 through the third fiscal quarter of 2017. During the second fiscal quarter of 2017, the Company paid GF $25 million and, as of July1, 2017 , the Company had paid GF $75 million in aggregate. Starting in 2017 and continuing through 2020, the Company also agreed to make quarterly payments to GF based on the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry. Further, for each calendar year during the term of the Sixth Amendment, the Company and GF agreed to annual wafer purchase targets that increase from 2016 through 2020. If the Company does not meet the annual wafer purchase target for any calendar year, the Company will be required to pay to GF a portion of the difference between the Company's actual wafer purchases and the wafer purchase target for that year. The annual targets were established based on the Company's business and market expectations and took into account the limited waiver it received for certain products. As of July1, 2017 , the Company expected to meet its 2017 wafer purchase target. The Company and GF also agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased during 2016 and established a framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2017 to 2020. The Company and GF have agreed on pricing for wafer purchases for 2017. The Company's total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing, research and development activities and other for the quarters ended July1, 2017 and June25, 2016 were $266 million and $85 million , respectively. The Company's total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing, research and development activities and other for the six months ended July 1, 2017 and June25, 2016 were $442 million and $293 million , respectively. As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount of prepayment and other receivables related to GF was $7 million and $32 million , respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables - related parties on its condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount 9 payable to GF was $229 million and $255 million , respectively, included in Payables to related parties on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. Warrant Agreement . Also on August 30, 2016, in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, the Company entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala). Under the Warrant Agreement, WCH and its permitted assigns are entitled to purchase 75 million shares of the Company's common stock (the Warrant Shares) at a purchase price of $5.98 per share. The warrant is exercisable in whole or in part until February 29, 2020, provided that the maximum number of Warrant Shares that may be exercised prior to the one-year anniversary of the Warrant Agreement cannot exceed 50 million . The warrant will be fully exercisable as of August 30, 2017. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Warrant Agreement will only be exercisable to the extent that Mubadala does not beneficially own, either directly through any other entities directly and indirectly owned by Mubadala or its subsidiaries, an aggregate of more than 19.99% of the Company's outstanding capital stock after any such exercise. GF continues to be a related party of the Company because Mubadala and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech, a party to the WSA) are affiliated with WCH, the Company's largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. NOTE 3. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Accounts Receivable, net As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016, Accounts receivables, net included unbilled accounts receivables of $45 million and $37 million , respectively.Unbilled accounts receivable represent revenue recognized but not billed as payments are deferred by customers until certain contractual milestones are met. Substantially all unbilled accounts receivable are expected to be billed and collected within twelve months. Inventories Property, Plant and Equipment 10 The Company incurs costs for the fabrication of masks used by its foundry partners to manufacture its products. Beginning the first fiscal quarter of 2017, the Company capitalizes mask costs that are expected to be utilized in production manufacturing as the Company's product development process has become more predictable and thus supports capitalization of the mask. The capitalized mask costs begin depreciating to Cost of Sales once the products go into production, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of two years. Previously mask sets were expensed to research and development. Other Assets Accrued Liabilities NOTE 4. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd. (formerly, AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd.), and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd. (formerly, Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd.), to affiliates of Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd. (formerly, Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.) (TFME), a Chinese joint stock company, to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV). As a result of the sale, TFME's affiliates own 85% of the equity interests in the ATMP JV while certain of the Company's subsidiaries own the remaining 15% . The Company has no obligation to fund the ATMP JV. The Company accounts for its equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to its significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the carrying value of the Company's investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $58 million and $59 million , respectively. Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is a related party of the Company. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and packaging (ATMP) services to the Company. The Company currently pays the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. The Company's total purchases from the ATMP JV during the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 amounted to approximately $105 million and $201 million , respectively. The Company's total purchases from the ATMP JV during the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 amounted to approximately $66 million . As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount payable to the ATMP JV was $145 million and $128 million , respectively, included in Payables to related parties on its condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 , the Company recorded $3 million and $5 million , respectively, in Equity loss in investee on its condensed consolidated statements of operations, which included certain expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the ATMP JV. During the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 , the Company recorded a loss of $3 million , in Equity loss in investee on its condensed consolidated statements of operations, which included certain expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of the ATMP JV. NOTE 5. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, the Company and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner), formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the THATIC JV). The Company's equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded 11 by the Company's contribution of certain of its patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the THATIC JV's operations. The Company has no obligations to fund the THATIC JV. The Company concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by JV Partner. The Company determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2, as the Company does not have unilateral power to direct selling and marketing, manufacturing and product development activities related to the THATIC JV's products. Accordingly, the Company will not consolidate either of these entities and therefore accounts for its investments in the THATIC JV under the equity method of accounting. The THATIC JV is a related party of the Company. In February 2016, the Company licensed certain of its intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the THATIC JV for a total of approximately $293 million in license fee payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. The Company also expects to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV's products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. The Company will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. In March 2017, the Company entered into a development and intellectual property agreement with THATIC JV, and also expects to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV's products to be developed on the basis of such agreement. The Company will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. The Company recognizes income related to the Licensed IP over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires the Company's continuing involvement in the product development process. Royalty payments will be recognized in income once earned. The Company will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 , the Company recognized $25 million and $52 million licensing gain associated with the Licensed IP, respectively, and development fees of $6 million and $10 million , respectively, as a credit to research and development expenses. During the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 , the Company recognized $26 million and $33 million licensing gain, respectively. No development fee credit associated with these agreements was recognized by the Company during the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 . No royalty income was recognized by the Company during the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 and June25, 2016 . The Company's total exposure to losses through its investment in the THATIC JV is limited to the Company's investment in the THATIC JV, which was zero as of July1, 2017 . The Company's share in the net losses of the THATIC JV for the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 and June25, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of operations since the Company is not obligated to fund the THATIC JV's losses in excess of the Company's investment in the THATIC JV. The Company's receivable from THATIC JV was $2 million and zero as of July1, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables - related parties on its condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of July1, 2017 , the total assets and liabilities of the THATIC JV were not material. NOTE 6. Debt and Secured Revolving Line of Credit Debt 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 On September 14, 2016, the Company issued $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 ( 2.125% Notes). The Company also granted an option to the underwriters to purchase an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes. On September 28, 2016, this option was exercised in full and the Company issued an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of the 2.125% Notes. The 2.125% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company and will mature on September 1, 2026, unless earlier repurchased or converted. Interest is payable in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning on March 1, 2017. The 2.125% Notes are governed by the terms of a base indenture and a supplemental indenture (together the 2.125% Indentures) dated September 14, 2016 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2026 under the occurrence of one of the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2016 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock and the conversion rate 12 on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after June 1, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the Company will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock, at the Company's election. The first event described in (1) above was met during the second quarter of 2017 and as a result, the 2.125% Notes are convertible at the option of the holder as of July 1, 2017 and remain convertible until September 30, 2017. The Company's current intent is to deliver shares of its common stock upon conversion of the 2.125% Notes. As such, the Company continued to classify the carrying value of the liability component of the 2.125% Notes as long-term debt and the equity component of the 2.125% Notes as permanent equity on its condensed consolidated balance sheet as of July 1, 2017. The Company may not redeem the notes prior to the maturity date, and no sinking fund is provided for the 2.125% Notes. The conversion rate is currently 125.0031 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2.125% Notes(equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $8.00 per share of common stock). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest.In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date, the Company will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such a corporate event in certain circumstances. If the Company undergoes a fundamental change prior to the maturity date of the notes, holders may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their 2.125% Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2.125% Notes to be repurchased,plusaccrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. In accounting for the issuance of the 2.125% Notes, the Company separated the 2.125% Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amounts of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have associated conversion features. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the par value of the 2.125% Notes as a whole. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its book value (debt discount) is accreted to interest expense over the term of the 2.125% Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification. In accounting for the issuance costs related to the 2.125% Notes, the Company allocated the total amount of issuance costs incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative fair values. Issuance costs attributable to the liability component are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2.125% Notes, and the issuance costs attributable to the equity component were netted against the equity component in additional paid-in capital. During 2016, the Company recorded issuance costs of $15 million and $9 million , for the liability and equity portions, respectively. The determination of whether or not the 2.125% Notes are convertible must continue to be performed on a calendar-quarter basis. The 2.125% Notes consisted of the following: (1) Included in the consolidated balance sheets within Long-term debt, net and amortized over the remaining life of the notes using the effective interest rate method. (2) Included in the consolidated balance sheets within additional paid-in capital, net of $9 million of equity issuance costs. As of July1, 2017 , the remaining life of the 2.125% Notes was approximately 111 months . Based on the closing price of the Company's common stock of $12.48 on June 30, 2017, the last business day of the second quarter of 2017 , the if-converted value of the 2.125% Notes exceeded its principal amount by approximately $451 million . 13 The effective interest rate of the liability component of the 2.125% Notes is 8% . This interest rate was based on the interest rates of similar liabilities at the time of issuance that did not have associated conversion features. The following table sets forth total interest expense recognized related to the 2.125% Notes: 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 On February26, 2014, the Company issued $600 million of its 6.75% Senior Notes due 2019 ( 6.75% Notes). The 6.75% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March1, 2019. The 6.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 6.75% Indenture) dated February 26, 2014 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. On February 10, 2017, the Company settled $5 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.75% Notes with treasury stock. As of July1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 6.75% Notes was $191 million . 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 On August15, 2012, the Company issued $500 million of its 7.50% Senior Notes due 2022 ( 7.50% Notes). The 7.50% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on February15 and August15 of each year beginning February15, 2013 until the maturity date of August15, 2022. The 7.50% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.50% Indenture) dated August15, 2012 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. On February 10, 2017, the Company settled $3 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% Notes with treasury stock. As of July1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.50% Notes was $347 million . 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 On June16, 2014, the Company issued $500 million of its 7.00% Senior Notes due 2024 ( 7.00% Notes). The 7.00% Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Company. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2015 until the maturity date of July1, 2024. The 7.00% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.00% Indenture) dated June 16, 2014 between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. During the first quarter of 2017, the Company settled $26 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.00% Notes with treasury stock. During the second quarter of 2017, the Company repurchased $40 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.00% Notes for $42 million . As of July1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes was $350 million . Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes The Company may elect to purchase or otherwise retire the 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes and 2.125% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when the Company believes the market conditions are favorable. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April14, 2015, the Company and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. (AMDISS) and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended 14 and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). Fifth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On March 21, 2017, the Loan Parties entered into a fifth amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement (the Fifth Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. The Fifth Amendment amends the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement by, among other things, extending the maturity date of the Secured Revolving Line of Credit from April 14, 2020 to March 21, 2022, reducing the Applicable Margin (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement), reducing the commitment fee, lowering the minimum threshold of Availability (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) required to be maintained by the Company and AMDISS in order to avoid cash dominion, amending the borrowing base reporting requirement, amending maximum dollar limits related to supply chain finance arrangements, and reducing the amount of the Secured Revolving Line of Credit available for the issuance for letters of credit from $75 million to $45 million . The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $45 million available for issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable ( 90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million . The Secured Revolving Line of Credit is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties' accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. As of July1, 2017 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $42 million , at an interest rate of 4.75% . As of December31, 2016 , the Company did no t have any borrowings outstanding under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. As of July1, 2017 , the Company had $19 million letter of credit outstanding and up to $249 million available for future borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. The Company reports its intra-period changes in its revolving credit balance on a net basis in its condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as the Company intends the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days . As of July1, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with all required covenants in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. NOTE 7. Net Income (Loss) Per Share Basic net income (loss) per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Diluted net income (loss) per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive shares outstanding. Potentially dilutive shares include stock options, restricted stock units, shares issuable upon conversion of the 2.125% Notes and the exercise of the warrant under the Warrant Agreement. 15 The following table sets forth the components of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share: Potential sharesfrom stock options, restricted stock units, the 2.125% Notes and the warrants under the Warrant Agreement totaling 193 million for the second quarter of 2017 and potential shares from stock options and restricted stock units totaling 19 million for the second quarter of 2016 were not included in the net income (loss) per share calculations because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. Potential sharesfrom stock options, restricted stock units, the 2.125% Notes and the warrants under the Warrant Agreement totaling 196 million for the six months ended July 1, 2017 and potential shares from stock options and restricted stock units totaling 41 million for the six months ended June 25, 2016 were not included in the net loss per share calculations because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. NOTE 8.Financial Instruments Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities Cash and financial instruments measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis as of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 are summarized below: 16 (1) The Company did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level2 of the fair value hierarchy during the quarter and six months ended July 1, 2017 or the year ended December31, 2016 . (2) The Company's Level 1 assets are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. (3) The Company's Level 2 assets are valued using broker reports that utilize quoted market prices for identical or comparable instruments. Brokers gather observable inputs for all of the Company's fixed income securities from a variety of industry data providers and other third-party sources. Available-for-sale securities held by the Company as of July1, 2017 consisted of commercial paper. The amortized cost of available-for-sale securities approximates the fair value for all periods presented. In addition to those amounts presented above, as of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the Company had approximately $2 million of investments in government money market funds, used as collateral for letters of credit deposits, which were included in Other current assets on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These government money market funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these deposits. As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the Company also had approximately $16 million and $15 million , respectively, of investments in mutual funds held in a Rabbi trust established for the Company's deferred compensation plan, which were included in Other assets on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets. These mutual funds are classified within Level 1 because they are valued using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Their amortized cost approximates the fair value for all periods presented. The Company is restricted from accessing these investments. Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis. The Company carries its financial instruments at fair value with the exception of its debt. Financial instruments that are not recorded at fair value are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes. The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of financial instruments not recorded at fair value are as follows: (1) Carrying amounts of long-term debt are net of unamortized debt issuance costs of $22 million as of July1, 2017 and $25 million as of December31, 2016 , based on the adoption of ASU 2015-03 and net of unamortized debt discount associated with the 2.125% Notes of $297 million as of July1, 2017 and $308 million as of December31, 2016 . The Company's long-term debt is classified within Level 2. The fair value of the debt was estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The fair value of the Company's accounts receivable, accounts payable and other short-term obligations approximate their carrying value based on existing payment terms. 17 Hedging Transactions and Derivative Financial Instruments Cash Flow Hedges The following table shows the amount of gain (loss) included in accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) and the amount of gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) and included in earnings related to the foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges: The Company's foreign currency derivative contracts are classified within Level 2 because the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments in active markets, such as currency spot and forward rates. The following table shows the fair value amounts included in Other current assets should the foreign currency forward contracts be in a gain position or included in Other current liabilities should these contracts be in a loss position. These amounts were recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as follows: For the foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portions of the hedging relationship and the amounts excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness were immaterial. As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the notional values of the Company's outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $310 million and $138 million , respectively. All the contracts mature within 12 months, and, upon maturity, the amounts recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) are expected to be reclassified into earnings. The Company hedges its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions over a maximum of 12 months. NOTE 9. Income Taxes In the second quarter of 2017 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $3 million , consisting of $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $3 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $1 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits. For the six months ended July1, 2017 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $8 million , consisting of $4 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $7 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $3 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits. In the second quarter of 2016 , the Company recorded an income tax provision of $29 million , consisting of $2 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $2 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $2 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In addition, the Company recorded the tax effect of completion of the sale of a majority equity interest in two subsidiaries comprising $21 million of income tax expense in China and $6 million of withholding tax expense associated with a future repatriation of the gain generated in China by the Chinese portion of that transaction. For the six months ended June 25, 2016, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $30 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations and items identified above. 18 The Company has not recognized the tax benefit of future foreign tax credits associated with the withholding tax expense as the size and age profile of existing tax attributes does not allow us to satisfy the "more likely than not" criterion for the recognition of deferred tax assets. As of July1, 2017 , substantially all of the Company's U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income which, as of July1, 2017 , in management's estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. The Company's total gross unrecognized tax benefits is increased from $42 million in prior quarter to $58 million as of July1, 2017 . This increase is due to additional R&D unrecognized tax benefits in foreign locations . The Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of tax audits are highly uncertain. NOTE 10. Segment Reporting Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the Company's Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. The Company has the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics processors; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of its intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, the Company has an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. This category also includes employee stock-based compensation expense and restructuring and other special charges, net. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: The following table provides major items included in All Other category: 19 NOTE 11. Stock-Based Incentive Compensation Plans Restricted Stock Units In the second quarter of 2017 and 2016, the Company granted 1.5 million and 5.6 million shares of restricted stock units, respectively, with weighted average grant date fair values per share of $12.06 and $2.97 , respectively. In the six months ended July 1, 2017 and June 25, 2016, the Company granted 2.1 million and 6.4 million shares of restricted stock units, respectively, with weighted average grant date fair values per share of $12.18 and $2.86 , respectively. NOTE 12. Commitments and Contingencies Warranties and Indemnities The Company generally warrants that its products sold to its customers will conform to the Company's approved specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and service for one year. Subject to certain exceptions, the Company also offers a three-year limited warranty to end users for only those central processing unit (CPU) and AMD accelerated processing unit (APU) products that are commonly referred to as "processors in a box" and for certain server CPU products. The Company also offers extended limited warranties to certain customers of "tray" microprocessor products and/or professional graphics products who have written agreements with the Company and target their computer systems at the commercial and/or embedded markets. Changes in the Company's estimated liability for product warranty were as follows: In addition to product warranties, the Company, from time to time in its normal course of business, indemnifies other parties, with whom it enters into contractual relationships, including customers, lessors and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. In these limited matters, the Company has agreed to hold certain third parties harmless against specific types of claims or losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, third-party claims that the Company's products, when used for their intended purpose(s) and under specific conditions, infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, or other specified claims made against the indemnified party. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under these indemnification obligations due to the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim and indemnification provision. Historically, payments made by the Company under these obligations have not been material. Contingencies Securities Class Action On January15, 2014, a class action lawsuit captioned Hatamian v. AMD, et al. , C.A. No.3:14-cv-00226 (the Hatamian Lawsuit) was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual officers for alleged violations of Section10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.The plaintiffs seek to represent a proposed class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company's common stock during the period April4, 2011 through October18, 2012.The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual officers regarding the Company's 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period.The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On July 7, 2014, the Company filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs' claims. On March 31, 2015, the Court denied the motion to dismiss. On May 14, 2015, the Company filed its answer to plaintiffs' corrected amended complaint. On September 4, 2015, plaintiffs filed 20 their motion for class certification, and on March 16, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs' motion. A court-ordered mediation held in January 2016 did not result in a settlement of the lawsuit. The discovery process has concluded. Plaintiffs and defendants have filed cross-motions for summary judgment, and briefing on those motions was completed in July 2017. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits On March 20, 2014, a purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Wessels v. Read, et al. , Case No. 1:14 cv-262486 (Wessels) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the Santa Clara County Superior Court of the State of California. The complaint purports to assert claims against the Company and certain individual directors and officers for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks damages allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the Company and the individual directors and officers regarding its 32nm technology and "Llano" product, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to artificially inflate the price paid for the Company's common stock during the period. On April 27, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Christopher Hamilton and David Hamilton v. Barnes, et al. , Case No. 5:15-cv-01890 (Hamilton) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-01890. On September 29, 2015, a similar purported shareholder derivative lawsuit captioned Jake Ha v Caldwell, et al., Case No. 3:15-cv-04485 (Ha) was filed against the Company (as a nominal defendant only) and certain of its directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuit also seeks a court order voiding the stockholder vote on the Company's 2015 proxy. The case was transferred to the judge handling the Hatamian Lawsuit and is now Case No. 4:15-cv-04485. The Wessels, Hamilton and Ha shareholder derivative lawsuits are currently stayed. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. ZiiLabs Litigation On December16, 2016, a patent lawsuit captioned ZiiLabs v. AMD , C.A. No. 2:16-cv-1418 in the United States District Court for Eastern District of Texas (the "ZiiLabs Lawsuit") was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that the Company infringed four patents related generally to graphics processors and memory controllers. The complaint seeks damages, interest, and attorneys' fees. ZiiLabs filed several similar lawsuits against other companies on the same day. On the same date, ZiiLabs also filed a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission ("USITC") pursuant to Section337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 against the Company and several other companies asserting the same four patents ("USITC Proceeding"). The complaint seeks a limited exclusion order barring the importation of certain products that contain AMD memory controllers and graphics processors.Some of the Company's customers are also named respondents.On January18, 2017, the USITC announced that it would institute the investigation, entitled 337-TA-1037, In the Matter of Certain Graphics Processors, DDR Memory Controllers, and Products Containing the Same . Discovery is ongoing, and the target date for the USITC to issue a final determination is June 25, 2018.The ZiiLabs Lawsuit has been stayed pending completion of the USITC Proceeding. On July 7, 2017, ZiiLabs filed a motion to stay the USITC Proceeding pending finalization of a settlement reached in principle. The Administrative Law Judge granted ZiiLab's motion on July 10, 2017. On July 20, 2017, the Company obtained a license to patents-in-suit. Accordingly, the Company expects that the Company and ZiiLabs will, in the near future, ask the USITC and the Court to dismiss proceedings as to the Company. The resulting settlement obligation was not material. The applicable amount of the patent license will be capitalized on the Company's balance sheet in the third quarter of 2017 and amortized over its useful life. Dickey Litigation On October 26, 2015, a putative class action complaint captioned Dickey et al. v. AMD, No. 15-cv-04922 was filed against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Plaintiffs allege that the Company misled consumers by using the term "eight cores" in connection with the marketing of certain AMD FX CPUs that are based on the Company's "Bulldozer" core architecture. The plaintiffs allege these products cannot perform eight calculations simultaneously, without restriction. The plaintiffs seek to obtain damages under several causes of action for a nationwide class of consumers who allegedly were deceived into purchasing certain Bulldozer-based CPUs that were marketed as containing eight cores. The plaintiffs also seek attorneys' fees. On December 21, 2015, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which was granted on April 7, 2016. The plaintiffs then filed an amended complaint with a narrowed putative class definition, which the Court dismissed upon the Company's motion on October 31, 2016. The plaintiffs subsequently filed a second amended complaint, and the Company 21 filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint. On June 14, 2017, the Court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the Company's motion to dismiss, and allowing the plaintiffs to move forward with a portion of their complaint. The putative class definition does not encompass the Company's Ryzen or EYPC processors. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company believes that the potential liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. Other Legal Matters The Company is a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that arose in the normal course of business. With respect to these matters, based on the management's current knowledge, the Company believes that the amount or range of reasonably possible loss, if any, will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. NOTE 13. Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (the 2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on its ongoing efforts to simplify its business and better align resources around its priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan largely involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and included organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan were completed during the first quarter of 2017. The liabilities related to the 2015 Restructuring Plan recorded in Other current liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 were zero and $3 million , respectively. 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company implemented a restructuring plan (the 2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of its real estate footprint with its reduced headcount. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was completed during the third quarter of 2015. The liabilities related to the 2014 Restructuring Plan recorded in Other current liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets as of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 were $1 million and $4 million , respectively. NOTE 14. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The tables below summarize the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) by component: 22 23 ITEM2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans," "pro forma," "estimates," "anticipates," or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: possible impact of future accounting rules on AMD's consolidated financial statements; demand for AMD's products; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; future restructuring activities; the nature and extent of AMD's future payments to GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF) and the materiality of these payments; the materiality of AMD's future purchases from GF;AMD's ability to meet it's 2017 wafer purchase target; the expected amounts to be received by AMD under the IP licensing agreement and AMD's expected royalty payments from future product sales of China JVs' products to be developed on the basis of such licensed IP; sales patterns of AMD's PC products and semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products for game consoles; the level of international sales as compared to total sales; international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future; that other unrecognized tax benefits will not materially change in the next 12 months; that AMD's cash and cash equivalents balances together with the availability under that certain secured revolving line of credit (Secured Revolving Line of Credit) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries under the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, will be sufficient to fund AMD's operations including capital expenditures over the next 12 months; AMD's ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD's expectation that based on the information presently known to management, the potential liability related to AMD's current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, cash flows or results of operations; AMD does not expect to pay dividends in the future; a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMD's revenue in the future; and anticipated sales in the third quarter of 2017. Material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, without limitation, the following: Intel Corporation's dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit AMD's ability to compete effectively; AMD has a wafer supply agreement with GF with obligations to purchase all of its microprocessor and APU product requirements, and a certain portion of its GPU product requirements from GF with limited exceptions. If GF is not able to satisfy AMD's manufacturing requirements, AMD's business could be adversely impacted; AMD relies on third parties to manufacture its products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, AMD's business could be materially adversely affected; failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for AMD's products could negatively impact its financial results; the success of AMD's business is dependent upon its ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to its customers while supporting and coinciding with significant industry transitions; if AMD cannot generate sufficient revenue and operating cash flow or obtain external financing, it may face a cash shortfall and be unable to make all of its planned investments in research and development or other strategic investments; the loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on AMD; AMD's receipt of revenue from its semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon its technology being designed into third-party products and the success of those products; global economic uncertainty may adversely impact AMD's business and operating results; the markets in which AMD's products are sold are highly competitive; AMD may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service its debt obligations or meet its working capital requirements; AMD has a large amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial position and prevent it from implementing its strategy or fulfilling its contractual obligations; the agreements governing AMD's notes and the Secured Revolving Line of Credit impose restrictions on AMD that may adversely affect its ability to operate its business; AMD's issuance to West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH) of warrants to purchase 75 million shares of its common stock, if and when exercised, will dilute the ownership interests of AMD's existing stockholders, and the conversion of the 2.125% Notes may dilute the ownership interest of AMD's existing stockholders, or may otherwise depress the price of its common stock; uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of AMD's products could materially adversely affect it; the demand for AMD's products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for AMD's products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations; AMD's ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party intellectual property; AMD depends on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software and other computer platform components to support its business; if AMD loses Microsoft Corporation's support for its products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on AMD's products, its ability to sell its products could be materially adversely affected; AMD's reliance on third-party distributors and AIB partners subjects it to certain risks; AMD's inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel may hinder its business; in the event of a change of control, AMD may not be able to repurchase its outstanding debt as required by the applicable indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit, which would result in a default under the indentures and its Secured Revolving Line of Credit; the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect its business in the future; 24 acquisitions, divestitures and/or joint ventures could disrupt its business, harm its financial condition and operating results or dilute, or adversely affect the price of, its common stock; AMD's business is dependent upon the proper functioning of its internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt its business, processes and internal controls; data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise AMD's intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate and cause significant damage to its business and reputation; AMD's operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns; if essential equipment, materials or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture its products, AMD could be materially adversely affected; if AMD's products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, it could be materially adversely affected; costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on AMD; if AMD fails to maintain the efficiency of its supply chain as it responds to changes in customer demand for its products, its business could be materially adversely affected; AMD outsources to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of its product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services; AMD may incur future impairments of goodwill; AMD's stock price is subject to volatility; AMD's worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on it; worldwide political conditions may adversely affect demand for AMD's products; unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect AMD; AMD's inability to effectively control the sales of its products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on it; if AMD cannot adequately protect its technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, it may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses; AMD is a party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause it to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit it from selling its products; AMD's business is subject to potential tax liabilities; and AMD is subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as well as a variety of other laws or regulations that could result in additional costs and liabilities. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see "PartII, Item1A-Risk Factors" beginning on page 41 and "Financial Condition" beginning on page33 and other risks and uncertainties set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 25 AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, ATI, and the ATI logo and combinations thereof, are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and other jurisdictions. Sony is a trademark of Sony Corporation. Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements andrelated notes included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes as of December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015, and for each of the three years in the period ended December31, 2016 as filed in our Annual Report on Form10-K for the year ended December31, 2016. Overview We are a global semiconductor company with facilities around the world. Within the global semiconductor industry, we offer primarily: x86 microprocessors, as standalone devices or as incorporated as an accelerated processing unit (APU), chipsets, discrete graphics processing units (GPUs) and professional graphics processors; and server and embedded processors, semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products and technology for game consoles. We also license portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In this section, we will describe the general financial condition and the results of operations of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, "us," "our" or "AMD"), including a discussion of our results of operations for the quarter and six months ended July 1, 2017 compared to the quarter and six months ended June 25, 2016 , an analysis of changes in our financial condition and a discussion of our contractual obligations. We believe our financial results for the second quarter of 2017 reflect our continued financial growth and focus on executing our engineering milestones. Net revenue in the second quarter of 2017 was $1.22 billion, a 19% increase compared to the second quarter of 2016. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to a 51% increase in Computing and Graphics net revenue, partially offset by a 5% decrease in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue. The increase in Computing and Graphics segment net revenue was primarily due to higher sales from our graphics processors and our AMD Ryzen desktop processors. The decrease in Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment net revenue was primarily driven by lower sales of our semi-custom SoCs. Our operating income for the second quarter of 2017 was $25 million compared to operating loss of $8 million in the second quarter of 2016. Gross margin, as a percentage of net revenue, for the second quarter of 2017 was 33% compared to31%in thesecond quarter of 2016 due to a higher proportion of revenue from the Computing and Graphics segment as well as a richer product mix within the Computing and Graphics segment. During the second quarter of 2017, we delivered a number of new products. We launched our AMD Ryzen 5 desktop processors targeting the mainstream desktop market and our AMD Ryzen PRO desktop processors for the commercial desktop market. We launched the Radeon 500 series graphics cards based on our 2nd generation "Polaris" architecture. Apple introduced their newest iMac, featuring our Radeon Pro 500 Series graphics processors that enables ultra-smooth gaming, fluid content creation, and support for GPU acceleration across a broad range of applications. We also announced the world's first professional dual-GPU card, the Radeon Pro Duo, and our first graphics card based on the next-generation "Vega" architecture for machine learning development and advanced visualization, the Radeon Vega Frontier Edition. We launched our AMD EPYC 7000 series high-performance datacenter processors, previously codenamed "Naples", with ecosystem support from leading server members like Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Dell. This full family of high-performance processors for cloud-based and traditional enterprise servers is based on our "Zen" x86 processor core and offers a combination of processor core count, memory footprint, and I/O bandwidth. With respect to our balance sheet, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of the end of the second quarter of 2017 were $844 million, compared to $1.26 billion at end of 2016, primarily due to changes in working capital, largely driven by wafer purchases in support of anticipated sales in the third quarter of 2017. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist you in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year and quarter to quarter, the primary factors that resulted in those changes, and how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our financial statements. 26 Results of Operations Management, including the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses our operating performance using segment net revenue and operating income (loss) before interest, other income (expense), net and income taxes. These performance measures include the allocation of expenses to the operating segments based on management's judgment. We have the following two reportable segments: the Computing and Graphics segment, which primarily includes desktop and notebook processors and chipsets, discrete graphics processors and professional graphics processors; and the Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, which primarily includes server and embedded processors, semi-custom SoC products, development services, technology for game consoles and licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. This category primarily includes certain expenses and credits that are not allocated to any of the reportable segments because management does not consider these expenses and credits in evaluating the performance of the reportable segments. This category also includes employee stock-based compensation expense and restructuring and other special charges, net. We use a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. The quarters ended July1, 2017 and June25, 2016 each consisted of 13 weeks. The six months ended July1, 2017 and June25, 2016 each consisted of 26 weeks. Our operating results tend to vary seasonally with the markets in which our products are sold. For example, historically, first quarter PC product sales are generally lower than fourth quarter sales. In addition, with respect to our semi-custom SoC products for game consoles, we expect sales patterns to follow the seasonal trends of a consumer business with sales in the first half of the year being lower than sales in the second half of the year. The following table provides a summary of net revenue and operating income (loss) by segment: Computing and Graphics Computing and Graphics net revenue of $659 million in the second quarter of 2017 increased by 51% , compared to net revenue of $435 million in the second quarter of 2016 , primarily as a result of a 31% increase in average selling price and a 12% increase in unit shipments. The increase in average selling price was primarily attributable to an increase in average selling price of our graphics processor products and our desktop processor products. The increase in average selling price was primarily due to a shift in product mix of our graphics processors and a greater mix of sales of our Ryzen desktop processors. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to strong demand for our graphicsprocessors and Ryzen desktop processors. Computing and Graphics net revenue of $1,252 million in the first six months of 2017 increased by 40% , compared to net revenue of $895 million in the first six months of 2016 , primarily as a result of a 30% increase in average selling price and a 6% increase in unit shipments. The increase in average selling price was primarily attributable to an increase in average selling price of our graphics and desktop processor products. The increase in average selling price was due to a shift in product mix of our graphics processors and a greater mix of sales of our Ryzen desktop processors. The increase in unit shipments was primarily attributable to strong demand for our graphicsprocessors and Ryzen desktop processors. Computing and Graphics operating income was $7 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $81 million in the second quarter of 2016 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue, 27 partially offset by the related increase in cost of sales and $19 million increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Computing and Graphics operating loss was $8 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to an operating loss of $151 million in the first six months of 2016 . The improvement in operating results was primarily due to the increase in net revenue, partially offset by the related increase in cost of sales and $27 million increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $563 million in the second quarter of 2017 decreased by 5% compared to net revenue of $592 million in the second quarter of 2016 . The decrease in net revenue was primarily due to lower sales of our semi-custom SoC products and a decrease in non-recurring engineering (NRE) revenue . Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom net revenue of $954 million in the first six months of 2017 decreased by 1% compared to net revenue of $964 million in the first six months of 2016 . The decrease in net revenue was primarily due to a decrease in non-recurring engineering (NRE) revenue, partially offset by higher sales of our semi-custom SoC products. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $42 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to operating income of $84 million in the second quarter of 2016 . The decline in operating results was primarily due to a $21 million increase in operating expenses and the decrease in net revenue referenced above. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom operating income was $51 million in the first six months of 2017 compared to operating income of $100 million in the first six months of 2016 . The decline in operating results was primarily due to a $46 million increase in primarily datacenter-related operating expenses and the decrease in net revenue referenced above, partially offset by a $19 million increase in IP licensing gain related to the THATIC JV. The IP licensing gain was recognized for the entire first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 . We started to recognize the IP licensing gain at the end of the first quarter of 2016. Operating expenses increased for the reasons set forth under "Expenses" below. All Other All Other operating loss of $24 million in the second quarter of 2017 was related to stock-based compensation expense. All Other operating loss of $11 million in the second quarter of 2016 included stock-based compensation expense of $18 million, partially offset by restructuring reversals of $7 million. All Other operating loss of $47 million in the first six months of 2017 was related to stock-based compensation expense. All Other operating loss of $25 million in the first six months of 2016 included stock-based compensation expense of $34 million, partially offset by restructuring reversals of $10 million. International Sales International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 77% in the second quarter of 2017 and the second quarter of 2016 . International sales as a percentage of net revenue were 77% in the first six months of 2017 and 80% in the first six months of 2016 . The decrease in international sales as a percentage of net revenue in the first six months of 2017 compared to the first six months of 2016 was primarily driven by a higher proportion of revenue from domestic sales of our desktop processors, graphic processors and semi-custom SoC products. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our sales transactions were denominated in U.S. dollars. 28 Comparison of Gross Margin, Expenses, Interest Expense, Other Income (Expense), Net and Income Taxes The following is a summary of certain condensed consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated: Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue was 33% in the second quarter of 2017 compared to 31% in the second quarter of 2016 and 33% in the first six months of 2017 compared to 32% in the first six months of 2016 . The improvement in gross margin was primarily driven by a richer product mix within the Computing and Graphics segment, primarily due to sales of our Ryzen desktop processors and a higher percentage of revenue from the Computing and Graphics segment. Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses of $279 million in the second quarter of 2017 increased by $36 million , or 15% , compared to $243 million in the second quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an $18 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment mainly due to product engineering and design costs, a $15 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment due to higher datacenter related investments and a $3 million increase attributable to our All Other category as a result of stock-based compensation expense. Research and development expenses of $545 million in the first six months of 2017 increased by $60 million , or 12% , compared to $485 million in the first six months of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a $35 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment due to higher datacenter related investments, a $17 million increase in research and development expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment mainly due to product engineering and design costs and an $8 million increase attributable to our All Other category as a result of stock-based compensation expense. Marketing, General and Administrative Expenses Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $125 million in the second quarter of 2017 increased by $8 million , or 7% , compared to $117 million in the second quarter of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a $5 million increase attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, due to increases in sales and marketing activities, and a $2 million increase attributable to our All Other category as a result of stock-based compensation expense. Marketing, general and administrative expenses of $246 million in the first six months of 2017 increased by $24 million , or 11% , compared to $222 million in the first six months of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a $10 million increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses attributable to our Computing and Graphics segment and, a $10 million increase attributable to our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment, both primarily due to increases in sales and marketing activities, and a $5 million increase attributable to our All Other category as a result of stock-based compensation expense. 29 Restructuring and Other Special Charges, Net 2015 Restructuring Plan In the third quarter of 2015, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2015 Restructuring Plan) focused on our ongoing efforts to simplify our business and better align resources around our priorities and business outlook. The 2015 Restructuring Plan largely involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 5% and included organizational actions such as outsourcing certain IT services and application development. The actions associated with the 2015 Restructuring Plan were completed during the first quarter of 2017. The liabilities related to the 2015 Restructuring Plan recorded in Other current liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 were zero and $3 million , respectively. 2014 Restructuring Plan In the fourth quarter of 2014, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2014 Restructuring Plan) designed to improve operating efficiencies. The 2014 Restructuring Plan involved a reduction of global headcount by approximately 6% and an alignment of our real estate footprint with our reduced headcount. The 2014 Restructuring Plan was completed during the third quarter of 2015. The liabilities related to the 2014 Restructuring Plan recorded in Other current liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 were $1 million and $4 million , respectively. Interest Expense Interest expense of $32 million in the second quarter of 2017 decreased by $9 million compared to $41 million in the second quarter of 2016 primarily due to a lower overall interest rate and lower debt balance. Interest expense of $64 million in the first six months of 2017 decreased by $17 million compared to $81 million in the first six months of 2016 primarily due to a lower overall interest rate and lower debt balance. Other Income (expense), Net Other expense, net of $3 million in the second quarter of 2017 , changed by $153 million compared to $150 million Other income, net in the second quarter of 2016 primarily due to the gain on sale of equity interests in ATMP JV of $150 million in the second quarter of 2016. Other expense, net of $8 million in the first six months of 2017 , changed by $158 million compared to $150 million Other income, net in the first six months of 2016 primarily due to the gain on sale of equity interests in ATMP JV of $150 million in the first six months of 2016 and $7 million total loss on debt redemption in the first six months of 2017. Income Taxes In the second quarter of 2017 , we recorded an income tax provision of $3 million, consisting of $1 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $3 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $1 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits. For the six months ended July 1, 2017, we recorded an income tax provision of $8 million, consisting of $4 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $7 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations, partially offset by $3 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited directly to other comprehensive income, Canadian tax credits, and the monetization of certain U.S. tax credits. In the second quarter of 2016 , we recorded an income tax provision of $29 million, consisting of $2 million of foreign taxes in profitable locations and $2 million for withholding taxes applicable to license fee revenue from foreign locations partially offset by $2 million of tax benefits comprising the tax effects of items credited to other comprehensive income and Canadian tax credits. In addition, we recorded the tax effect of completion of the sale of a majority equity interest in two subsidiaries comprising $21 million of income tax expense in China and $6 million of withholding tax expense associated with a future repatriation of the gain generated in China by the Chinese portion of that transaction. For the six months ended June 25, 2016, we recorded an income tax provision of $30 million due to foreign taxes in profitable locations and items identified above. We have not recognized the tax benefit of future foreign tax credits associated with the withholding tax expense as the size and age profile of existing tax attributes does not allow us to satisfy the "more likely than not" criterion for the recognition of deferred tax assets. As of July1, 2017 , substantially all of our U.S. and Canadian deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, continue to be subject to a valuation allowance. The realization of these assets is dependent on substantial future taxable income, which as of July1, 2017 , in our estimate, is not more likely than not to be achieved. 30 Our total gross unrecognized tax benefits is increased from $42 million in prior quarter to $58 million as of July1, 2017 . This increase is due to additional R&D unrecognized tax benefits in foreign locations. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits will materially change in the next 12 months. However, the settlement, resolution or closure of our tax audits are highly uncertain. Stock-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, which we allocated in our condensed consolidated statements of operations as follows: For all periods presented, we did not realize any excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation and therefore did not record any related operating cash flows. Stock-based compensation expense of $24 million in the second quarter of 2017 increased by $6 million compared to $18 million in the second quarter of 2016 . Stock-based compensation expense of $47 million in the first six months of 2017 increased by $13 million compared to $34 million in the first six months of 2016 . The increase was primarily due to a higher weighted average grant date fair value of unvested restricted stock units in the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 , compared to the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 . The increase was also driven by the absence of the stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based restricted stock units with market condition in the first six months of 2016, as these awards were granted in the second half of 2016. GLOBALFOUNDRIES Wafer Supply Agreement. The Wafer Supply Agreement (WSA) governs the terms by which we purchase products manufactured by GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF). Sixth Amendment to Wafer Supply Agreement . On August 30, 2016, we entered into a sixth amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to the WSA. The Sixth Amendment modified certain terms of the WSA applicable to wafers for our microprocessor, graphics processor and semi-custom products for a five-year period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2020. AMD and GF also agreed to establish a comprehensive framework for technology collaboration for the 7nm technology node. The Sixth Amendment also provides us a limited waiver with rights to contract with another wafer foundry with respect to certain products in the 14nm and 7nm technology nodes and gives us greater flexibility in sourcing foundry services across our product portfolio. In consideration for these rights, we agreed to pay GF $100 million in installments starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2016 through the third fiscal quarter of 2017. During the second fiscal quarter of 2017, we paid GF $25 million and, as of July1, 2017 , we had paid GF $75 million in aggregate. Starting in 2017 and continuing through 2020, we also agreed to make quarterly payments to GF based on the volume of certain wafers purchased from another wafer foundry. Further, for each calendar year during the term of the Sixth Amendment, AMD and GF agreed to annual wafer purchase targets that increase from 2016 through 2020. If we do not meet the annual wafer purchase target for any calendar year, we will be required to pay to GF a portion of the difference between the our actual wafer purchases and the wafer purchase target for that year. The annual targets were established based on our business and market expectations and took into account the limited waiver we received for certain products. As of July1, 2017 , we expected to meet our 2017 wafer purchase target. AMD and GF also agreed on fixed pricing for wafers purchased during 2016 and established a framework to agree on annual wafer pricing for the years 2017 to 2020. AMD and GF have agreed on pricing for wafer purchases for 2017. 31 Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing, research and development activities and other for the quarters ended July1, 2017 and June25, 2016 were $266 million and $85 million , respectively. Our total purchases from GF related to wafer manufacturing, research and development activities and other for the six months ended July1, 2017 and June25, 2016 were $442 million and $293 million , respectively. As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount of prepayment and other receivables related to GF was $7 million and $32 million , respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables - related parties on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount payable to GF was $229 million and $255 million , respectively, included in Payable to related parties on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Warrant Agreement . Also on August 30, 2016, in consideration for the limited waiver and rights under the Sixth Amendment, we entered into a warrant agreement (the Warrant Agreement) with West Coast Hitech L.P. (WCH), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company PJSC (Mubadala). Under the Warrant Agreement, WCH and its permitted assigns are entitled to purchase 75 million shares of our common stock (the Warrant Shares) at a purchase price of $5.98 per share. The warrant is exercisable in whole or in part until February 29, 2020, provided that the maximum number of Warrant Shares that may be exercised prior to the one-year anniversary of the Warrant Agreement cannot exceed 50 million. The warrant will be fully exercisable as of August 30, 2017. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Warrant Agreement will only be exercisable to the extent that Mubadala does not beneficially own, either directly through any other entities directly and indirectly owned by Mubadala or its subsidiaries, an aggregate of more than 19.99% of our outstanding capital stock after any such exercise. GF continues to be a related party of AMD because Mubadala and Mubadala Technology Investments LLC (Mubadala Tech, a party to the WSA) are affiliated with WCH, our largest stockholder. GF, WCH and Mubadala Tech are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mubadala. Equity Interest Purchase Agreement - ATMP Joint Venture On April 29, 2016, we and certain of our subsidiaries completed the sale of a majority of the equity interests in Suzhou TF-AMD Semiconductor Co., Ltd. (formerly, AMD Technologies (China) Co., Ltd.), and TF AMD Microelectronics (Penang) Sdn. Bhd. (formerly, Advanced Micro Devices Export Sdn. Bhd.), to affiliates of Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd. (formerly, Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics Co., Ltd.) (TFME), a Chinese joint stock company, to form two joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JV). As a result of the sale, TFME's affiliates own 85% of the equity interests in the ATMP JV while certain of our subsidiaries own the remaining 15%. We have no obligation to fund the ATMP JV. We account for our equity interests in the ATMP JV under the equity method of accounting due to our significant influence over the ATMP JV. As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the carrying value of our investment in the ATMP JV was approximately $58 million and $59 million , respectively. Following the deconsolidation, the ATMP JV is our related party. The ATMP JV provides assembly, test, mark and packaging (ATMP) services to us. We currently pay the ATMP JV for ATMP services on a cost-plus basis. Our total purchases from the ATMP JV during the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 amounted to approximately $105 million and $201 million , respectively. Our total purchases from the ATMP JV during the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 amounted to approximately $66 million . As of July1, 2017 and December31, 2016 , the amount payable to the ATMP JV was $145 million and $128 million , respectively, included in Payables to related parties on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 , we recorded $3 million and $5 million , respectively, in Equity loss in investee on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, which included certain expenses incurred by us on behalf of the ATMP JV. During the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 , we recorded a loss of $3 million , in Equity loss in investee on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, which included certain expenses incurred by us on behalf of the ATMP JV. Equity Joint Venture - Intellectual Property Licensing Agreement In February 2016, we and Tianjin Haiguang Advanced Technology Investment Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity (JV Partner), formed a joint venture comprised of two separate legal entities, China JV1 and China JV2 (collectively, the THATIC JV). Our equity share in China JV1 and China JV2 is a majority and minority interest, respectively, funded by our contribution of certain of our patents. The JV Partner is responsible for the initial and on-going financing of the THATIC JV's operations. We have no obligations to fund the THATIC JV. We concluded the China JV1 and China JV2 are not operating joint ventures and are variable interest entities due to their reliance on on-going financing by the JV Partner. We determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of either China JV1 or China JV2, as we do not have unilateral power to direct selling and marketing, manufacturing and product development activities related to the THATIC JV's products. Accordingly, we will not consolidate either of these entities and therefore account for our investments in the THATIC JV under the equity method of accounting. The THATIC JV is a related party of ours. 32 In February 2016, we licensed certain of our intellectual property (Licensed IP) to the THATIC JV for a total of approximately $293 million in license fee payable over several years contingent upon achievement of certain milestones. We also expect to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV's products to be developed on the basis of such Licensed IP. We will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. In March 2017, we entered into a development and intellectual property agreement with THATIC JV, and also expect to receive a royalty based on the sales of the THATIC JV's products to be developed on the basis of such agreement. We will also provide certain engineering and technical support to the THATIC JV in connection with the product development. We recognize income related to the Licensed IP over the period commencing upon delivery of the first Licensed IP milestone through the date of the milestone that requires our continuing involvement in the product development process. Royalty payments will be recognized in income once earned. We will classify Licensed IP income and royalty income as other operating income. During the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 , we recognized $25 million and $52 million licensing gain associated with the Licensed IP, respectively, and development fees of $6 million and $10 million , respectively, as a credit to research and development expenses. During the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 , we recognized $26 million and $33 million licensing gain, respectively. No development fee credit associated with these agreements was recognized during the three and six months ended June 25, 2016 . No royalty income was recognized during the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 and June25, 2016 . Our total exposure to losses through our investment in the THATIC JV is limited to our investment in the THATIC JV, which was zero as of July1, 2017 . Our share in the net losses of the THATIC JV for the three and six months ended July 1, 2017 and June25, 2016 was not material and is not recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of operations since we are not obligated to fund the THATIC JV's losses in excess of our investment in the THATIC JV. Our receivable from THATIC JV was $2 million and zero as of July1, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively, included in Prepayment and other receivables - related parties on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As of July1, 2017 , the total assets and liabilities of the THATIC JV were not material. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources As of July1, 2017 , our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $844 million compared to $1.26 billion as of December 31, 2016. The decrease in the six months of 2017 was due to net cash used in our operating and investing activities as described below. The percentage of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held domestically was 93% as of July1, 2017 , compared to 98% at December 31, 2016. The following is a summary of our cash flows for the periods indicated: Our aggregate debt obligations of $1.42 billion, net of unamortized debt issuance costs and unamortized debt discount associated with the 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (2.125% Notes) as of July1, 2017 , decreased from $1.44 billion at December 31, 2016. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance along with our Secured Revolving Line of Credit will be sufficient to fund operations, including capital expenditures, over the next 12 months. We believe that in the event we decide to obtain external funding, we may be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. Should we require additional funding, such as to meet payment obligations of our long-term debt when due, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities, which may be issued from time to time under an effective registration statement, through the issuance of securities in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or a combination of one or more of the foregoing. Uncertain global economic conditions have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our business. If market conditions deteriorate, we may be 33 limited in our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs on favorable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $381 million in the first six months ended July 1, 2017 compared to $127 million in the first six months ended June 25, 2016 . The increase in cash used in operating activities was primarily due to changes in working capital, largely driven by wafer purchases in support of anticipated sales in the third quarter of 2017, partially offset by higher cash collection primarily due to higher revenue in the first six months ended July 1, 2017 compared to the first six months ended June 25, 2016 . Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $122 million in the first six months ended July 1, 2017 , which consisted of net cash outflows of $84 million from purchases and maturities of available-for-sale securities and $35 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities was $303 million in the first six months ended June 25, 2016 , which consisted of net cash inflow of $351 million from sale of equity interests in the ATMP JV, partially offset by a cash outflow of $47 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1 million in the first six months ended July 1, 2017 , which consisted of a cash outflow of $42 million to repurchase a portion of our 7% Notes and $11 million for tax withholding on the vesting of restricted stock, partially offset by a cash inflow of net proceeds from borrowings pursuant to our Secured Revolving Line of Credit of $42 million and $10 million for proceeds from issuance of common stock from the exercise of employee stock options. Net cash used in financing activities was $4 million in the first six months ended June 25, 2016 primarily due to $4 million net repayments of Secured Revolving Line of Credit borrowings. 34 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our consolidated principal contractual obligations, as of July1, 2017 , and is supplemented by the discussion following the table: (1) Amounts largely represent future fixed and non-cancelable cash payments associated with software technology and licenses and IP licenses, including the payments due within the next 12 months. (2) Represents estimated aggregate interest obligations for our outstanding debt obligations that are payable in cash, excluding non-cash amortization of debt issuance costs. (3) We have purchase obligations for goods and services where payments are based, in part, on the volume or type of services we acquire. In those cases, we only included the minimum volume of purchase obligations in the table above. Purchase orders for goods and services that are cancelable upon notice and without significant penalties are not included in the amounts above. (4) Includes our currently expected purchases from GF for the remainder of 2017 for wafer manufacturing and research and development activities and minimum purchase obligations for wafer purchases for years 2018 through 2020. We cannot meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond 2020 but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. (5) Total amount excludes contractual obligations already recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheets except for debt obligations and other liabilities related to software and technology licenses and IP licenses. The expected timing of payments of the obligations in the preceding table is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 On February 26, 2014, we issued $600 million of our 6.75% Senior Notes Due 2019 (6.75% Notes). Our 6.75% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning September 1, 2014 until the maturity date of March1, 2019. Our 6.75% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 6.75% Indenture) dated February 26, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before March 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of our 6.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 6.75% Indenture). On February 10, 2017, we settled $5 million in aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes with treasury stock. As of July1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 6.75% Notes was $191 million . 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 On August15, 2012, we issued $500 million of our 7.50% Senior Notes Due 2022 (7.50% Notes). Our 7.50% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on February15 and August15 of each year beginning February15, 2013 until the maturity date of August15, 2022. Our 7.50% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.50% Indenture) dated August15, 2012 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Prior to August15, 2022, we may redeem some or all of our 7.50% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.50% Indenture). 35 On February 10, 2017, we settled $3 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes with treasury stock. As of July1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.50% Notes was $347 million . 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 On June 16, 2014, we issued $500 million of our 7.00% Senior Notes Due 2024 (7.00% Notes). The 7.00% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations. Interest is payable on January 1 and July 1 of each year beginning January 1, 2015 until the maturity date of July1, 2024. The 7.00% Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture (the 7.00% Indenture) dated June 16, 2014 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. At any time before July 1, 2017, we may redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the 7.00% Notes within 90 days of the closing of an equity offering with the net proceeds thereof at a redemption price equal to 107.000% of the principal amount thereof, together with accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the date of redemption. Prior to July 1, 2019, we may redeem some or all of the 7.00% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a "make whole" premium (as set forth in the 7.00% Indenture). Starting July 1, 2019, we may redeem our 7.00% Notes for cash at the following specified prices plus accrued and unpaid interest: During the first quarter of 2017, we settled $26 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes with treasury stock. During the second quarter of 2017, we repurchased $40 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes for $42 million. As of July1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 7.00% Notes was $350 million . 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 On September 14, 2016, we issued $700 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes. We also granted an option to the underwriters to purchase up to an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes. On September 28, 2016, this option was exercised in full and we issued an additional $105 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes. Our 2.125% Notes are our general unsecured senior obligations and will mature on September 1, 2026, unless earlier repurchased or converted. Interest is payable in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year beginning on March 1, 2017. Our 2.125% Notes are governed by the terms of a base indenture and a supplemental indenture (together the 2.125% Indentures) dated September 14, 2016 between us and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding June 1, 2026 under the occurrence of one of the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2016 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after June 1, 2026 until the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the our common stock, at our election. The first event described in (1) above was met during the second quarter of 2017 and as a result, the 2.125% Notes are convertible at the option of the holder as of July 1, 2017 and remain convertible until September 30, 2017. Our current intent is to deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion of the 2.125% Notes. As such, 36 we continued to classify the carrying value of the liability component of the 2.125% Notes as long-term debt and the equity component of the 2.125% Notes as permanent equity on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of July 1, 2017. We may not redeem the notes prior to the maturity date, and no sinking fund is provided for the 2.125% Notes. The conversion rate is currently 125.0031shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2.125% Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $8.00per share of common stock). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest.In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date, we will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its notes in connection with such a corporate event in certain circumstances. If we undergo a fundamental change prior to the maturity date of the notes, holders may require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of their 2.125% Notes at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2.125% Notes to be repurchased,plusaccrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. As of July1, 2017 , the outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 2.125% Notes was $805 million. Potential Repurchase of Outstanding Notes We may elect to purchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes and 2.125% Notes with cash, stock or other assets from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions, either directly or through intermediaries, or by tender offer when we believe the market conditions are favorable. Secured Revolving Line of Credit Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On April14, 2015, AMD and its subsidiaries, AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. (AMDISS) and ATI Technologies ULC (collectively, the Loan Parties), entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement (the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders (the Lenders) and Bank of America, N.A., acting as agent for the Lenders (the Agent). Fifth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement On March 21, 2017, the Loan Parties entered into a fifth amendment to the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement (the Fifth Amendment) by and among the Loan Parties, the financial institutions party thereto from time to time as lenders and the Agent, which modifies the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. The Fifth Amendment amends the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement by, among other things, extending the maturity date of the Secured Revolving Line of Credit from April 14, 2020 to March21, 2022, reducing the Applicable Margin (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement), reducing the commitment fee, lowering the minimum threshold of Availability (as defined in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement) required to be maintained by AMD and AMDISS in order to avoid cash dominion, amending the borrowing base reporting requirement, amending maximum dollar limits related to supply chain finance arrangements, and reducing the amount of the Secured Revolving Line of Credit available for the issuance for letters of credit from $75 million to $45 million. The Amended and Restated Loan Agreement provides for a Secured Revolving Line of Credit for a principal amount up to $500 million with up to $45 million available for issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit are limited to up to 85% of eligible accounts receivable ( 90% for certain qualified eligible accounts receivable), minus specified reserves. The size of the commitments under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit may be increased by up to an aggregate amount of $200 million . The Secured Revolving Line of Credit is secured by a first priority security interest in the Loan Parties' accounts receivable, inventory, deposit accounts maintained with the Agent and other specified assets, including books and records. As of July1, 2017 , the Secured Revolving Line of Credit had an outstanding loan balance of $42 million, at an interest rate of 4.75%. As of December31, 2016 , we did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. As of July1, 2017 , we had $19 million letters of credit outstanding and up to $249 million available for future borrowings under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit. We report our intra-period changes in our revolving credit balance on a net basis in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows as we intend the period of the borrowings to be brief, repaying borrowed amounts within 90 days. As of July1, 2017 , we were in compliance with all required covenants in the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement. 37 The agreements governing our 6.75% Notes, 7.50% Notes, 7.00% Notes, 2.125% Notes and Secured Revolving Line of Credit contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement would likely result in cross defaults under agreements covering other borrowings. The occurrence of a default under any of these borrowing arrangements would permit the applicable note holders or the lenders under the Secured Revolving Line of Credit to declare all amounts outstanding under those borrowing arrangements to be immediately due and payable. Operating Leases We lease certain of our facilities under non-cancelable lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2028. We lease certain office equipment for terms ranging from one to five years. Total future non-cancelable lease obligations as of July1, 2017 were $271 million , including $226 million of future lease payments and estimated operating costs related to the real estate transactions that occurred in Austin, Texas; Sunnyvale and Santa Clara, California; Markham, Ontario, Canada; and Singapore. During the second quarter of 2016, we signed an amendment to the lease agreement associated with our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California so that the lease expires in December 2017. In connection with the amendment, the lease payments were reduced for 2017. During the third quarter of 2016, we entered into a 10 year operating lease to occupy 220,000 square feet of new office space in Santa Clara, California. Base rent payments commence in August 2017 and the total estimate base rent payments over the life of the lease are approximately $104 million . In addition to the base rent payments, we will be obligated to pay certain customary amounts for our share of operating expenses and tax obligations. We will also incur costs for capital projects on the new office space. We have the option to extend the term of the lease for two additional five-year periods. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations primarily include our obligations to purchase wafers and substrates from third parties, excluding our wafer purchase commitments to GF under the WSA. As of July1, 2017 , total non-cancelable purchase obligations were $516 million . Obligations to GF Our currently expected purchases from GF for the remainder of 2017 for wafer and research and development activities, and minimum purchase obligations for wafer purchases for years 2018 through 2020 are approximately $3.2 billion . We are not able to meaningfully quantify or estimate our future purchase obligations to GF beyond this amount but expect that our future purchases from GF will continue to be material. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of July1, 2017 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to our net revenue, inventories, asset impairments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Although actual results have historically been reasonably consistent with management's expectations, the actual results may differ from these estimates or our estimates may be affected by different assumptions or conditions. Management believes there have been no significant changes during the quarter and six months ended July 1, 2017 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting estimates in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December31, 2016 . We will perform an annual goodwill impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter of 2017 pursuant to our accounting policy. However, we will also test for goodwill impairment at any time during the year if there are indicators of impairment present. If there are declines in our market capitalization, business climate or operating results, we may incur impairment charges that could be material. 38